(es) mr president, i too would like to thank the countless expressions of affection and solidarity which i have received from practically all parts of the world, from all the institutions - and i see here the vice-president of the commission, mrs de palacio - and from many members of this house, from all the political groups without exception, after the bologna package was sent. i believe that the institutions must not be intimidated by these acts and that today more than ever we must continue to work for a united europe - taking into account the priorities which the irish presidency will present to us the day after tomorrow - for a constitution for europe; europe wants and needs a constitution, mr president, a constitution which must include all of us. mr president, i think it is important that, in the face of the terrorist threat, which affects us all equally - and i think it is a good moment to acknowledge and express, as a spaniard, our gratitude for the constant encouragement we have been receiving from the european parliament in the fight against the terrorist gang eta - we must remain united, and the response must also be that of all equally. and, as mr titley said, that response must be made calmly and serenely, without stridentity and by mobilizing all our efforts and determination so that freedom - and i would point out, mr president, that this is the home of the freedoms of the citizens of europe - is not savagely and with impunity attacked by barbarism, which is all that terrorist movements represent. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i wish to begin by reacting to mr titley's remarks. firstly, i should like to say clearly that he has my wholehearted sympathy and solidarity. we do not know yet who is responsible for the inadmissible behaviour in question. he mentioned that the house hears herri batasuna praising terrorism. i should like to say to mr titley, that, as an honourable member of this house, he has the irish presidency right now. he can check all the records of this house and if he finds even one word praising terrorists in my speeches, he should say so. i do not think he will find anything. if there is proof of that, he should bring it before the irish presidency.
(es) mr president, mr gorostiaga has never condemned any eta attack, no matter who the victims are. it has sometimes regretted deaths and has always justified eta's terrorist actions. that is precisely what is called the apology of terrorism and that is why i want to express my solidarity with mr titley, for what has happened to him and for what he has said here today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i am informed that on 29 december 2003, at approximately 2 a.m., the casal jaume i cultural centre in russafa, a district of valencia, was attacked by persons unknown. all casal jaume i centres are members of the acció cultural del país valencià association, whose goals are to study, support and promote the cultural heritage of valencia. acció cultural has more than 9 000 members. many young people are also members of casal jaume i centres. the following day a press conference was held in the centre and the reporters could see the damage for themselves. the secretary-general of acció cultural referred to 21 attacks since july 2001 on the casal jaume i centres in valencia and the nearby towns of llíria, carlet, sueca and vila-real. even the headquarters of the bloc nacionalista valencià party has been attacked. in valencia, there is continuing violence against parties and associations promoting and supporting cultural heritage and progressive values. all those attacks have been reported to the police. violence is now on the increase; some people have been threatened, others attacked. to date, the response of the government has been inadequate.
vice-president of the commission. (es) thank you, mr president. i would like to thank all the speakers and, first of all, i would like to thank mrs maes for the work she is doing as a responsible person and rapporteur on the safety of third country aircraft. i hope that we can quickly reach a compromise and that this accident will help us to speed up and overcome some of the reservations and difficulties raised by the council on the points i have mentioned before, whether they relate to the rapid transposition into national law or to greater transparency as regards the seriousness and quality of the safety and maintenance of aircraft by the various airlines operating in the european union. i think that there is a middle ground between what parliament's original proposal was - which was perhaps too comprehensive - and not giving any information, and clearly the commission supports, as i said in my first speech, greater transparency as to the real situation of airline aircraft, that is, seriousness in the monitoring of safety standards. i would like to say very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still some issues that need to be addressed in the coming years, but the establishment of the european civil aviation safety agency is a very important step forward. when we adopt this regulation for aircraft from third countries, we will have taken another very important step forward. in the context of the international civil aviation organisation, we must strengthen its controls, since in principle it is precisely the international civil aviation organisation which is responsible for monitoring how activities are carried out in the various states in respect of their aircraft. in other words, it would not be a question of the european civil aviation agency going to a third country to check how its work and controls are being carried out there. this task is the responsibility of the international civil aviation organization. it is quite another that in the european union we have the power to ensure that aircraft landing on our territory meet all the requirements and to control how those requirements are met on those aircraft. we must take a further step forward, in the sense that there are common rules at community level, that if a country prohibits certain aircraft from flying over or landing, that rule should be extended to the whole of the european union's airspace. if a country detects a certain type of problem in a particular aircraft, that information must be disseminated and passed on to all the countries of the union; and also that there are common rules on how these checks are carried out, on the percentage, finally, in the system. we must reach agreements to ensure that the whole of the union takes the appropriate measures and that they are applied throughout our airspace. the next point that has arisen today is the problem of passenger data transfers to the united states. and i want to clarify something that mrs ainardi has said, and that is that the united states does not request the sensitive data to which the honourable member has referred. so-called sensitive data - health, religion... - according to the data protection directive in europe, the united states does not claim it. this is something your honor needs to know. that's not the data that's going to be transmitted. the next question is about data transmission. ladies and gentlemen, we have reached an agreement which the commission considers to allow for the protection of the privacy of our citizens, because, as has been said before - i think it was mr poignant - we are in a tension between the security component and the privacy component. it is a question of resolving the tension between the two elements in a proper and balanced way. we have reached an agreement - among other things, thanks to this parliament, let us say it clearly - which includes, in the end, a series of guarantees demanded by the european union - reduction in the number of data, the type of data, limitation as to the purpose for which they are to be used, limitation in the time of their use, in short, all the elements that you are perfectly aware of - which allows us to say that, with this agreement, the fundamental rights of our citizens are guaranteed which are protected by our legislation, also with regard to the use that the united states will make of this information, while we help and cooperate in improving safety in the aviation sector and in the fight against international terrorism. i would like to thank parliament once again for its cooperation in the various steps we have taken. i think they've been very important. we can conclude them quickly with this directive on the safety of aircraft from third countries, and, ladies and gentlemen, once again i would like to express our sorrow for the victims and say that we must continue to work to improve safety in the aviation sector, first of all, of course, in european airspace, on planes departing from europe to other places, but also at world level, because, as much as we inform - and we certainly must do so - increase transparency in the information that tour operators provide to their customers, saying which company will carry out the transport, saying exactly which companies are working with, that is important and will improve the guarantee and information to our citizens and our passengers - there is no doubt that - european or non-european - we must strive to improve safety in air traffic and in international civil aviation. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, commissioner. this meeting is closed.
- the report by mr poignant, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transfer of cargo and passenger ships between community registers (com (2003) 478 - c5-0366/2003 - 2003/0180cod)) and the report by mr di fello lini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a framework for the fight against illegal pollution (com (2003) 92 - c5-0076/2003 - 2003/0037 (cod)) (com (2003) 478 - c5-036/2003 - 2003/0180cod))
(es) mr president, commissioner, as mr poignant rightly points out in his report, the commission put forward its proposal for a european ship register, called 'euros', as early as 1989, and the european parliament recently approved the sterckx report on the occasion of the prestige accident, calling for this possibility to be re-examined. i am aware that the member states do not want to give up their identity on the seas for the time being, but i am also aware of the advantages of all our vessels having a european badge, so i put forward the idea that the symbol of the european union, the crown of stars on a blue background, should be displayed at one of the corners of the flags. i think my british colleagues on the transport committee were offended by this. i would like to make it clear that my idea is not against your union jack. a flag has four vertices and yours has three available. i think it is very positive and has many synergies for all of us that european union ships are identified in all the seas of the world. (applause from some seats)
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to come here today happy and optimistic about these legislative advances and congratulate the commissioner and my colleagues, both rapporteurs and non-rapporteurs, and even congratulate myself, but as a citizen originally from galicia and since these legislative proposals are born - as we have heard here to the full - of the prestige catastrophe, they will allow me to make a different but - i hope - complementary reflection. i am glad that this tragedy, which the commission euphemistically calls an 'accident of great media impact', has prompted important legislative changes capable of criminally prosecuting criminal behaviour. but i am concerned that the idea may become widespread that by solving the problem of illegal discharges we solve more than half the problem of marine pollution by oil, since the commission claims that most of this pollution is not due to accidents but to deliberate discharges. i am also afraid that the future may make us forget the present and this is a catastrophe that has not yet been resolved, as is shown by the new wave of fuel that is now arriving on french shores or the 14 000 tonnes of fuel still locked in the wreck waiting for a solution. that is why i say that concern for the future cannot make legislators forget the present. the present one, ladies and gentlemen, is the three great questions which the citizens of my region, with all due right, still have and which have not received a european answer: compensation for those affected, environmental problems and the solution to the problem. i am glad that our catastrophe is making progress in community legislation, but i am also firmly convinced - and i hope to convince you - that europe must have the means to provide a european response to these disasters - which will continue to occur - which does not yet exist.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is extremely important and we are meeting the expectations of the citizens who are asking us for more maritime safety. we galicians are well aware of the problem, unfortunately, but i sincerely believe that we are on the right track. the commission has reacted swiftly and wisely and we must once again congratulate the commissioner, mrs de palacio, on her proposals. it is now up to us and, above all, the council to do so. i would also like to stress the important step we are taking on the codecision issue, by seeking from the outset to reach common positions with the council to speed up the much-needed entry into force of the legislative rules. i hope therefore that the council will accept our proposals, and i think that we must be firm from parliament, as our colleagues have pointed out, especially mr piecyk. i should therefore like to congratulate our rapporteurs - mr pex, mr poignant and mr di lello - on their efforts and contributions to supplementing and improving the commission's proposals on these essential deterrents. the sea belongs to everyone, and those who pollute it must pay for it, whether they do so intentionally or negligently, including criminal or criminal penalties that may even lead to prison sentences. and the european union must set an example and lead the world in this effective prosecution of criminal practices against the marine environment. we therefore also support measures such as the precautionary seizure of the vessel to ensure compliance with the sanctions imposed. we also agree with the proposal in mr pex's report that there should be a common european coast guard service responsible for monitoring this international and european legislation so that it can be fully complied with. we do not mean by this that we have to replace the national resources of the member states. we are talking about a complementary measure of supervision and coordination, and a genuine community system for monitoring the maritime traffic of dangerous goods by satellite, with black boxes, etc. another key issue for maritime safety, as has been demonstrated, is the control of flags of convenience. we must encourage and encourage european flags, and that is why i also share the view expressed in the report by my colleague, mr poignant, that european symbols should already be included in the flags of ships, as is currently the case in the european union with vehicle registration plates. with these reports, the european parliament is joining forces with the commission and contributing to making the european union safer at sea and better protecting the environment. the only thing that remains, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is for the council to approve them and for them to enter into force shortly.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, first of all i want to say to the honourable members that the fact that i am wearing a headscarf at the moment does not mean that i am taking sides in the debate on the veil, and certainly not because i am here in strasbourg, but that i am trying to protect myself against something that is happening, and that is that of the forty times i have come to this building over the last four years, more than twenty times i have left with a cold and a half, in some cases with a fever. i, mr president, take this opportunity to say that the building managers should do something, because i think this building is a little sick or at least it is making some of us who come here sick. and i assure you, it doesn't happen to me anywhere else. i'm having a problem here, and what can't be is that it goes from cold to heat and back to cold in a totally uncontrolled way, not to mention all the air currents that are in different parts of this building. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say that i am grateful to mr pex for his work, which fundamentally supports the commission's position. in this connection, i would like to say that most of the amendments are intended to clarify the text of the proposal for a directive and improve the text of the directive, and we therefore accept all of them, in particular nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12, 15, 18, 20 and 23. others may be accepted in principle, but will need some reformulation. for example, amendments nos 6 and 22, which concern the creation of a european coastguard. in its answers to parliament's questions, the commission has had occasion to express its views on this point, and we support the idea, but the budgetary and operational aspects of such an initiative will have to be studied in advance, and in particular the relations between this future coastguard, the maritime safety agency, the future agency for the management of external borders and the competent national structures that exist today and that may possibly evolve in the future. the commission will be determined to examine these complex questions, but we must say that it is not an easy matter and that it will take some time. there are, however, some amendments which cannot be accepted and we therefore reject them because they are redundant or because they do not correspond to the objectives pursued by our initial proposal. to conclude with mr pex's report, i have the feeling - i repeat once again - that we are very close, that parliament - once again - is backing us in strengthening maritime safety, and i look forward with great interest to the vote tomorrow, and i hope that parliament will adopt this report and this position at first reading as soon as possible, to give impetus to the debate with the council, where things are much more difficult. i thank parliament for the fact that this report is being discussed together with mr di lello's report and the framework decision, and i would also like to thank mr di lello for his work and support for the commission's proposals and for the determination, shared by all of us - parliament and the commission - to continue to fight against the scourge of pollution from ships, and in particular in the case of intentional discharges which - as i say in our text - account for more than 50% of the pollution of waters in the european union. so it is a key element. i would like to say, mr president, that we cannot accept the first amendment as it stands, given its non-legal nature. we would like to stress, however, that we are very sensitive to the support which is once again being given to our position on the community's competence to provide for the principle of criminal sanctions in the implementation of a community policy. this gives us the impression that parliament is supporting us in the appeal brought by the commission against the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law. i hope, mr president, that these two texts can be adopted and that the council can relax its position or at least the position of some of the member states, since there are other states of the union which fully support the position of parliament and the commission, and all these issues would culminate in the overall framework for strengthening maritime safety and combating pollution by dumping in european waters and coasts and exclusive economic zones and coasts, which is absolutely key to our policy over these years and which needs special attention. i would like to point out, in connection with the comments made by some of the honourable members, that the commission will continue to work to make the legislative proposals a reality, and that if the countries do not transpose, do not incorporate in a timely manner into their national law the directives adopted here in the context of the fight against marine pollution and in favour of maritime safety, we will not hesitate to go to court to demand that the union states implement them. the port facilities for collecting waste are also part of this struggle and are absolutely key to the implementation of these texts, which i hope parliament will support tomorrow. on the other aspect we are discussing today, the transfer of cargo and passenger vessels between community registers, i would like to thank mr poignant for his work and for the talks and contacts with the council, which i hope will eventually allow, if parliament supports the rapporteur's report and the amendments he supports, the adoption at first reading of this regulation, something absolutely key on the eve of enlargement, with a major impact on the maritime sector in particular. mr president, it is important to advance, supplement and update the existing legislation. i would like to say that the commission has accepted most of the amendments and i would like to thank mr poignant once again. the commission can accept amendment no 3 but we must reject amendments nos 1 and 2 concerning the incorporation of the union emblem in the flags of all vessels registered in the member states of the union, because it would be an obstacle to reaching agreement with the council at first reading and because it is not the appropriate legal instrument for taking such a measure.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, first of all i want to thank you for your words, and i hope that i can survive this time and get rid of another cold. on a more serious note, mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the two rapporteurs, mr seppänen and mr vidal-quadras, for all the work we have done together and the results, which i consider very reasonable, on the commission's proposals for directives on safety at nuclear installations and the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the discussions within the commission and in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy have shown a clear desire to contribute to the establishment of a community approach to nuclear safety in its broadest sense, i.e. covering both the safety of installations and the management of waste. there is no doubt that the european parliament's opinion will not only be a source of additional reflection on the commission's proposals, but will also provide important political support, given that we are facing some difficulties from some of the union's states in the council. it is particularly important that parliament should support the commission's initiative on the use of legally binding instruments to frame nuclear safety and radioactive waste management in the 25 states of the future enlarged europe. this is the only way to achieve general, clear and stable legal rules which will give a future perspective to the investments of the electricity companies and which will at the same time provide reassurance and information to the public on the conditions under which nuclear energy is used within the european union. as regards the proposal for a directive laying down basic obligations and general principles in the field of safety at nuclear installations, the commission has complied with the european parliament's request that nuclear safety be ensured also during the decommissioning process. this is a sensitive issue involving concerns about nuclear safety and the desire for fair competition in the electricity market. the commission proposal, which is legally based on the euratom treaty, makes it possible to meet parliament's expectations in a balanced way. the analysis of parliament's amendments clearly shows that the opinion to be sent to the council will make it possible, in particular, to avoid any attempt by some states to distort the commission's initial proposals. the commission may be somewhat flexible, but it does not intend to back down from the political objectives it set itself when drawing up the proposals. we therefore believe that it is essential to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available to ensure that dismantling operations are carried out under appropriate safety conditions. as regards the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, i take note of the proposals to amend the timetable for authorizing the establishment and putting into service of the final storage sites. the first discussions in the council have raised comments in line with this idea. it is clear that the two institutions consider the timetable proposed by the commission to be too ambitious. i still believe that the problem is not the proposed dates but that most of the member states have not made sufficient progress in their decisions and work. i do not mean that this is the case in finland, for example, which is making great strides and has taken concrete decisions, or in sweden, which has also made very important steps forward. the commission can also show a certain flexibility in terms of timetable, provided that we are talking about concrete and reasonable deadlines. this is what parliament is proposing: more time, but with specific dates. in that sense, we believe that this margin of flexibility is acceptable. the permanent storage of high-level and long-lived radioactive waste in deep geological formations enjoys international technical consensus that it is currently the best solution to isolate radioactive waste from people and the environment for the long periods needed. which doesn't mean we're not working on other solutions. the commission does not want to close any doors and the fact that this is the most appropriate solution today does not mean that it will be in ten years' time. we are therefore guided solely by the desire to ensure safe and sustainable management of radioactive waste in order to ensure effective protection of citizens. in this sense, an increase in research and development could be proposed if necessary, and we do not rule out other solutions, i insist, but on the contrary, we support further research in this field. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to confirm that the primary objective of the commission's legislative proposal is simply to ensure the highest possible level of security within the enlarged european union. and in addition to ensuring that high level of security, we want to make this matter more transparent to the public and, most especially, to this parliament. and also to deal with the problem of radioactive waste management in the nuclear sector, so that the various member states deal with this issue in a determined manner. i would stress that the application of this community legislation will provide the european community sector with stable and balanced general rules which will allow the sector to develop without discrimination or advantage to anyone. in this connection, i am pleased to note that the european parliament, the council and the commission are working together to provide the enlarged union with a genuine community policy on nuclear safety when we have it in other areas and when - as i said when these initiatives were presented - the commission put forward at the time (and parliament and the council approved) issues such as acceptable levels for bathing water in the european union, and yet there is nothing on this subject in terms of european standards. mr president, i would like to respond to mrs mcnally on a point raised at the beginning of this sitting. i would like to reiterate to mrs mcnally that the person who said that the kyoto protocol was dead was a colleague of hers in this house. i didn't use those words. what i have said and what i am saying again is that there are unfortunately serious risks that it will not obtain the number of ratifications necessary for its entry into force, which is another matter. it's others who draw different conclusions. what i have also said, and i want to repeat it here, mr president, is that the objective of the kyoto protocol - the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - is something we have to continue to work on and keep our commitments, which is another matter. that's the point. i would also like to reiterate that if, by some unfortunate coincidence, and i say this clearly, the necessary and appropriate signatures and ratifications were not obtained - which may happen, because some countries such as the united states, australia and it seems that now some others, perhaps because of the statements made in russia - the community would have to consider whether, in a new framework, that is to say, without the kyoto protocol coming into force, the measures we have taken to date are the best way to achieve the desired results - the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - or whether other possibilities should be considered. that is what i have said, what i am proposing and what i stand for. i think it is pure rationality, as it is also - and it is scientifically proven - that, unfortunately, the acceleration of climate change is associated with the tremendously harmful effects of greenhouse gas emissions. we must therefore continue to stand up, fight and work in europe to achieve an effective, real and sufficient reduction of these emissions. but we are not alone in the world; there are other countries on the planet, and we are only a percentage. unfortunately, the forecasts indicate that the next dramatic increases in global greenhouse gas emissions will not come from europe, but from other countries - and this has a positive aspect - that will reach levels of development higher than they have now and will therefore cease to be developing countries and become genuinely developed countries, something we should all want and support.
the rapporteur. {es) mr president, this so-called nuclear package, which we are discussing tonight, has its origin in two stimuli: the first, enlargement of the union and the second, without a doubt, the green paper on security of energy supply. enlargement has brought into the union a number of countries with fission power stations, a different safety culture from that of western europe and different technological criteria from those common to the fifteen today. the accession process has achieved all the security objectives that these countries were required to meet, and so we can now be absolutely certain. however, since nuclear energy is unfortunately not only considered in strictly technical or scientific or practical terms, but is often imbued with ideology and too often with emotion, it was absolutely essential that europe should provide european citizens with a regulatory framework of a european dimension to reassure certain legitimate concerns. this nuclear package meets this need and we believe it does so adequately. the green paper states as one of its basic conclusions that for the future of energy in europe we must keep all options open and i stress the 'all'. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is properly implemented. it is precisely because of the emotional factors to which i referred earlier, the existence of a legally binding european regulatory framework which guarantees us that nuclear safety is a common objective of the union, dealt with by a shared methodology and with the due guarantees that any anomaly or incident will be addressed in accordance with the latest available technical advances, all this, mr president, is what the nuclear package also provides to public opinion in the union. it has been discussed, mr president, whether directives were necessary for this nuclear package, or whether recommendations, guidelines or weaker legal figures would have been sufficient. i must say that if this softer level of regulation had been used, the whole exercise would have been worthless because what european citizens really need is to be assured of their requirement of the highest standards for this type of installation and that is only guaranteed by a legally binding rule such as a directive. as regards the two specific legislative initiatives we have examined, all the concerns of parliament have been duly reflected in our respective reports. the flexibility of the timetable for the establishment of a final storage facility for high-level waste, the avoidance of a double layer of european and national regulations overlapping and undermining efficiency, the public participation in this whole process and the most complete information to citizens have also been guaranteed and i would not want to forget to mention that in the directive on waste it was essential, in our opinion, that although deep geological burial in stable formations is the most universally accepted option today, the door should be open to other lines of research in the future. commissioner, this nuclear package is certainly a step forward and although you are feeling cold in your skin today, the way you have approached this problem shows that the fire of decision is constantly burning inside you. in any case, this nuclear package proves something else and that is that when there is a problem which is difficult to solve at national level, as one of our great spanish thinkers of the 20th century said, 'in europe the solution is found'.
the rapporteur. {es) mr president, at the end of her speech, my dear and respected colleague, mrs ahern, used the english word 'nonsense'. he has called the nuclear package, the work of the commission and, by extension, the work of the rapporteurs, insofar as we have tried, with good will, to perfect the work of the commission, nonsense. i repeat, in english "nonsense". i think, mr president, that this expression is excessively derogatory. i would never call mrs. ahern's ideas and opinions nonsense. on the contrary, mr president, i would say that they are errors, that they lack rigor, that they lack realism, but i would never call them 'nonsense'. i therefore ask mrs ahern, out of personal affection for her, to withdraw the expression 'nonsense' from the list of words in order to show parliamentary courtesy, which i think is, as i say, too pejorative.
commission - mr president, on behalf of the commission, i listened carefully to all the speakers. the diversity of views expressed was not surprising to say the least, and i would not have intervened if i had not thought that mr langen's speech was some kind of criticism of the commission on the subject: the commission asks a lot of questions on this subject but does not provide clear answers or, more precisely, delays in providing clear legal answers. so i would like to clarify this point a little between us. if the commission were able to give you a clear legal answer today, the problem we are discussing would have been solved. the green paper we published last year was designed to open up as wide a debate as possible on a very complex issue, and we in the commission feel that a year for such a debate with civil society, with you, with a number of representatives of economic and territorial interests, is not too long. the problem is indeed difficult and our debate shows it. it is clear that, on the political level, this question is at the heart of a specific european articulation for which we all have a somewhat different dose to propose, depending on our political preferences, between, on the one hand, the market economy, the virtues we recognize for competition and efficiency, and, on the other hand, a number of collective preferences in terms of social or territorial cohesion, which are as many dimensions of solidarity as, in varying proportions, we have each other in mind. so, politically, the problem is relatively clear and i don't really see any big differences in what you said about what the contours of these services of general interest or public services would be, if they were to be better defined at european level. the problem is obviously how to do it. this is an open question at this stage. is what we are doing at the moment, with sectoral directives and decisions taken on a case-by-case basis, as it were, in the field of state aid, sufficient as a legal framework? that is the question. you have recalled that the convention has debated this and has come to the conclusion that european law might be necessary, providing the legal basis on which there is now a debate in the present state of the treaty. this is the question we need to clarify. as i said in my introduction, the commission is considering various options. to reassure mr langen, i repeat that, following the debate which will end with the vote on a resolution tomorrow, the commission will provide its own positions before the end of this parliament. whether we reach a conclusion on an instrument which will involve the european parliament in co-decision or whether we reach a conclusion in another direction, i would remind you that the various options remain open to the commission at this stage.
commission. - mr president, the commission would first of all like to thank mrs almeida garrett for her very good work on the commission communication on the framework for regulatory agencies. the fact is that there are currently 16 agencies which have been set up under the current treaties, in successive waves, and to meet specific needs on a case-by-case basis. the 16 agencies are now characterised by their diversity, both in their mode of operation, in the tasks assigned to them and in their names. as we stressed in 2001, we believe that the creation of new regulatory agencies contributes to improving the implementation of community rules. the 2001 white paper proposed that the commission should define parameters, more precise criteria for the establishment, operation and monitoring of these agencies. the first objective of our communication, the one which is the subject of your debate, is therefore to initiate a debate with you and, moreover, with the council, in a common framework, on the creation, operation and control of the future regulatory agencies which we define as actively participating in the exercise of the executive function at community level. as your rapporteur has just said, their action is indeed at the very heart of the executive power. to avoid any misunderstanding - i will come back to this in my reply to the debate, particularly on the point raised by the rapporteur - this initiative does not concern the so-called executive agencies which are involved in the management of community programmes. in short, what is the point of the commission's proposal? it is a balance between, on the one hand, strengthening the integrity and unity of the executive function - and we know that this is primarily the commission's responsibility - and, on the other hand, the autonomy that these agencies must be able to enjoy in order to ensure that their action is sustainable. it's all about finding that delicate balance. the agencies, on the one hand, are designed to relieve the commission of highly technical tasks and to enable it to refocus on essential tasks. however - and you reminded mrs almeida garrett - the commission must retain the final political responsibility for the implementation of the rules, since this is one of the things for which we are responsible to you and we need clearly identified officials to be present in your assembly. it is this difficult balance that needs to be improved, clarified and formalised, given that regulatory agencies are increasingly responding to a need for expertise of increasing level in a number of areas, irrespective of short-term considerations. in order for this expertise to be constant and to ensure a certain level of transparency, a certain degree of autonomy and of course control is also required. it is this balance that we are seeking and we await your debate to see whether the way we have formulated this balance corresponds to your own capacity to compromise on these tensions which are inevitable but which we wish to manage in a positive way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. (es) mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the commission for presenting this communication and mrs almeida garrett for her report. the commission will note that there is substantial agreement between the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the text presented by mrs almeida garrett. in the area of regulatory agencies, there is a danger that we will fall into the american vice of multiplying agencies, which act in a totally autonomous manner and without real control by the legislature. paragraphs 2 and 3 of the resolution contained in mrs garrett's report are quite significant. in particular, when we are dealing with strictly regulatory matters, we are dealing with a legislative power and not an executive power. i would therefore ask the commission to avoid any reference to the assumption of legislative powers by these agencies when drawing up a text containing specific proposals. in other words, we should try to ensure that there is an interinstitutional agreement for any type of legislative delegation, with the council and parliament acting as the legislative power. secondly, we must avoid a proliferation of agencies, regulatory and non-regulatory, because it seems that at the moment they have become a kind of christmas present, given every year to governments, so that they can say in their respective capitals that they have achieved something, from an institutional point of view. as regards the legal basis and the tendency to use article 308, regulatory agencies would only make sense if there was a specific competence of the european union in this area, but not by creating special forms in order to justify that kind of creation. finally, it is important that regulatory agencies are subject to the same type of controls as the commission. i would say even more, as a result of his estrangement.
(es) mr president, commissioners, thank you very much for being here today, which i will use to talk about cotton, which is a problem of spain and greece, but which i would like the rest of europe to embrace. cotton in europe accounts for only 1% of the world's area and 15% of european needs. the remaining 85% is imported mainly from poorer countries, duty-free. on the other hand, there are other third countries, such as the united states, which is the world's largest exporter of cotton, or china, which dominates the market as the world's largest producer, the largest consumer of industrial cotton and the largest exporter of textiles. however, despite the insignificance of cotton in europe, certain statements have been made against community policy in this sector which i consider to be absolutely demagogic, since in the european union no export refunds are granted and imports are carried out freely, without duties. in particular, france led the approach of four african countries at the wto ministerial conference in cancun to abolish cotton aid and subsequently presented a european cotton initiative which seeks to promote a programme of action in favour of african cotton-growing economies by the commission and at the same time includes a reference calling for the reform of the cotton aid system, partly decoupling it from production. i would like commissioner lamy to listen to me: commissioner, i think that this attitude can only be interpreted as a nod or a gesture of rapprochement by france to these countries and to the strong interests of french capital in the african cotton sector through the french company for the development of textile fibres and its subsidiaries in africa, with the majority stake of the french state in its capital. this cannot in any case justify the belligerency of the commission in cancún, with a proposal which is not suitable for discussion in this forum and which unjustly condemns community policy in this sector. nor does it justify the reform of the community system of aid for cotton as proposed by the commission, the adoption of which would mean the social and economic death of many peoples, without thereby - and this is the serious point - solving the problems of competitiveness of the sector in africa. finally, as regards european agriculture in general, i would point out that the objective agreed at the g20 is to achieve agreement on the dismantling of export aid and a substantial reduction in tariffs and direct aid which distorts the market. however, it seems, mr lamy, that at the meeting with the g20 countries in brasilia, the european union accepted the demand to redefine the criteria for the green box in a more restrictive way. i would like to hear confirmation or denial of this news because, commissioner, agreeing to discuss it goes beyond the mandate you have been given, but above all it directly affects the very principles of the cap reform we approved six months ago and not just the cotton reform we are discussing. it is good that measures are being taken in favour of the least developed countries, but they benefit more from, and this is what they show, a higher return on their exports than from an increase in export volumes, which actually benefits trading companies based in the most developed countries. for example, sugar producers consider export quotas for sugar at guaranteed prices to be more profitable for their economies than the possibility of exporting without restriction. i invite everyone to think carefully about all this and to listen to those who theoretically benefit from all these policies.
(es) mr president, commissioners, commissioner lamy was saying this morning that we need doha to make the world a better place. i fully agree with this statement and that is why, just as i deplored the failure of cancún at the time, i must today deplore the lack of progress at the geneva meeting last december, even though i recognize that the mere fact of having resumed the talks is already positive, even though they have only served - as the president of the general council has acknowledged - to have a clearer view of the key issues and to know the difficulties we are going to encounter, as well as to reaffirm, on the part of the wto members, the commitment to the doha programme and, above all, to the multilateral trading system, which is already important enough. the time has now come to make our positions more flexible, so that we can move from words to deeds and do so at the pace required by the timetable set in doha. i therefore think that commissioners lamy and fischler should be thanked for their efforts to open up channels of dialogue with and among all, and for the work they have done in a clear attempt to push the doha agenda forward without losing sight of the legitimate interests of the european union. in this respect, i fully agree with the analysis and proposals made by the commission in its communication, particularly with regard to industrial tariffs and the need to achieve levels of commitment, especially from emerging countries, much higher than those proposed in the debray document and, in any case, equivalent to those of the european union. as regards, more specifically, the tariffs on textiles, the commission document talks about negotiating further reductions that are close to zero, a proposal with which i fully agree, provided that this implies - and i hope the commissioner will make this clear to me - that the european union will not be obliged to lower its tariffs as long as others have not reached a level equivalent to theirs. this morning mr lamy also referred to the european union's flexibility in environmental matters. i would like to ask you how far you intend to go with this flexibility, because there is no doubt that high environmental costs are one of the causes of the relocation of many community companies, but there is only one planet earth, and the regulations required to achieve environmental development at a planetary level must also be planetary.
the rapporteur. (es) madam president, i would ask you not to count the time for what i am about to say because i want, on behalf of all my colleagues, to express a small protest about this situation. it is not your fault, madam president, i know that, but it is an unpleasant situation, because our debate was originally scheduled for the morning, then it was moved to the early afternoon and now it has been moved to the evening and this happens to us very often in the fisheries sector. i ask you, please, that this should not happen again, because it obviously breaks the debate completely. i shall be speaking until 5 p.m. and i hope you will at least let the rapporteur speak in peace, because i do not think you will give the commissioner time to reply to me. you'll have to do it at 9. in any case, the members of the committee on fisheries think that this is not a good thing and we hope that it will not happen again in the future. thank you very much. my group asked for this report because it believes that the committee on fisheries should now be taking a more in-depth look at the study and analysis of specific fisheries, analysing their situation, their functions, their problems and their future. it could be done with different fisheries, but we decided to start with tuna for the simple reason that this species is the most globalised on the planet, both in its extraction, processing and marketing. this creates great interest and complex problems at the international level. there is a very clear fleet-industry relationship in tuna, and the role of the european union is fundamental as our market is the first in the world for this species, in which our fleet is also the most important in the world, and tuna accounts for 60% of the total production of canned fish, with the european union currently being the world's leading producer - with a production of some 400 000 tonnes of canned tuna. this creates very important jobs - and very localized ones - in peripheral maritime regions which are very dependent on fishing. for details, please refer to my report. we intend to make a technical and political reflection on the whole of the extractive and processing sector, to analyse its position in the european union and in the world in order to draw conclusions which we raise to the commission and the council as awareness raising and raising awareness about this important industry and, finally, to propose a series of concrete measures to deepen the defence of it. we have started by defining the species to which the report is addressed, which focuses mainly on tropical tuna, which make up 90% of what is processed by the canning industry. we advocate the defence of sustainable and responsible fisheries as the very basis of their future. we advocate a fishery that respects other species, such as dolphins. we support the dolphin-safe label of the apicd, the intergovernmental body of which the european union is a member; we call for transparency and clarity for the consumer; we denounce illegal fishing (iuu), the flags of convenience that shelter it and we support regional fisheries organisations and the role of the commission in them, we advocate the creation of new ones and we also call for the maintenance and expansion of the network of international tuna fisheries agreements, due to the highly migratory nature of these species and the guarantee that these international fisheries agreements provide for responsible fishing against private agreements. i believe that the consensus reached in the committee on fisheries of this parliament, in which the rapporteur accepted amendments from all the political groups and proposed concrete commitments, which have been incorporated, as is the case with the support for the amendments of the green/efa group, shows our sincere interest in supporting fisheries which must be sustainable both ecologically, economically and socially. i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation. in short, we are calling for the community fleet to be helped to remain competitive in the globalised world of tuna fishing, and we are calling for a specific register for this fleet, which will be structurally without aid following the reform of the fisheries policy. that the community flag be maintained in order to counteract the temptation to fly the flag of convenience; that a census be set up authorized by the respective rfmos and that illegal fishing and landings by these fleets be effectively controlled to curb unfair competition. the commission is also proposing to set up a special unit in the fisheries dg on large-scale migration with the means and staff to defend european interests in these forums at all times. the commission is also asked to set up a specific advisory committee on tropical tuna. the important canning industry is in need of a stable legal framework to allow better planning of the activity and to guarantee its investments. and the same requirements are being demanded of the community industry as of the industry which exports its products to our markets in order to be able to compete on equal terms in a community market which is very much liberalized and which continues to open up with concessions to third countries, especially to south-east asia. the commission is also proposing the creation of a network of european reference laboratories to monitor product quality and technical and health conditions, which will be subject to the strict rules on the origin of goods in the european union. in view of the globalisation of the tuna market, we are faced with very complex issues which require constant and priority attention, as is the case with the supply of raw materials to the community industry, and we therefore call for a new study of the real supply needs to enable the community administration to take the appropriate decisions at any given moment. our report, commissioner, is intended to help the commission to do the right thing. that is why we are asking for concrete things, such as a specific action plan, a global framework for structural support, a plan for defence against third countries and, to this end, the creation of units and advisory committees, as i have just said in my speech. this is our view, this is the view of the european parliament, and we now expect the european commission to take it into account and to act accordingly. we in the european parliament have started our work today and we shall now demand that our demands be met.
(es) madam president, i am afraid that the report we are discussing this afternoon, because it is an own-initiative report, does not have the appropriate legislative procedure in the commission and that the council of ministers will not take a decision on it. i think that is an excellent statement of the problems affecting the community tuna fleet and its processing industry. it is true, and we have acknowledged this many times in the committee on fisheries, that tuna fishing is the most globalised segment of the fisheries sector, and that the community market demands more product - both fresh and processed tuna - than its fleet and its canning sector can supply. we therefore believe that mr fischler's commitment to defend our tuna sector, our fleet and our canning and processing sector without any further ado is important, just as the governments of third countries promote action in favour of their own fisheries sectors. in this way, and by acting in this way, the commission will defend the european social model and the economic and social cohesion of regions like mine, which depend to a large extent on this industry. we join the rapporteur, mr varela, in calling on the commission to define a strategy for tuna, to preserve the most threatened species, such as bluefin tuna, and the most vulnerable fisheries. we want exploitation and marketing to meet sustainable and environmental criteria and food safety principles and therefore we want to establish control mechanisms at the frontiers so that imported products have the same phytosanitary guarantees as those coming from our own fleet and industry. this community strategy, which we are asking the commission to adopt, is all the more urgent when we consider the vulnerability of our sector to unfair competition and the precariousness of many thousands of jobs in our industry, most of them held by women. we therefore encourage the commission to continue to exert pressure at international level to enforce the principles of responsible fishing and to continue to promote controls and inspections, but we hope that the tuna will not be subjected to what we have seen on other occasions: what penelope fischler weaves at night, penelope lamy weaves during the day. we therefore hope that the criteria which commissioner fischler has set out for us today will be the ones that succeed.
- the next item is the question time (b5-0002/2004). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. the first part
- question no 12 by marialiese flemming (h-0822/03):on: violence against the elderlyviolence against elderly people, whether in the home, in nursing homes or in hospitals, is on the increase in all eu member states. what does the commission intend to do to combat the problem of violence against the elderly throughout europe? in view of the urgency of the situation, is the commission prepared to ensure that the member states of the european union adopt the necessary laws within four years to protect the rights of older people and to ensure their full participation in society?
the commission. mr president, in a europe where there is a serious demographic problem and we have a constant increase in the number of elderly people, it is clear that new policy problems concerning the elderly are emerging. i would remind you that the european commission has already taken account of the age factor in the directive proposed and adopted by the council in 2000 on the elimination of all discrimination on grounds of age at work. i would also remind you that article 25 of the charter of fundamental rights contains a clear reference to the right of the elderly to a life in dignity and to participation in economic and cultural life. when we come to the more specific issue of violence against the elderly, which is now a given that exists in most european countries and is largely related to the changing family model, but also to the population of the elderly that is constantly growing, i would say that it is very difficult to find a legal basis to legislate. i would remind you that during the discussions in the constitutional assembly a great deal of effort was made to incorporate into the new treaty a legal basis which would enable the european union to legislate on matters of violence in general, whether against women, children or the elderly. in the end, there was no agreement and there is no reference at the moment to the assembly's proposal for a legal basis for violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in terms of policies and programmes, the commission has the daphne programme, with a more holistic approach to violence, and we have some important initiatives in member states, which deal with violence against the elderly, and the commission's intention is to fund as much as possible the daphne programme.
as you know, this is a time for questions. the time must not be used for statements and debates, but we have listened carefully to mrs flemming. i do not know whether the commissioner wishes to answer.
commission. i feel that we can definitely identify areas of cooperation in healthcare policy. i would like to inform you that we have already started implementing the method of open coordination in the care of elderly people. this is a very good opportunity. member states are already working together in this area. although such measures do not take the form of recommendations, they reflect our final goal. i have tried to respond to the specific issue of violence. that is rather a different matter. it could come under problems in the field of healthcare, but it is a problem not merely confined to healthcare.
- question no 13 by reino paasilinna (h-0823/03):control of the blocking of spam e-mails: member states should have transposed the directive on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector by the end of october. on 5 december the commission announced that it was opening infringement proceedings against nine member states for their delay in transposing the directive. the majority of e-mails now consist of spam. what other measures does the commission intend to take to achieve the aims of the directive? the reliability of e-mail has been weakened and its development has stalled. how will the commission ensure that the member states take the necessary measures to put pressure on providers, for example, so that the main advantage of electronic communications, namely flexibility, can be guaranteed?
commission. it is true that unsolicited commercial e-mail, or 'spam', has reached worrying proportions: over 50% of e-mail traffic, according to many experts, is now 'spam'. the commission also agrees that 'spam' undermines not only privacy and consumer protection, but also productivity at work and overall productivity growth. consumer confidence in e-mail is falling, according to some studies. it is, however, a prerequisite for the successful development of e-commerce and the information society in general. the commission is reacting on several fronts. firstly, the european union has acted on the legislative front by adopting, in 2002, the directive on privacy and electronic communications – as mr paasilinna will know because he made a considerable contribution to the discussion. infringement proceedings were launched in november 2003 against a number of member states that had failed to take the necessary transposition measures. secondly, the commission knows that legislation is only part of the answer. the commission has discussed with interested parties a series of actions for member states, industry and consumers to take. these actions will complement legislation and seek to make the ban on 'spam' as effective as possible. they focus on effective enforcement by member states, self-regulatory efforts by industry, technical solutions such as filtering and security, and consumer awareness. on enforcement in particular, member states must not only put in place adequate complaint mechanisms, remedies and penalties, but also prosecute 'spammers' effectively and monitor 'spam'. cooperation between industry and public authorities is important in this regard. the commission is also taking steps to improve cross-border cooperation inside the union by meeting relevant authorities. since a large volume of 'spam' originates outside the european union, international cooperation will also be essential. several actions are under way in this regard. let me mention some of them. firstly the declaration and action plan agreed at the united nations world summit on the information society call for appropriate action on 'spam' to be taken at national and international level. secondly the commission will be hosting an oecd seminar on 'spam' on 2 and 3 february 2004 in brussels. thirdly, bilateral contacts are ongoing with third countries, including the competent authorities in the united states, since a large volume of 'spam' seems to come from us-based companies. these actions are the subject of a communication on 'spam' which the commission will adopt in the next few days. finally, the safer internet action plan and, to a greater extent, its likely successor, safe internet plus, will also fund activities relating to 'spam', including 'spam' sent to children. to conclude, however, let me stress one element: no one party acting in isolation will be able to solve the problem; success will depend on the firm commitment of all interested parties.
the commission. (fi) this "trojan horse" case mentioned by paasilinna is one of the most difficult ways of misusing the internet to harass citizens and restrict their possibilities of action. this is one of the issues that we intend to address in our communication which will be published very shortly, and also in the oecd seminar which will be held in brussels in february. i wish easter town could be part of it. at the same time, of course, now that the agency for cybersecurity is being set up - and paasilinna has already presented a report on this in parliament - this problem is also part of the whole. i am prepared to pay particular attention to this problem caused by the "trojan horse" as a spammer. innocent people are unwittingly being used as instruments in this illegal activity against the directives.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think i have to speak to the departments of parliament, where you don't know who the members of the commission are. if a member of the commission sends e-mails to 15 members of the european parliament, this should be considered as factual and factual information.
question no 14 by avril doyle (h-0832/03) subject: fluorine in drinking waterthe failure of the commission to examine the latest scientific and other evidence concerning fluorine in drinking water through the commission's scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment as promised in may 2000 has now become a threat to the credibility of the new drinking water directive. in order to protect the credibility of the new drinking water directive and the process by which it was developed, i ask the commission to make the revision of the proposed parameter values for 'fluorine' more transparent; this is necessary to allow a delayed but proper examination of the justification for allowing the addition of a very dangerous chemical substance to schemes for artificial fluoridation in the drinking water directive. pending a proper and comprehensive scientific review of artificially added fluorine in drinking water in the eu, the precautionary principle of the directive should be applied and its use in the drinking water of the member states should be explicitly prohibited.
commission. the scientific advice both from the world health organization and from our own committee takes that into account. fluoride can occur naturally. the water in the well in our own backyard, for example, had a very high concentration of fluoride. it can occur naturally to such an extent that you are recommended not to use it for your children because it could affect their teeth. however, it is up to each member state to set the rules, as long as they follow the recommendations and the limit values set in the directive. we have asked for scientific advice, which we follow very closely. we ensure that we are kept up to date with the latest scientific advice. as i said, as a result of the findings and the work done in the various working groups, and after calling together all the experts, we have no reason to change – at least for the time being – the recommendations on the limit values in the directive. if we receive new scientific evidence or see any reason to change, we will do so. otherwise, however, you will have to try to influence ireland on its policy on this issue because such policy is decided in each and every member state.
thank you very much, commissioner. we now move on to the second part of the questions to the three commissioners present today. question no 2 by mr vitorino
commission. i will answer the honourable member by giving my own example. i come from portugal, which before entering the union was supposed to be preparing to invade it. there were many fears surrounding the portuguese and the spanish too, mr president, if i recall correctly – the portuguese and spaniards were about to invade europe. in real terms, our assessment is that joining the union presents such a huge opportunity for economic development in those countries that join the union that migratory fluxes are limited. there are special rules written into the accession treaties concerning the free movement of workers during transitional periods. we therefore have the necessary legal framework to guarantee that everything will be handled carefully, swiftly and in a very reasonable way. i hope that message gets through to the british public.
- question no 16 by alexandros alavanos (h-0837/03) subject: extradition agreement between the eu and the usa an agreement between the eu and the us on extradition in criminal matters was signed in washington on 25 june 2003. it has since been published in the official journal of the european union (oj l 181, 19.7.2003, p. 25). can the commission give us any assurance that the united states has no right under the agreement to demand the extradition of a citizen of a member state whose offence has been dealt with by the courts of that member state but is time-barred under the national law of that member state, or the extradition of a citizen who has already been convicted in the case in that member state? has the agreement entered into force? if not, what is the commission's expected timetable? question to mr byrne
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 june 2003 two agreements were signed between the european union and the united states of america, respectively on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. these agreements were negotiated by the presidency of the council, although, as provided for in articles 38 and 24 of the treaty, the presidency was always assisted in the negotiations by the commission. as regards the question whether or not the extradition agreement confers on the united states the right to request from a member state the extradition of a person who has committed a crime in that member state which has already been prescribed by its law, the agreement does not lay down specific provisions on the matter. however, member states may invoke grounds for refusal relating to matters not covered by the agreement which are applicable in accordance with bilateral extradition treaties in force between a member state and the united states of america. this is the result of article 17 of the extradition agreement between the european union and the united states of america. the same applies to the second question of the honourable member, namely the situation of a person who has already been sentenced by the member state to which the request is addressed. none of the two agreements between the european union and the united states has yet entered into force, some member states have declared that they are obliged to respect their national constitutional procedures for the entry into force of the agreements and, in addition, written bilateral instruments between each member state and the united states of america are required for the implementation of the agreements between the union and the united states of america. these complementary bilateral instruments are currently being negotiated and once all the bilateral instruments have been agreed, they will have to be ratified by the congress of the united states of america.
- question no 17, by patricia mckenna (h-0801/03) subject: animal welfare and transport of dogs from ireland to spain dogs bred for dog racing in ireland are regularly exported to spain when their racing career is over. there they are treated very badly and the spanish authorities have little regard for the welfare of these animals. as the commission is probably aware, until 2002 a certain amount of eu funds was paid to the mint in ireland. can the commission, and more specifically the commissioner responsible for animal welfare, say what measures are being taken to ensure the welfare of these dogs, whose breeding was partly financed by the eu? can the commission state how many of these breeding cows, whose breeding was financed by community funds, were exported from ireland to spain and under what conditions?
commission. the honourable member is perfectly correct: there was funding for this and for the rearing of greyhounds before 1992. that ceased, as i said earlier, in 1993 for a number of reasons, partly due to concerns at eu level and in the commission relating to animal welfare considerations. i repeat that this is a competence issue. it is not within the competence of the commission or the european union to engage in inquiries in member states relating to issues that are strictly outside the competence of the european union. to seek to try and make a competence for the eu for such an endeavour merely because there was funding prior to 1992 – which has now ceased – is impossible to achieve. that means that there is very little that can be done. nonetheless, as i have indicated, in response to enquiries from the commission, the authorities in both ireland and spain, and the major animal welfare organisation in spain, have indicated that the situation has considerably improved, not least, in spain, as a result of the introduction of legislation in the areas of the autonomous regions and also because of the greater vigilance of the police authorities in prosecuting infringements.
- question no 18 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0808/03) subject: action against the netherlands for breach of the eu plant directive how long has the commission been aware that the netherlands is not complying with the eu plant directive? what measures has the commission taken and what further measures will it take and when to ensure immediate compliance? will the commission support the principle of compensation to british farmers and plant breeders who have bought diseased plants and seeds from the netherlands?
commission. i would like to assure the honourable member that i will have my services investigate, and prepare a proper response to, his supplementary question relating to ramorum dieback. i will then write to him in due course.
- question no 19 by john bowis (h-0813/03) subject: monitoring of cancer, tuberculosis and hiv/aids the commission is certainly aware of the importance of monitoring and networking in the fields of cancer, tuberculosis and hiv/aids. as a result of the changes to the health action programme, eu funding will cease and there will therefore be a gap in tuberculosis and hiv/aids until the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control in 2005 and a non-measurable gap in cancer. what steps has the commission taken to ensure that there are no gaps in the monitoring of these important disease areas?
commission. as i indicated earlier to mr bowis, i am aware of these concerns and can only stress that responsibility for this entire issue rests with member states. we keep a close watch on this, using monitoring and surveillance mechanisms. it will be the sort of issue to which i will be turning my mind during the upcoming discussions on this year's budget over the coming weeks, or perhaps months.
- question no 20 by josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil (h-0819/03):on: import of citrus fruits from the southern part of south america in november this year, spain was forced to close the import of fresh citrus fruits from argentina and brazil after it was found that the imported fruit was affected by diseases that would be very harmful to production in the eu, such as the so-called citrus fruit chanker - the most harmful disease to spanish citrus fruit production. spain introduced emergency measures to prevent the spread of that bacterium ('xanthomonas campestris (axonopodis) due to citri') and of two other fungal diseases, namely 'guignardia citricarpa' and 'elsinoe spp'. does the commission intend to take preventive measures to protect the eu against these diseases before the forthcoming citrus fruit season in southern south america, also in view of the fact that this year for the first time cases of citrus fruit flies have been detected in spain? question to mr patten
commission. the commission fully shares the concern of the honourable member as regards the threat to the community citrus crop caused by the harmful organisms intercepted by spain. following the notification by spain of the preventive measures it has taken against citrus fruits originating in argentina and brazil, and in accordance with the relevant provisions laid down in the community plant health regime, the commission initiated discussions on the issue in the meeting of the standing committee on plant health on 11 and 12 december 2003. in the meantime, the commission has also urgently requested from argentina and brazil additional technical information in respect of the situation faced by spain, and about which the commission fully shares its concern. the commission and the member states agreed to review the position at the next meeting of the standing committee on 22 january 2004. the commission will then consider any action ensuring that organisms harmful to citrus fruits – like citrus canker, from which the community is free – are not introduced into and spread within the community. the commission expects to achieve a satisfactory solution before the next import campaign.
(es) mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question i asked was very clear; the answer the commission has given was also very clear. the facts are absolutely clear and i agree with the commission on these. the diagnosis is not discussed; what is discussed now is the therapy that should be applied. i am glad that measures are being taken on 22 january, and i would like to know what kind of measures the commission has planned, because at the moment it is not a question of discussing, but - as in lenin's famous pamphlet - of what to do. what to do and as soon as possible, because the introduction of such a pest could have damaging and very difficult consequences if it is not stopped in time. i would like to know, commissioner, what the commission is going to propose at the meeting on 22 and 23 january: the specific measures it is going to propose, the specific analysis of the specific situation.
commission. as you know, a number of measures are available under european law to deal with such situations. i do not want to pre-empt the outcome of the discussions that will take place on 22 january, but there are a number of measures, including temporary emergency measures, applicable to the next import campaign. i am sure you are aware of the kinds of measures that are available. they are quite powerful, it is within the competence of community law to impose them, and these are the kinds of issues that will be considered in the event that the discussion discloses a need to put these measures in place. that is as far as i can go at this stage; i would rather not pre-empt those discussions.
- as they concern the same subject, we shall deal with questions nos 21, 22 and 23 in one sitting. question no 21 by mrs dorette corbey (h-0796/03) subject: obsolete pesticides: the commission has not yet published a report on the use of pesticides in the community. the problem of 20,000 tonnes of obsolete pesticides spread over more than 5,000 sites in ukraine needs to be addressed with modern environmentally sound technology, requiring a total budget of between us$60 and 100 million. is the commission capable of putting forward a concrete programme to solve this ukrainian problem with its present financial system? question no 22 by jan marinus wiersma (h-0797/03) subject: obsolete pesticidesthe problem of obsolete pesticides is a burden on the situation in ukraine, where there are 20,000 tonnes of such pesticides distributed in over 5,000 places as a threat to drinking water and the health of the local population. despite the adoption in june 2001 of the sixth environmental framework programme, which contains a specific section on pesticides, including specific measures to eliminate the risks associated with obsolete pesticides, three and a half years have now passed without any significant improvement in the situation. can the commission come up with a constructive financial solution or find a constructive financial instrument for ukraine? and question no 23 by robert goodwill (h-0798/03): the serious problem of obsolete pesticides in ukraine affects the health of the population and the environment, and urgent action is needed to deal with the more than 20 000 tonnes in at least 5 000 different locations throughout the country. in paragraph 74 of its resolution of 23 october 2003 on the proposal for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004, parliament referred to the risks posed to the environment by persistent organic pollutants (pops) and, in particular, by obsolete pesticides, and called on the commission to make the additional effort necessary to provide sufficient financial resources under the existing instruments for the elimination of pops in ukraine. in view of this, can the commission take steps to find an appropriate solution?
commission. we are aware of the threat to the environment and to consumer health that obsolete pesticides constitute in ukraine and aware, too, of the magnitude of the challenge that their elimination poses to that country. ukraine has taken a positive step concerning the elimination of some of the obsolete pesticides, in particular those that are persistent organic pollutants, by signing the stockholm convention regarding the elimination and reduction of those pollutants. the ratification of the convention is still pending. the commission urges ukraine to ratify the convention and to cooperate with the international community to work on this difficult problem. responsibility for dealing with obsolete pesticides is primarily for the country itself. while the commission is prepared to assist ukraine to the extent possible – and i should just note that our assistance to ukraine amounts to eur 126 million a year – current eu assistance programmes do not provide funding for the elimination of obsolete pesticides in ukraine. in fact, environmental issues have not been selected by the government of ukraine as a key cooperation area with the european union. however, tacis small project programmes could accommodate project proposals linked to the elimination of obsolete pesticides. taking into account the amount of pesticides to be eliminated, an eu contribution could only partially alleviate the vast problem. as a signatory to the stockholm convention, ukraine is eligible for funding from the interim global environmental facility, which is the financing mechanism of the convention.
commission. i totally agree with the honourable member that obsolete pesticides are a real and serious problem, not just in ukraine; they are a common problem in all too many post-soviet regions, as well as in some acceding and candidate countries. the estimate is that in ukraine there are perhaps up to 20 000 tonnes of these pesticides in 5000 locations and, as the honourable member knows, they can affect human health because of the contamination of groundwaters, soil, food and even air. the honourable member mentioned chernobyl: i was there recently. we have dedicated a lot of time and a great deal of money to that extraordinarily difficult and dangerous environmental issue. there we are working with the government of ukraine, which wishes to take that as a priority. it has not been easy even in those circumstances. what is more difficult for us, is to insist on our priorities through a programme such as tacis, in which the partner country is supposed to take ownership of the programme we are helping to support. i can assure the honourable member that we will continue to raise this issue and other environmental issues in the relevant subcommittee of the partnership and cooperation agreement. we will raise this issue during those meetings and if the government in ukraine says it would like us to focus some of our spending on this issue, we would be delighted to look at that. but the figures involved are very substantial. it is reckoned that it would cost at least eur 100 million for the elimination of the problem i described earlier, and that is why, in our judgment, it is probably more helpful to turn to the global environmental facility in order to secure an objective which the honourable member is quite right to highlight.
commission. the honourable member is entirely right to say that the issue we are discussing is of considerable concern to many groups in ukraine, and many of the environmental ngos which have begun to be active. the issue in which he has taken a particular interest – water contamination – has been of considerable concern to many people. i can only repeat that we will raise this issue with the ukrainian authorities. we will be willing, if they wish, to consider ways in which we could assist through the tacis programme. however, the need for funds for the overall elimination of pesticides in ukraine is beyond the present budgetary resources of the european union, though we can encourage ukraine to turn to other possible financing sources in order to deal with what is a horrendously difficult problem.
- question no 24 by mr pimenta question no 25 by glenys kinnock (h-0817/03):on the common foreign and security policyhow does the commission intend to respond to the requirement that the objectives of the common foreign and security policy be compatible with the development policy objectives of poverty eradication?
commission. i will be in a better position to answer that question after the meetings to be held in april as part of the asem process. in april, following the informal foreign ministers' meeting at tullamore in ireland, we have meetings with our asian partners in asem. we also have meetings with the indonesians and other partner countries. i hope they will underline the importance of our partnership. europe is the biggest provider of development assistance and the biggest trading partner in many asian countries, and it is certainly the biggest provider of external financial investment in most asian countries. i am not convinced that our political impact in those countries is as great as our economic impact and i hope we can change that. we have done a great deal to enhance our relationship with china. i am keen that we should do the same with india, and i hope that later this year we will be able to produce a strategy document on our relationship with that country. we have already produced a strategy document on our relationship with south-east asia. we are starting to move things forward and we have been helped in that by the parliament, which has supported our opening of five new commission delegations around asian countries.
- question no 26 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0825/03):on 9 december 2003, syria and the eu reached an agreement on an association agreement between syria and the eu, following the model of association agreements with the other mediterranean partner countries. it thus contains a political chapter, an economic and financial chapter and a social and cultural chapter. in this context, how does the commission assess the prospects for the agreement for the two parties? does it believe that the signing of the agreement in the near future will contribute to regional development, the creation of a positive climate of negotiation in the israeli-arab conflict and the democratization of syria? what is the commission's position on the diametrically opposed position of the united states, which led to the adoption by congress and president bush (just days before the agreement was reached) of a law containing economic and diplomatic sanctions and restrictions against syria, and does the commission agree with the reasons given by the united states for this policy towards syria?
commission. it is fair to say that as part of the negotiations we have had with syria, we have had an increasingly frank and comprehensive dialogue on regional political issues. that includes the situations in southern lebanon, palestine and israel, and the situation on the golan heights. i expressed hope because – and i hope i am not entirely fatuous in my geo-strategic observations – we want to see more movement from syria on a number of issues. i much prefer talking and trying to secure agreement, to reading what the syrians' positions are in the newspapers. so when i say 'hope', it is a small and fragile word. perhaps it carries too much baggage, but before i leave the european commission i would very much like to see the signing of an agreement with the syrians.
- as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 27 to 47 will be answered in writing. see the annex entitled 'question time'. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
(es) madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs prets, on her report, and also mrs maes on the opinion she has drawn up from the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. europe is unity and it is plurality, and it is in the field of culture that this plurality is most clearly and forcefully manifested. pluralism exists at european level, but also within each european state; and often these different cultures manifesting themselves within the states transcend the borders that limit the state territories. in this sense, the existence of different languages in the states, such as my mother tongue, catalan, which is spoken by ten million people, is a manifestation of this plurality. if we talk about cultural plurality, in cases where this culture also has a differentiated history, its own linguistic characteristics and a structural form of society, we are talking about stateless nations, a phenomenon which also exists in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this sense, i believe that the european union must ensure that this plurality within it is recognized, and that it must be recognized. some states, such as spain, recognize it in their statute of official status, but this state recognition does not exist with regard to the european union. it is regrettable that the european constitution has not made progress in this respect with progressive measures, as it has done in other areas. plurality is also an acknowledgement of the fact of immigration in the european union, which will be relevant in the future.
- madam president, the world is not a commodity. this is a slogan which could be used as a highlight of our debate. if the world is not to be a commodity, it is necessary to fight against the iron law of solvent supply and demand, which is winning every aspect of life. fortunately, the resistance against the world's disenchantment is organizing. we shall soon be among the few members of this house who will be meeting at the world social forum. languages, cultures, collective identities, peoples have an inalienable right to resist mac world. in this sense, the report before us is moving in the right direction. for nature and culture, diversity is life. the constant spring of life must be preserved, encouraged, stimulated. this can only be achieved if the principle of equal rights for all languages and cultures is established. i would like to call to witness here, as if before a court, the testimony of these millenary languages and cultures, which are still discriminated against in their respective states, but also in our european institutions.
(es) madam president, thank you to the commissioner for all her efforts in favour of european culture and thank you to the rapporteur, our colleague mrs christa prets, for the work she has done and, above all, for the large number of amendments she has had to deal with. my country, spain, is a country with great cultural diversity and richness and, as it cannot be otherwise, we are completely in favour of cultural diversity. however, i would like to say that we would have liked the report to have referred to the plurality of cultural identities in the european union rather than to non-uniform cultural identities. the approach adopted seems to us, in general, to be a little negative. and the reality is that in many european countries cultural identities are not uniform, precisely because they are plural, and we must not forget that this is one of our great riches. we must not forget that the right of each member state to define, implement and adapt cultural policies is subject to national legislation and therefore this must be done in accordance with their respective national legal systems. finally, i would like to say that, given the different positions and reservations within the european union on this subject, i think it would be right to leave it also to unesco.
(es) madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her initiative and also congratulate the commissioner on her speech - and allow me to take some notes from her speech, which i will use by quoting her when i speak about cultural diversity again. i am speaking in this chamber as a spaniard, as a member of the popular party and as a basque. i come from a country where we have our own language, an indigenous language besides spanish, which is basque, and which has a thousand-year-old culture, as does our language. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to preserve linguistic diversity. i also agree that the treatment of minority languages, including indigenous languages, must be monitored. in an increasingly united europe, in an increasingly globalised world, we must pay particular attention to cultural diversity. the wealth of europe - and what sets us apart from other regions of the world, as the commissioner has said - is undoubtedly our cultural diversity, and we must try to export this model. we must prevent the union from becoming a uniformity, and i would like to recall that the preamble to the draft constitution spoke of 'a europe united in diversity'. however, we must avoid the appropriation of cultural and linguistic diversity for political purposes. we must not allow the defence of a language or a culture, which belongs to all, to become a political weapon, a weapon of projectiles and even the possibility of discriminating and dividing one or the other. neither language nor the defence of a language can be a reason for discrimination. we should remember that this aspect is provided for in the draft constitution. let us respect cultural and linguistic diversity, yes, but let us not impose it. respect for diversity also means respecting those who speak another language. in the basque country, we must preserve the basque language, without a doubt, but we must not impose it or discriminate against those who do not speak it. some nationalist parties have tried to use language as a political tool and have moved from racial nationalism to linguistic nationalism. i believe that culture is everyone's heritage, we should all defend it and no one should appropriate it. let me end by quoting the preamble to the constitution, which states that 'peoples must be proud of their identity and yet fight closely together to forge a common destiny'.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, taoiseach, céad míle fáilte, which in my poor gaelic means 'a hundred thousand welcome': you are more generous than the spanish who say good morning in the plural. i want to welcome the arrival of the irish presidency because fate and timing have placed you right at the important political crossroads in the european union. it was you who initiated the process - i was then president of the european parliament - in dublin in march 1990, which led to maastricht, played a decisive role as the presidency in the stability pact and now have a huge responsibility. in addition to participating in the conference of presidents in december, my group's bureau visited dublin last week and we had the opportunity to have extensive discussions with the taoiseach and the irish government. i want to say on behalf of my group that we have at last found a reliable, experienced and serious interlocutor. and after what we have been through - a presidency full of political extravagances and media bragging - i think this is a very important step forward. we can rely on you, mr president-in-office of the council. i personally went to ask you to support us at the convention - you are not from my political family - but you supported us from the beginning in this challenge. in addition to your experience - from being a negotiator on the single act to participating in the subsequent reforms of the treaties - you know what you are talking about and have shown that you are serious. i would like to take note, first of all, of the irish presidency's resolute attitude towards the constitution, a prudent but firm attitude - 'festina lenta', as the latins used to say, 'you must hurry slowly and with caution' - and i hope that in march it will be able to make proposals to us. i do not want to get into a polemic, i think that parliament's position has also been a prudent, firm and serious one and i hope that with the irish presidency we will be able to unblock such an important issue. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european company register is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one. the second major challenge is the economic issue. the president has spoken of a very important issue in which ireland is an example for the present and the enlarged union, namely the development of the lisbon strategy. in other words, achieving, and this is what we socialists think, full employment, with gender equality - i want to congratulate the irish government for being the first to appoint an ambassador to coreper, we have already managed to enter the most sexist domain of the union, i congratulate it - social cohesion and technological development. you can also set an example in the field of solidarity, because we are now going to start renegotiating the financial perspectives, because if we are going to get married, we must also talk about the dowry and the marital capitulations, and that is where solidarity is going to be seen. in this respect, i would like to say, mr president, that we are clearly in favour of the commission making proposals which at least maintain the current effort. we cannot set much more goals with fewer resources and it is not acceptable for one or more governments to tell us that to do much more we have to put in much less resources. the commission's work and responsibility must be respected, and i hope that it will make proposals as soon as possible, and that the irish presidency will be able to interpret them. the stability and growth pact must also be given a future. i would like to stress two points in relation to international policy: firstly, the insistence of the president-in-office of the council on the value of human rights at the global level, and the importance of kofi annan's visit, because it is an affirmation of europe's commitment to multilateralism. i believe that the irish presidency also has the capacity and experience to take this forward. finally, mr president, an important point since we are in an electoral campaign and my esteemed colleague mr poettering has raised the matter. i think that the important thing, from the point of view of the european parliament and of democracy in europe, is that the irish presidency applies to the letter the simitis-cox agreement, which was concluded in an exchange of letters, according to which the candidate for the presidency of the commission will have to propose it to the council after the european elections. we are all in agreement on that point and i hope the irish presidency will respect it. in relation to the european elections, the issue is open, no one has won them and i would ask my distinguished colleague, the chairman of the european conservatives' technical group, to explain to me what you have in common with the british conservatives about europe. there are no majorities here. majorities in european democratic regimes, when there are no absolute majorities, are built on the basis of programmatic agreements. i accept that you defend a conservative programme, we defend a progressive programme, but everything is open and we are all going to win the elections, at least we too. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on taking up its responsibility in the matter of judicial enforcement of the stability pact. the rules must be the same for everyone, otherwise we cannot say that we live in a state governed by the rule of law. i regret, however, that some members of the college of commissioners have made statements referring to a two-speed europe, that is to say, proclaiming the division of europe precisely at the doorstep of its reunification. this is not the way the commission performs its essential role as guardian of the treaties. and, by the way, it is reasonable in a democratic system to ask the head of the executive branch to answer to the parliamentary majority. i would like to commend the clarity with which the irish presidency of the union has spoken about the two speeds. mr president-in-office of the council, we have high hopes for the next six months and we fully share the political priorities you have set and your commitment to the european constitution, which you reiterated here this morning. we believe that a process of reform is needed to modernise the union economically and socially, to guarantee freedom, security and justice to the people who live in or are in the union, and finally to define deeper relations with the united states in order to combat more effectively the new threats to our democracies and our fundamental rights. ireland is a good example of what solidarity in the union should be, which finds its highest expression in the policy of economic and social cohesion. my country, spain, also aspires to achieve real convergence with the european union average because, from our political philosophy, the objective is not to set up permanently subsidised companies, but to ensure that our level of development makes it possible to contribute to the internal economic balance of the union. we wish the irish presidency much success and good fortune in the months ahead.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, taoiseach, bertie ahern, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the president-in-office of the council began his speech in his own language, gaelic, as did you, mr cox, at the investiture ceremony, and the president of ireland. however, i cannot use my own language, catalan, which is spoken by more than seven million people, and the catalan government or the parliament of catalonia cannot address the court of justice in catalan on questions relating to the application of european union legislation, which constitutes 80% of our legal framework. i would therefore ask you, since you have a special understanding of the defence of the identity of a people and a country in europe, that the european constitution, which you have undertaken to promote, take account of the rights of these peoples, their languages, their cultures and also of the constitutional regions. there are many references to it and many reasons to defend it.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i wish the irish presidency luck and congratulate it on the motto it has chosen, 'citizens working together for europe', which is what we really need to tackle the problems we have to face. the irish presidency's active approach to the institutional mess is to be welcomed. europe needs and wants a constitution which recognises all the citizens of the european union. it is clear, mr president, that we must return to the path of sustainable growth and job creation. the irish presidency is well placed, given the competitiveness that the european union needs, to go the way of the lisbon summit. at the same time, i think it would be important - and i think the presidency has not considered it - to have a debate on the financial perspective announced by president prodi this morning. it is clear that a problem that will have to be faced is the consistent decision taken yesterday by the commission to bring an action before the court of justice on the basis of the decision taken by the ecofin council. the european union is a community of law, and legal rules are only conceived in terms of the obligation for everyone, big and small, to comply with them. we have very much welcomed the assessment of the presidency of the council on the area of freedom, security and justice and the progress made since the tampere summit. we believe that it is also well placed to deal with relations between the european union and the united states, and to try to somehow transform the discord of the past into the harmony of the present and the future. i would like to point out, because it seems important to me, that yesterday the summit of the americas came to an end - not in the best possible conditions - and to tell the presidency-in-office that a very interesting space is opening up for the european union to commit itself in a determined way to this priority at the next summit of heads of state and government european union/latin america, in mexico. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing my regret that mr schulz is not with us. what the president, mr poettering, has made quite clear is that we must not rush into this. there's been a series of early applications. the votes will determine how majorities are formed and it is clear that the president of the commission will have to take the results of the european elections into account in his proposal. that is what this parliament has voted for. our group is clearly the majority group and it intends to remain so in the next legislature.
mr president, like the majority in this house i have voted in favour of the excellent report by mrs prets on this very sensitive issue. the problem is that whenever stateless nations of the european union, such as the basque country, try to implement approved guidelines, the french and spanish authorities adopt a thoroughly contemptuous attitude. last week in bayonne, people were ejected from a court of law and sprayed with tear gas because they had dared to speak in basque and promote the use of the basque language in public services. members of this house will shortly receive full information on this regrettable incident. i must point out that the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, attached to this report, states that cooperation policy in the european union is 'unthinkable without respect for and promotion of cultural diversity as an integral part of the identity of the political entities and communities involved.'
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i think it is a pleasure for this parliament that this debate on the preparations for the 60th session of the united nations commission on human rights can take place. human rights are a priority, which must be extended universally and indivisibly, regardless of the cultures in which each country is founded. i am very pleased to hear the president-in-office of the council say that human rights were going to be a key issue in the irish presidency. i was also pleased to hear that the european union should not only defend human rights in order to export them, but that there should also be a concern and a concern that human rights should always be protected and respected in the various states of the european union. in this sense, acts of vandalism, racism or xenophobia, or associations which defend certain cultural identities, must be absolutely outlawed. i would also point out that, as the european union is a continent with a high level of immigration, it is possible that some of these acts are directed against immigrant groups. as i cannot, of course, deal with all the points which i think should be defended at this session in geneva, i shall refer only to three specific ones: the first is the issue of cuba, where there are illegal arrests, precisely for crimes of opinion; in this sense, the guarantee of freedom of expression, association and assembly is a priority issue. the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to oswaldo josé payá in 2002 and i think this is a matter of concern. on the island of cuba itself, there is guantanamo - second point. i'm not going to go into detail, but there are 700 people who are there pending trial and in a situation that legally cannot be defended. finally, there are other countries, such as north korea, where there are detentions that are openly condemnable. i myself have lived for many years in a country where human rights were not guaranteed and i believe that it should be a concern of the european union to defend them here and around the world.
(es) mr president, respect for, and the promotion and protection of, human rights is one of the cornerstones of european integration. the union therefore has a moral obligation and responsibility to defend and promote fundamental rights and freedoms. the obligation and responsibility, therefore, to improve the functioning of the united nations commission on human rights and to make it the political conscience of the world, and i am therefore glad that the words have been spoken here in this regard. but it also has the obligation and responsibility to denounce with all clarity and courage the violations of these rights that are taking place, wherever they occur and whatever the economic or foreign interests that exist between the european union and the countries where these violations take place or the motives that lead to the violation or endangerment of fundamental freedoms and the principles of the rule of law. not to do so means covering up, being complicit in them, complicit in what is happening in chechnya or guantanamo or cuba or tibet or iran. the union would then be in clear contradiction with the principles and values on which it is founded and would lose all credibility, and without credibility we would not have the authority to promote and demand respect for the principles we claim to defend. but it's not enough to report it. the recommendations of the united nations commission on human rights must also be applied and enforced. otherwise our commitment will be pure rhetoric, and rhetoric alone, however long the list of declarations adopted, will hardly make a more humane world a reality for all. this morning the irish prime minister, in presenting the programme of the irish presidency of the council, made a special reference to the subject of human rights. the geneva session provides a great opportunity to demonstrate that the words spoken this morning, which we all applauded, are really in keeping with the will to make the union actively assume before the world its commitment to the defence of the fundamental freedoms which form the basis of the community's edifice. i am convinced, after hearing you, mr president-in-office of the council, that this will be the case.
council. mr president, it is very hard to know where to begin. this has been a superb debate, and what has struck me listening to it has been the extraordinary range of issues addressed. as i mentioned at the outset, this debate is greatly appreciated by the presidency: it provides a timely reminder and an opportunity to exchange views with parliament some two months before the 60th session of the un commission on human rights opens in geneva. members of parliament – including the last speaker – have, in making their meaningful and fruitful contributions, highlighted areas in which there is still much work to do. i would like to thank all the members who contributed to this debate and to assure them that the irish presidency will see to it that the points they have raised will be brought to the attention of the appropriate council instance as we prepare for geneva. members have cited a considerable number of country-specific issues, as well as several thematic issues, which need to be worked on. it would be invidious of me to select specific issues from among all those which have been commented on today. let me simply say that my colleagues and i have been very careful to note the contributions and will ensure that we go through the record methodically. i would, however, like to refer to one point made by mrs bonino. the union has been a strong supporter of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights since its establishment over a decade ago. secretary-general annan has yet to appoint a successor to high commissioner sergio vieira de mello following his tragic death in iraq. let me assure you that this presidency will provide broad and strong support for the office of high commissioner at the geneva meeting, not least because we owe it to the memory of the distinguished incumbent who was cut down in baghdad, a man who did so much for the cause of human rights. i would like to end by again thanking the members who have made contributions today. i can assure them that their contributions will be taken on board.
commission. mr president, i would also like to thank parliament for its contribution to the preparation of the european union's position. a member of parliament raised the issue of the fight against terrorism and its impact on human rights. i would like to reiterate that the commission is of the opinion that the european union should support the mexican resolution on protecting human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism, in the 60th session of the un commission on human rights. concerning tunisia i would like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that the commission has recently published a communication on human rights in the mediterranean, in which we clarified our position on the human rights situation in tunisia. third, i would like to associate myself with mr roche's remarks as he paid homage to mr vieira de mello, the former high commissioner for human rights, who was tragically killed in baghdad. my last comments concern mrs bonino's remarks. i could even go as far as to say that i share her view. as you know, the commission said last year that it would be a dangerous precedent to change the way the president of the commission is chosen by replacing the concertation and acclamation procedure with a vote. therefore we are prepared to support the efforts of the irish presidency in avoiding making such a choice a source of conflict. such a conflict cannot but undermine the credibility and role of the commission on human rights, which is important for us. finally, mrs bonino, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that last december the european council decided to hand the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, based in vienna, a specific competence concerning the guarantee of fundamental rights in the european union, therefore creating the basis for what one could call an agency for fundamental rights in the european union.when it comes to fundamental rights outside the union, the responsibility lies with my colleague, mr patten, whom i am replacing today. when it comes to the internal policy of the european union, i am sorry to disappoint you, but i am the commissioner responsible for human rights!
- the next item is the report (a5-0445/2003) by mr moraes, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission on immigration, integration and employment (com (2003) 336 - 2003/2147 (ini)).
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr moraes, on his efforts and on the good work he has done on a report on immigration, integration and employment, which i think deserves a clearly favourable opinion. these are matters in which personal feelings and opinions can easily emerge, as well as political temptations, and i have therefore wanted to refer to the content of the communication. immigration is a reality that needs to be regulated, and we cannot put our heads under the hood or look the other way. in europe, particularly in countries with lower birth rates (spain and italy, among others), immigration is a necessary remedy. if the population, as the rapporteur has said, is estimated to fall from 303 million to 297 million in 2020 in the european union of twenty-five and is further estimated to fall to 280 million by 2030, the decline in employment could have a negative impact on economic growth, insofar as it is the result of increased employment and productivity. that is precisely why immigration should not be seen as a problem but as an opportunity. an opportunity that, of course, raises some problems that we need to solve. without going into the details, i will mention the integration of foreign children of immigrants into schools; intercultural coexistence in neighbourhoods and workplaces; family reunification, with all the problems raised by the very concept of reunification in a broad or narrow sense; the regulation of the undocumented; the fight against illegal immigration and the mafias who exploit it; and, in particular, the specific situation of immigrant women. in conclusion, immigrants are necessary, but how many immigrants can we accept? all you want? it seems impossible. it would be like transferring to some of the member states the same problems that immigrants are trying to get out of. given that in countries with very low birth rates, without immigration, the relationship between active and passive workers would become unsustainable in the medium term, it seems to me that the right way is to integrate them. they are labour, but above all they are human beings who are needed by the member states. the tampere principles are therefore still valid: cooperation with the countries of origin, a common european asylum system, the management of migration flows and fair treatment of third country nationals. i believe that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union gives us the guidelines to follow in its articles 4, 5 and 14, or what is the same thing, the prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment, the prohibition of forced labour and the right to education. since we are putting so much emphasis on the idea of employment, more specifically, article 15 proclaims the right of third-country nationals authorized to work in the territory of the member states to equal conditions with nationals. article 20 proclaims equality of persons before the law. article 21 prohibits discrimination on the grounds of other grounds, including nationality; article 23 guarantees equality between men and women in all areas, including employment, work and pay. the report by mr moraes describes situations and proposes measures which are generally acceptable in view of the often disadvantageous situation of immigrants in terms of wages, health and safety at work, working time and illegal work. in short, it is often, in more cases than desirable and in no case desirable, a situation of exploitation. we said that the first way of integration was employment, followed of course by cultural integration, but we must not forget that the same charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in its article 1, says: 'human dignity is inviolable. and it speaks to the dignity of every human being.
(es) mr president, commissioner, i think it is important that for the first time in this parliament - and a little late - we have a debate on the phenomenon of migration, linked to two important issues: the integration of the immigrant who is legally resident in the european union - and i stress the aspect of legality in the host society - and its relationship with employment opportunities, as a central element of economic immigration. we are faced with the important question of determining the capacity of the member states to take in refugees in accordance with the needs of the labour market itself, and this from a twofold point of view: quantitative and qualitative. for this reason, it is urgent that governments make realistic and as limited as possible offers of jobs, temporary or permanent, which can be covered through migratory flows, which ultimately balance the demographic deficit of the european union. this will be to the benefit of the member states and the countries of origin of immigrants. on the other hand, the problem today is being produced - with tragic consequences on many occasions, as we are seeing - by the development of a submerged economy in sectors such as agriculture, domestic service or construction; an economy that is partly nourished by irregular immigration and that causes situations and conditions that are inhuman both from a strictly labour point of view and from a social point of view. this means that ghettos and communities are being established in the host countries, where they are living in complete disintegration and with serious problems of subsistence. that said, mr commissioner, mr president, we can be organising seminars and meetings every day and discussing multiculturalism and religious integration and other issues, which lead to nothing unless clear and transparent conditions for legal and orderly entry are established, guaranteeing immigrants a job in the european union and facilitating their social, cultural and political reception and integration. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. as regards the political aspect of integration, which is being discussed at length today, i think that amendment no 4 by our group should be given special attention by the other political groups. for example, how can immigrants who are legally resident in the union be asked to vote in european elections when they cannot, for logical and constitutional reasons, vote in the legislative elections in the state in which they reside? in other words, they cannot elect the governments of the member states but only the european union. ladies and gentlemen of the left, let me say that this is a ridiculous proposal and that the groups which support it should seriously reconsider it. in voting matters, gentlemen of the left, there must be no room for demagoguery. in any case, we cannot do anything if we limit ourselves to wanting to solve this problem by making the european union alone responsible, without requiring the countries of origin to cooperate very actively in the orderly flow of their own immigrants, which would mean that these countries would have the administrative structures necessary to order their migratory flows, also making the return of their own workers attractive and, of course, avoiding a mass flight, such as is currently taking place in some border countries or, let us not forget, even from countries on the other side of the atlantic, as a result of their economic, political and social instability.
- thank you, mrs sartori. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. we welcome the presidency of the council, represented by mr roche. i can assure you that you will have the full cooperation of parliament and i hope that you will also cooperate in answering the questions of members of the european parliament who attach great importance to this opportunity to communicate with the council. the next item is question time (b5-0002/2004). we are addressing a number of questions to the council.
question no 1 by patricia mckenna (h-0800/03) subject: animal welfare and transport of minnows what measures will be taken under the irish presidency to ensure better compliance with eu animal welfare rules, and in particular with regard to the treatment of minnows? mules bred for racing in ireland are regularly exported to spain after their racing career has ended. there they are treated very badly and the spanish authorities have little regard for the welfare of these animals. a certain amount of eu funds was paid to the mint in ireland until 2002. what measures are now being taken to ensure the welfare of these dogs, whose breeding is partly financed by the eu? how many mares whose breeding was financed by eu funds have been exported from ireland to spain and under what conditions?
council. it seems to me that we would all share the concern that any animal, irrespective of the country it is in, be treated properly and appropriately. it again illustrates that this is a matter for domestic legislation and rules in the individual member states, rather than a matter for the council. however, i take note of the initiative that is mentioned, which is a very worthwhile and welcome one.
- question no 2 by nuala ahern (h-0803/03):on the threat to public health in the united kingdom and ireland from sellafield: will the presidency, in cooperation with the commission and euratom, investigate the latest research results from the university of dundee in scotland and the uk government committee examining radiation risks from internal emitters (cerrie) suggesting that the plutonium contamination from sellafield is a threat to public health in the united kingdom and ireland?
council. i really have nothing to add, and can only repeat what i have already said, which is that the council is not familiar with the details and that i cannot make an adjudication one way or the other. i certainly would not wish to make an adjudication as to the bona fides of a question raised by a member of this house.
- this is not a negotiation, ladies and gentlemen. there was a supplementary question from the questioner and there are two additional supplementary questions. of course, there are differing opinions. they all want to speak, but the rules of procedure do not allow it. ms. ahern, for a personal statement, you have 15 seconds to respond.
mr fitzsimons, there can be no more than two supplementary questions. i have authorized them in chronological order of the time when permission was requested to place them. at the next meeting you may ask other questions if you consider it appropriate. you know that's your right. but today only two members have the floor. i have to respect the rules of procedure and i ask you to do the same. question no 3 by mr josu ortuondo larrea (h-0806/03) subject: infringement of article 6 (1) of the treaty on european union? under article 7 (1) of the eu treaty, 'the council may, after inviting the government of the member state concerned to submit its observations, decide that a member state is in serious and persistent breach of the principles set out in article 6'. the leader of spain's main opposition party (psoe) has publicly complained that the ad hoc reform of the penal code that the spanish government has been working on, by presenting in the senate a proposal to amend the law on arbitration with a view to taking punitive measures if the basque regional government issues a referendum on the reform of the autonomous statute of the basque country, has been "inappropriate, wrong, ill-conceived, an expression of secrecy and contrary to fundamental principles of the law". the coordinator of izquierda unidas has stated that this reform "reintroduced the concept of political crime in spanish law", as was the case under the franco dictatorship. does the council consider that the imposition of a prison sentence for the purpose of political consultation of citizens is consistent with the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the fundamental principles and the rule of law common to the member states? does the council not consider that the best way to resolve historic conflicts such as those in palestine, ireland and the basque country is to promote dialogue, debate and the possibility of citizens being heard so that they can decide freely and democratically when the issues before them are fully in line with human rights?
council. as the honourable member knows, the council does not comment on media reports, nor is it the council's practice to express its views on domestic political matters in member states.
(es) mr president, my question referred to the articles of the treaty which oblige us all - the council, parliament, governments and also the presidency of the council and the commission - to ensure that human rights are respected. you don't want to answer me, but i'm going to remind you of something that i assume you know much better than i do. if i remember correctly, in ireland, before you gained independence, you had a provisional statute, which created a great conflict in your society between radicals and moderates. you have solved that situation by consulting the irish people, that is, by a referendum. in the basque country we are also experiencing a difficult and worrying situation, which is generating a lot of tension and a lot of violence. we are asking for the citizens to be able to speak and to decide, but the spanish government is preventing this. it is even threatening and changing laws to put in jail those who defend this referendum: a consultation of the citizens, which is the most democratic thing to do.
- mr ortuondo, i remind you that this is the time for supplementary questions and not for political statements.
(es) mr president, i would like to complete mr ortuondo's question by reminding him that this is not a decision of the spanish government, but that it is the spanish constitution itself which prevents a unilateral referendum for an autonomous community, and requires that any referendum be called by the king, on a proposal from the president of the government, previously authorized by the congress of deputies. that's what our constitution says. i think the question that mr ortuondo should have asked - although you probably will not answer it either - is whether those who break a law can be sanctioned or punished, which is what the spanish authorities have said, or, in this case, the reform of the spanish penal code.
- ladies and gentlemen - in this case mr oreja - this is not, in my view, an additional question and therefore the president-in-office of the council is in no way obliged to answer it, but he may speak if he wishes to say something.
council. i really have nothing to add to the point i made in answer to the original question. neither of the exchanges suggests that i should do so.
- mr maccormick, the president-in-office has answered clearly and there is no need for further questions. in any event, you have the floor. i hope you'll use it with your usual wisdom.
mr ortuondo, since i know that you will probably not be making a point of order - i do not know whether you will be making a personal statement - i will allow you to speak for 15 seconds and i ask you not to provoke any further personal statements. we should not spoil question time with negotiations, which should take place where appropriate, in this case in spain.
(es) mr president, i am speaking on a personal note. if what i have proposed is enshrined in the spanish constitution, why did the popular party, mr aznar's government, go out at night and take advantage of a law... (the president cut off the speaker)
- i ask you to refer this debate to the basque parliament and to the spanish congress, but please do not speak further on this subject. as you know, i ignore the fact that i was also elected in spain, and that i am spanish, and as i always say, i pretend to be finnish or irish.
- question no 4 by paulo casaca (h-0809/03):on: financing of the natura 2000 network as part of its right of initiative, the commission has presented a proposal for a regulation amending the regulation on the financial instrument for the environment (life) (com (2003) 0402/final). this proposal is concerned mainly with comitology issues of limited or no interest to european citizens and of doubtful interest to nature conservation, but which of course open up a debate on very substantial issues to which the regulation in question does not provide any answers. will the council in any event use the review of the financial instrument to make the necessary changes resulting from the final report on the financing of the natura 2000 network by the commission's working group referred to in article 8 of the habitats directive, which concludes that an annual budget of between eur 3,400 and 5,700 million is needed for the management of the natura 2000 network alone?
council. the commission recently made a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1655/2000 concerning the financial instrument for the environment – life – mainly in two aspects. the first concerns only comitology. however, the second provides for the extension of the life regime for a further two years to bridge the gap between the current regime and the new financial perspectives for 2007 onwards. on 22 december 2003 the council held an exchange of views on this second aspect and on the options for financing the eu's environmental policies from 2007 onwards. in addition, the council adopted conclusions on biodiversity in which it looked forward to the submission of the forthcoming commission communication on financing natura 2000. when received, this will provide a further opportunity for discussions on this very important issue.
council. the member has raised the fundamental question of whether an annual budget of eur 3.4 million or eur 5.7 million would be appropriate. that is the key issue. much of the effort to date as regards the natura 2000 network of sites, habitats and bird directives has been devoted to the initial designation of sites; the purely mechanical side of it. it is very difficult at this early stage to estimate the likely costs of conserving those sites in future years. i understand that the commission has been examining this question further in preparing its communication on financing natura 2000. to summarise, the work has been on the designation of sites. until that phase of the work is completed, it is difficult to see what the overall cost is likely to be, but i would nevertheless compliment and thank the member for raising this issue.
- question no 5 by mr pimenta question no 6 by glenys kinnock (h-0816/03) subject: zimbabwe what measures does the council believe can be taken through the common position - in the light of the growing crisis in zimbabwe - to send a clear and unequivocal signal to president mugabe?
council. the direct answer to the question is yes, the presidency is obviously aware that any form of violence or action against civilian populations inevitably drives people out. we are also concerned about and aware of the impact that sanctions can have on populations. with regard to the specifics, i would refer back to the earlier answer that i gave directly to mrs kinnock: where do we go from here? the next stage is a matter for current discussion and i do not want to anticipate that discussion by going further than i already have.
- i see that members have great confidence in their own speed in reaching the elevators, and this could lead to a breakdown if we apply the rules of procedure. if anyone is listening to me in their office, i ask them to come down to the chamber, because there was a time when none of the questioning members were present. question no 7 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0824/03):on 9 december 2003, syria and the eu reached an agreement on an association agreement between syria and the eu, following the model of association agreements followed with the other mediterranean partner countries. it thus contains a political chapter, an economic and financial chapter and a social and cultural chapter. in this context, how does the council assess the prospects for the agreement for the two parties? does it believe that the signing of the agreement in the near future will contribute to regional development, the creation of a positive climate of negotiation in the israeli-arab conflict and the democratization of syria? what is the council's position on the diametrically opposed position of the united states, which led to the adoption by congress and president bush (a few days before the agreement was reached) of a law containing economic and diplomatic sanctions and restrictions against syria, and does the council agree with the reasons given by the united states for this policy towards syria?
council. i would take exception to the world 'collude'. there is a dialogue between europe and the united states, which is quite appropriate. issues relating to lebanon and syria are obviously going to be part of that dialogue. it is certainly not a question of 'good cop, bad cop'. europe has its view as to how it does its business and the united states has its view as to how it does its business. those views are informed by our own different backgrounds. the point i am making about this agreement is that it is a very positive indication of the european approach to this particular matter.
- question no 8 by bill newton dunn (h-0827/03) subject: albanian drug crime the outgoing italian presidency of the council recommended to the group on drugs and organised crime that police from the member states be stationed in albania. as the council is undoubtedly aware, albanian gangs are increasingly involved in local cannabis cultivation and smuggling of this drug into the union, but they are also becoming involved in the trade of hard drugs such as heroin and cocaine, which are produced outside albania. are there already police from the member states stationed in albania? when will such a police force arrive in denial? who's in command of this police force?
council. the council remains concerned at the issue of organised crime and drug trafficking in albania. in the conclusions of the last council meeting on external relations on 9 december 2003, the council expressed concern over the slow process of reform in albania and urged the albanian government to intensify its efforts, particularly in its fight against organised crime. helping the albanian government to fight drug trafficking has been an integral part of eu efforts to contribute to the fight against organised crime in albania. police forces and experts from the european union and member states have consistently been present in albania, particularly since the 1997 crisis, to help the albanian government in various ways, including specific operations, to build capacity and fight organised crime, including drug production and drug trafficking. as regards drugs, major initiatives were taken under the greek and italian presidencies in 2003 to enhance the fight against drug trafficking in the balkan region in general and in albania in particular. in june 2003 a comprehensive action plan on drugs was agreed between the european union and the western balkan states. a large part of this plan was devoted to the fight against drugs trafficking. a very fruitful follow-up meeting was held on 2 december 2003 in brussels. as regards albania in particular, the council adopted in november 2003 a resolution on the posting of liaison officers with particular expertise in drugs in albania. this resolution envisages the setting up of a coordination mechanism among the liaison officers in order to ensure a constant exchange of information on drugs-related activities and also to foster common understanding. on a more general level, a meeting between ministers of the eu member states and ministers of the western balkan countries was held on 27 november 2003 on the sidelines of the justice and home affairs council. the common conclusions resulting from that meeting stressed the need to enhance law enforcement capacity in the western balkans. on the general issue of the western balkans, the irish presidency will do anything that it can to assist governments in that region – which face significant challenges – and to involve them as much as we possibly can.
council. on the matter of liaison officers, i agree with the member that there is no point in people being posted individually. there must be some form of coordination and certainly some form of exchange of information at a very basic level. i refer the member to what i said in my previous response, which was that the resolution envisages the setting-up of a coordination mechanism among liaison officers to ensure a constant exchange of information. the point that the member has put his finger on is absolutely correct: there is no point in intelligence gathering if the information is not shared. this is a new departure. we are at the point of establishing this coordination mechanism. i am sure that the member's observations will be helpful in that specific regard.
- question no 9 by richard howitt (h-0834/03):on: multiannual strategic programme for the eu's external relationscan the president state how his presidency programme is supported by the multiannual strategic programmes recently agreed?
council. the honourable member will appreciate that this really is the first time we have been into this particular process and it will take a little time for this process to bed down. nonetheless, a multiannual approach is clearly logical and is a better approach to that which preceded it. it is very helpful to incoming presidencies to have a role to play so that they can interlink all the issues. i cannot be more specific other than to say that the multiannual strategic programme is helpful. it will certainly give us a much stronger framework and a better time allowance. it will mean that there can be more reasonable anticipation that programmes will be fully worked through. it is in all those regards and i think that is what the member has in mind clearly a much better approach than that which preceded it.
question no 10 by proinsias de rossa (h-0838/03): what action does the council intend to take to reach a common political position on the temporary staff directive, given the importance of this act for progress on the lisbon agenda?
council. i thank the member for that. i do not believe that adaptability and flexibility naturally enhancing or supporting the rights of workers need ever necessarily be in contradiction to each other. in ireland we have had some experience in recent years of the tremendous progress that can be made economically by having an inclusive approach to it. i accept the point that the member made. it is a complex issue. there are different views on this, both within this house and within europe. however, in general, it would be a fallacy for us to think that we have to build in flexibility, adaptability or progress at a cost to workers. that should not be the basis on which we make our progress. i am sure that is not what the member has in mind.
council. i accept the final point the member made, which illustrates something of the complexity of this issue. there are specific cases that come to mind. young medical graduates, for example, may well choose to work on an agency basis because it is more flexible and suits them better. we are aware of that. the second point that mr crowley touched on was the general question of the rights of contract workers. i recognise the importance of securing agreement on proposals that improve the rights of workers, including temporary agency workers, but which at the same time do not force anybody to operate in a way they would not wish to. as i have said, the presidency sees this as an important issue, not least within the context of the lisbon strategy. the member will be aware that we are committed to achieving the lisbon goals of increasing employment and providing better jobs, and that includes more choices for workers. the point raised in the original question was that this should not be achieved on the backs of the workers; that is the core issue of concern to mr de rossa. the point has been made that this is a complex matter. there are different views on the issue and as the last supplementary question illustrates, there may be circumstances in which workers wish to benefit from this more flexible approach. clearly their right to choose should not be interfered with in a way that would diminish that right.
- question no 11 by alexandros alavanos (h-0840/03):unfair conditions for family reunificationin article 4 (1) (d) of directive 2003/86/ec on the right to family reunification oj l 251, 3.10.2003, p. 12, member states are allowed to check whether children over 12 years of age meet national integration criteria before allowing entry and issuing residence permits. since the children to be examined come from developing countries and will therefore not be able to meet the requirements, does this requirement for examination not in fact nullify the right to family reunification?
council. i do not like off-the-cuff or technocratic answers either and i wish i could give you a more substantial answer, but the point is that the only institution which, with regard to the treaty, has the power actually to interpret community legislation is ultimately the court of justice, but the member is aware of this and does not need me to lecture him in this regard. however, it should be recalled that the court of justice has been called upon to give a ruling on the directive on the right to family reunification, adopted in september 2003, insofar as a direct action has been brought before it for its annulment. the point i am making – and the core issue in the reply – is not intended to be in any way discourteous to the member or to diminish his question; rather, i am simply making the point that on the issue of interpretation there is no appropriate role for the council. i am sorry i cannot expand on this.
- question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.32 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the warmest of congratulations to the rapporteur on the quality of her report. if we were to analyse the evolution of the number of jobs in the various economic sectors, we would soon observe a rapid and significant reduction in the number of people working in the agricultural sector, a different trend towards job losses in the industrial sector and, on the other hand, a clear positive quantitative evolution of those who work in the service sector. perhaps, among other reasons, the technical, professional and intellectual capacity of the person who is active in the service sector. the range of services is also very wide, ranging from transport to education, from commerce to hospitality, from tourism to leisure activities, and services are also strongly affected by demographic changes in society. the activities of caring for the elderly or those arising from the need to reconcile work and family life are clear examples. in other words, this sector influences the others, including agriculture, and in the knowledge and information economy too, the attitude of the service provider creates new jobs. it is necessary to emphasize the possibilities arising from the whole, from collaboration between the different administrations, since the local administration - the nearest - knows better the needs of potential claimants and the means to satisfy them. i also think it is appropriate to 'horizontalise' policies such as health and safety at work, equality for women and non-discrimination, as our charter of fundamental rights stipulates in articles 20 and 21. mr president, we must not forget lifelong learning, because, as the rapporteur says, a service sector with low wages means a low level of quality, skills and productivity, and this represents a loss of the economy's capacity to generate innovation, sustainable wealth and social cohesion.
commission. i thank parliament for the interest it has shown in the posted workers directive and in the commission's communication. it was clearly visible in the draft report on the implementation of that directive and was indeed highlighted in the discussions that led to its adoption in the committee on employment and social affairs. the commission clearly shares this interest and agrees with parliament that this directive continues to be an essential element for companies and workers alike. as regards the practical operation of the directive and its implementing legislation, we all agree that it is necessary to improve cooperation between the administration of the member states on the one hand, and the dissemination of information on the applicable terms and employment conditions for workers and service providers on the other hand. my services will evaluate the existing difficulties there will be cooperation between my services, a group of government experts and social partners. we will discuss it in the liaison forum, which has been scheduled for 10 february, and will try to find practical solutions to political problems. as far as the accession countries are concerned and the rapporteur has already underlined the importance of the implementation of this directive in these countries they have to transpose and implement this directive by 1 may. the commission will prepare a report on the implementation of this directive in the course of this year; we hope to present it by the end of 2005. with regard to the need for legislative action, i am aware that some of you do not share the view held by the member states' experts and the commission that amendment of the directive is not necessary at this stage. even though i am not convinced that substantial amendment of the text of the directive is necessary at this stage, i can assure you that my services will pay close attention to the arguments raised by national administrations and the social partners in their respective contacts. also within that context, the commission will take the necessary initiatives to ensure thorough consideration – together with the member states' experts and the social partners – of the issues raised by the european parliament.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs glase on her excellent work. within the free movement of persons, the report focuses on the posting of workers in the three possible scenarios: posting under a contract concluded between the home enterprise and the recipient of the services; secondly, the possible posting of workers to a work centre or to an enterprise belonging to the group; and thirdly, the posting of workers from a temporary employment enterprise located in a member state which supplies them to a user operating in a member state other than that of the transferor. any of these situations can create disadvantages for posted workers, and of a different order: the first one that comes to mind may be their working conditions; hence the importance of directive 96/71/ec, which is a catalogue of minimum standards of protection under community law, although insufficient, since it does not in fact cover standards or aspects such as social security. i think the rapporteur has identified the problems well: unfair competition, a difference in social protection and therefore a detriment to workers, the need for a clear definition of the workers' statute. but it is also worth adding, and this has also been discussed here, the possible abuse of displacement and the problems arising from subcontracting and in general from the new forms of outsourcing, decentralization or decentralisation of production or, if you like, from the new forms of production organization. in conclusion, madam commissioner, i think that we have before us the opportunity, or perhaps the need, for a common core of mandatory minimum standards in all cases and at least guarantees, below which the condition of work or performance of the service is unlawful when the legislation of the state of the service is inferior to that of the place of origin of the displacement. without such a guarantee, in the scope in which it can take place, i believe that the possibilities of abuse and fraud are within the reach of the irresponsible businessman. and what would be worse, we could be inviting that fraud and that abuse.
(es) mr president, if it is difficult to get all the member states to agree, in this case it is even more difficult, because i think we do not even agree - and i am going to take the path of reflection - on the concept of moral harassment. in substance, we can say that among the basic elements of this conduct are the intention to harm - whether it comes from the employer, the managers or coworkers - the production of damage in the sphere of the most essential personal rights and the complex, continuous, predetermined and systematic character. the factual situation of moral harassment implies hostile behaviour against the personal dignity of the victim, insults, mockery, ridicule, criticism, acts of derision; it implies hostile behaviour against his professionalism, which is manifested in monotonous, unnecessary, denigrating, abusive and disproportionate charges. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these situations sometimes involve an externalized conflict and sometimes they originate or maintain a latent conflict, with repercussions on the person psychologically harassed, on his family and on his environment. these are always situations whose existence is difficult to prove or demonstrate, often difficult to classify as criminal or administrative offences. article 31 (1) of the charter of fundamental rights provides that 'every worker has the right to work in conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity' and, according to article 1, 'human dignity is inviolable. it will be respected and protected". i believe that a great deal has been done during this parliament's term of office in the field of occupational safety and health, but the situation i have described, more or less fortunately, is well worth getting down to, because, as on other occasions when we refer to the protection of dignity or the right to health and safety, in this case, of course, we have to deal with the need to protect the dignity of human beings.
(es) mr president, first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate the commission on this proposal - and its team, which has had the patience to discuss each of the amendments with all of us. i think this is commendable, because it does not happen very often and i wanted to quote it here. i would also like to congratulate mr zappalà on the work he has done, on having to put up with this huge number of amendments, and also on his speech in the plenary, which i think has been clarifying. there is no doubt that this is an extremely important directive for advancing free movement, and i take up the last words of mrs thors, who said that it cannot be easier to set up companies than individuals when they are going to pursue a profession. the free movement of professionals within the union is vital, and i am glad that we are also talking about the recognition of professional qualifications for all professions, not just some of them. i believe that the professionals we once called intellectuals, engineers or those with a high level of education have as much right as those with a lower level of education. it is true that there have been many controversial points. i think that the division between freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment by the sixteen-week criterion was very difficult to justify. i think we should establish, as we have done in the committee, a rule for each profession, since a tourist guide is not the same as an engineer when he is going to provide services for a few weeks in another country. we must strike a balance between freedom of movement and the guarantee of quality of service, and fair competition between those who practise a profession in the member state of which they are nationals and those who come from another country to practise it. there are other aspects which i think are particularly important, such as the establishment of specific features for each of the professions and certain exceptions as we have established - and i quote the case of notaries. as regards engineers specifically, i too, as an engineer, would like to point out that the amendments which we have tabled together with mr harbour - nos 192 to 196 - clearly set out these professional levels - from one to five - and there are other amendments which i will support, together with mr harbour, aimed specifically at defining the profession of engineer. i think that some of the points that mr zappalà has made are premature, as has been said in this house, and i ask that a common platform for engineers be established.
(es) mr president, we voted against the report on immigration, integration and employment by the rapporteur, mr moraes, although it is an excellent piece of work. this is due to the intransigence of some of my colleagues in the socialist group who, i believe, are less concerned about the living and working conditions of immigrants than about their political use and perhaps their partisan profitability. the committee responsible for employment and social affairs felt that, given the content of the communication on immigration, integration and employment, it was not the time to raise the question of the right to vote in local or european elections as a key issue, despite the fact that the latter seems to be regulated in the treaty. moreover, this matter is regulated in each member state. in spain, article 13 (2) of the constitution, and the principle of reciprocity in the treaties of cooperation and friendship with chile, venezuela, argentina and uruguay. nor is the automatic regularization proposed by the european united left in its amendment no 13 for all those who do not have a residence permit acceptable. that would be tantamount, mr president, to inviting illegal immigration and, in the short term, to creating in the host states a situation similar to that which immigrants trying to leave europe are facing. i wish we could have as many people as we want to have. since this is not possible, we welcome as many as we can in the spirit of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union: 'human dignity is inviolable. the people's group would have liked to have voted in favour of the moraes report, because we are concerned about the working and living conditions of immigrants in the european union: their wages, their health at work, their jobs. because we want their integration and that of their families and children, because we are concerned about the situation of immigrant women, because we are committed to intercultural coexistence in neighbourhoods, cities and workplaces. it is a pity that the intransigence of some members of the socialist group and the desire for political profit have prevented mr moraes' excellent report from getting the vote it deserved.
- the next item is the report (a5-0478/2003) by mr echerer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on a community framework for management companies in the field of copyright (2002/2274 ((ini)).
(es) mr president, i would like to begin by joining the tributes to mrs echerer - and i do not need to insist on them, because they have been repeated many times already - but i would also like to express my satisfaction with the statements made by commissioner bolkestein, who recognises the importance of collective management companies at the moment. intellectual property develops as a consequence of technological developments. until the printing press there was no real intellectual property. we are now in a second technological revolution, the "marconi galaxy", with all the new information technologies. as technology advances, the creator is increasingly alienated from the consumer. in particular, my colleague mr harbour speaks of the customer, 'the customer', and i prefer to use the word consumer, distinguishing between two types of customer, namely the final consumer, that is, the suffering citizen who has to follow television or radio programmes, and the intermediary, who is the one who buys the intellectual property rights, uses them and exploits them. this brings us to the situation we find ourselves in, with a multiplication of media, but increasingly empty of content. i mean, we have more and more hours of television, more and more hours of electronics, more and more magazines, more and more books and more and more media, but practically empty of content. and this is a consequence of the lack of support for the creator. in today's information society, creators are not being protected. we are making a media-junk, which uses intellectual property in a way absolutely unconscious, without any responsibility and, in the face of this, the creators need to be protected. that is the role of collective management companies, which are not a monopoly but the instrument which creators have to defend themselves against the control of the media by a few media chains, supported by a great economic potential and serving political or economic interests. the only instrument available to creators today is therefore these collective management companies, which have become workers' unions, as opposed to employers' organizations, which have enormous power. i agree that collective management companies must adapt to a new situation, because they were born on a national level and we are about to move to a transnational or even global level. but at least in the european union we should strengthen the action of these collective management companies so that we can have that protection at least in this area. finally, i would like to refer to enlargement. the european union is to be enriched by ten new countries with a great cultural tradition, but in which - as a result of their recent political past - intellectual property has not been sufficiently protected until very recently. i think it is very important that, in the final process of enlargement, we convey to these countries the need for them to adapt to the acquis communautaire, including - among other things - the exercise of collective management, in the face of the danger of monopoly by the large chains that control the media.
commission. mr president, after this most interesting debate there is very little that i can add to what i said earlier. no questions have been addressed to the commission and no amendments have been brought to the notice of the commission – even though mr manders mentioned one. there is therefore nothing for me to comment on. i shall end by saying that in the forthcoming commission communication on the management of copyright and related rights in the internal market, the commission will take due cognisance and notice of the remarks made this afternoon by mr karas, mr harbour and others.
- thank you very much, inspector. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon, immediately after the debate.
- the following motions for resolutions are to be dealt with jointly: - b5-0016/2004 by glenys kinnock and van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0020/2004 by maes, rod and isler béguin, on behalf of the greens/efa group, on zimbabwe; - b5-0022/2004 by andrews, ribeiro e castro and muscardini, on behalf of the un group, on the situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0023/2004 by mulder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the political situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0026/2004 by marset campos, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0030/2004 by van orden, corrie, deva, foster, parish, tannock, ban, gahler, ghola, ed korotti, lehne, posselt and sacré de silguy, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on zimbabwe; - b5-0033/2004 by belder, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on zimbabwe;
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by saying in positive terms what commissioner barnier has said in negative terms, knowing that the irish presidency is very sensitive to poetry. a spanish universal poet, antonio machado, said in a very famous poem: 'there is no road for the traveller, the road is made by walking'; and you have started to walk, with prudence, but with firmness, and i think that parliament should appreciate this. you are opening the way and overcoming a situation of blockage, of stagnation, which is very dramatic in europe. we have heard the report by our representatives in the igc, mr hänsch and mr brok, and what they both tell us is that the atmosphere seems to have changed. i think that irish hospitality plays a positive role in this and it is very important that the atmosphere has changed for the better and i myself welcome the very positive intervention by my colleague mr poettering, who i am sure has spoken on behalf of at least three quarters of his group. i imagine the british conservatives will not be happy, but i think there is a clear convergence between us... well, on behalf of the 80%, i admit it. there is one important question which has not yet been resolved - and i believe that the italian presidency has not sent you a single document on this - and that is the status of the amendments to the text of the convention at the brussels council. i understand, having heard the irish presidency and having studied these amendments in parliament, that there has been a reworking of the text of the convention, that is to say, there has been no consolidation of these texts, and that is important in assessing the setbacks that have occurred. and we have to start working on that. i also think it should be stressed that a number of countries which were very critical at the brussels summit - including my own, spain, poland, germany and france, among others - have publicly expressed their willingness to reach an agreement through their ministers. and in relation to the two-speed europe, i will say something very basic: the problem is not so much that there are two speeds, but that those who are putting on the hand brake all day should stop putting on it. i think that is the crux of the matter at the moment, that is, you cannot move forward if there are a number of countries that are doing is absolutely braking. i think that would be a good start. and it is absolutely clear that we must try to avoid a second failure at the intergovernmental conference, but it is also, and to put it in a positive way, very important that we know how to face up to our responsibilities. why would you do that? because the convention, with the participation of the new member states and some of those still being negotiated, has drawn up a text, and we must present to the electorate - and we will address it shortly - the result of our work, which will enable the union to work and operate in a more democratic and effective way. that is a responsibility we share and therefore, in the face of elections, we must be able to make this approach. but i'm adding other elements to this year's calendar. firstly, there will be a new parliament and a new commission, and we cannot deny them the right to propose any amendments they wish. the question is not whether the next presidency will do better, but whether we may find ourselves in the position of having to start from scratch with a new parliament and a new commission. that's an important point. we are also facing important international decisions which will affect the european union in the coming months: the reform of the united nations, in which we europeans are directly involved - we will be receiving its secretary-general tomorrow - the situation in iraq, the situation in the middle east, international politics and the european union's global responsibilities. we must also deal clearly, and this is not about making any threats or making any assumptions, but it is clear that we must discuss now and jointly, because they are on the agenda, the updating of the lisbon strategy and the financial perspective, that is to say the economic and solidarity dimension of our union, and we must try to do so in a constructive way. it is unthinkable that we can make progress in the economic dimension and not make progress in the political dimension. it is therefore absolutely urgent - and i welcome the willingness of the irish presidency - to act positively and proactively. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, in spanish we say: "among all the others, she was killed and she died alone". in this case, the saying "many tried and she survived" cannot be applied. despite the intergovernmental conference, the draft constitution drawn up by the convention is still on the table, thanks in part to the pressure of this house and to words such as those spoken by its president, mr cox, last monday in madrid, demanding that the igc finish its work and finish it well, on time, that is to say, before the european elections and, why not, before the end of this legislature. now, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i ask the irish presidency for support and confidence, but also for a demand, a demand that work be done on the draft convention and not on unknown, incomprehensible or backward-looking commitments and tactics, and that this be done in a public and transparent manner. bilateral contacts can be useful, but the igc is a body that must act together, debate and reach agreements for a final consensus.
mr president, i do not want to open a debate on this matter, but as you rightly said, this is a matter of constitutional concern. moreover, it is part of the legislative procedure. it would be very useful for the house to obtain information from the presidency of the council regarding the reasons behind and the justifications for the four previously mentioned governments' opposition to the statute. we could then, perhaps, make progress. at this moment we do not know the reservations these governments have.
(es) mr president, it is the end of the mandate of the commission and of parliament and therefore i would like to congratulate commissioner monti on the excellent work he has done throughout this entire mandate of the commission. competition policy, as has been said, is one of the fundamental policies for which the commission is responsible, its implementation and enforcement is certainly difficult, it is subject to many pressures, and i therefore want to reiterate my congratulations to commissioner monti on the success of this policy. however, there are some points of concern which have been raised by other colleagues here. the first, of course, is that we cannot let our guard down. the pressure of economic and political interests to escape the rules of the market is logical and must always be countered, for the benefit of citizens and consumers, by the free exercise of market mechanisms to ensure an efficient market with a correct allocation of resources. it is therefore obvious that these pressures must be counteracted, because, as economists know, the tendency of any company is to control the market, if it can be oligopolistic, then fine, if it can be monopolistic, then even better, and in some sectors there are still very significant distortions, as has been mentioned here. the second point i would obviously like to recall is the traditional liberal group position that there should be a section in the court of justice dealing with these matters. the third and final point would be to ensure, both from the commission and from the other institutions of the european union, that the functioning of the competition courts, at all levels within the union, is correct. if we are rigorous in certain areas but not in others, it is obvious that we are giving comparative facilities which distort the situation on the markets, and more so, as has been said, in view of the enlargement which will take place in a few months' time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- catalonia and the kingdom of spain have been experiencing a political storm in recent days. i mention this because it has affected our institution. our president, mr cox, has postponed the meeting he was due to have with the new president of the parliament of catalonia, mr ernest benach, no later than yesterday. the reason for all this is that last monday the madrid daily abc revealed that my secretary-general josep lluís carod-rovira, who had just taken over as prime minister of catalonia, had met in secret (a secret not so secret since the abc newspaper revealed it) with the leaders of the terrorist organization eta. with his characteristic courage and sense of honour, mr carod did indeed acknowledge the meeting, stating that it had taken place at the request of eta, from which he hoped to obtain the announcement of a truce. since monday, anathemas have been pouring down from madrid in a surge of electoral indignation. mr carod has resigned as prime minister, courageously taking the lead in barcelona in the cortes elections to be held on 14 march. as a good democrat, he makes the citizens the judges of his actions. i have no doubt about the verdict, which is the only one that counts, and i regret that the president of our institution has refused or postponed the reception of the president of the parliament of catalonia.
(es) mr president, in 2002 the european council in lisbon set itself the objective that in ten years' time the european union should be the most dynamic and advanced economy in the world, generating employment, social protection and welfare for all citizens. it was found that this required various economic reforms, as well as strengthening research and social cohesion, but in almost all member states we are seeing continuing examples of relocation of companies whose employers, generally multinational, seek better profit margins on the basis of lower manufacturing costs of products, setting up their industries in countries with cheaper labour and sometimes with less environmental controls. this creates unemployment in the union, reduces our wealth and reduces the chances of achieving the lisbon objectives. in the face of this unstoppable dynamic due to globalisation, our reaction cannot be to try to compete to match our costs to those offered by less developed countries, on the basis of resignations by our workforce or our environmental demands. our aim must be to strengthen our human resources, education, training, technological development, research and knowledge. only in this way will we be able to maintain our competitive edge, boost and retain leading-edge enterprises and sustain the high level of welfare, protection and social cohesion at our disposal. the galileo project, which we are discussing today, is a good example of the right direction we have taken. together with the european space agency, the egnos programme, and hopefully iter too, are the spearhead for europe to be present in the front group, facing the most important challenges that humanity will face in this 21st century, namely the use of our atmosphere and outer space in a sustainable and nature-friendly way. and since the earth and the universe belong to us all, we fully support galileo being open to cooperation with third countries such as china, india, brazil and others, as well as negotiations with russia and the united states on satellite navigation. and also that our galileo transponders be used to house the existing marine rescue systems and other needs of the transport, telecommunications, environmental, agricultural, fisheries and, above all, people sectors. i congratulate mr piétrasanta on his report and the commission, parliament and finally the council for their support for the galileo project.
- the next item is the report (a5-0006/2004) by mr corbey, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste (pe-cons 3697/2003 - c5-0629/2003 - 2001/0291 (cod)).
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after a rather long and difficult process, we are finally going to have a directive which is not only ambitious but also realistic and, above all, will be applicable, because the dates and the quantitative objectives set in it are quite balanced. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs corbey, very sincerely and thank her for her work and the flexibility she has shown in reaching this agreement. this agreement has not been easy because, in addition to the long and contentious debates we have had in the committee on the environment, we have encountered additional legal problems arising from the court of justice's judgment on what is meant by energy revalorisation. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have made valuable contributions to improving this directive and, most especially, the chairman of the committee, mrs jackson. the work has really paid off, because the packaging directive will have enormous consequences for the various economic agents involved: municipalities, collection systems, companies producing packaging materials, industry, etc. and from here i want to make a very special appeal to consumers, who are an essential sector in this system to collaborate by taking all the packaging to the green points. reuse, recycling and energy recovery are three options for waste management. each has its advantages and disadvantages, but i think we should support all three because of what they have in common: it is always better to have any of them than to dump waste in landfills. as regards the concept of prevention, i believe that, without leaving it aside, we must be flexible, especially in the case of the agri-food industry which - let us not forget - is the largest user of packaging, because it must combine environmental objectives with the strictest food safety criteria. the packaging industry is already making enormous efforts to improve the design of its products for the simple reason that it saves costs and, in the end, is a competitive advantage. as the european commission itself has acknowledged, some member states will have more difficulty complying with the directive for historical reasons of lack of infrastructure, low population density or simply consumption patterns. in this respect, i am glad to have been part of the search for a solution that is affordable for all. portugal, greece, ireland and the new member states will have longer deadlines to comply with this directive. i know that some of these countries are already making enormous efforts and i am sure that they will achieve the objectives set. finally, i hope that the problems arising from the vague definition of what constitutes energy recovery after the judgment will be resolved urgently for the good of all.
commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the outcome of the conciliation process and is pleased that the co-legislators decided to more than double the recycling target by 2008. the commission also welcomes the fact that solutions could be found for two important and difficult issues. the first is the procedure for adopting a deadline for accession states, and the second is the question of the consequences of the recent court judgment on energy recovery. concerning the deadline for the accession countries, a commission proposal is under preparation. the commission thinks that the parliament needs to be fully involved in this important matter, therefore this proposal will be based on codecision. on the consequences of the court judgment the commission realises that not everybody is happy with the solution of transforming the recovery target into a target for recovery and incineration at waste incineration plants with energy recovery. however, it would have been difficult to take member states to court for having interpreted ‘recovery’ in the same way as most member states and the commission would have done until the judgment. the view taken by the co-legislators may indeed avoid a period of legal uncertainty from which no one would have benefited. however, this should not hide the fact that we need to solve the recovery issue. this must be done, not only for packaging, but also for all waste. therefore the commission thinks that we need to review the status of recovery in the waste framework directive. the ongoing debate on the thematic strategy on waste prevention and recycling will be an important input to such a view. the commission would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs corbey, as well as all the members who have contributed to ensuring the successful outcome of this important legislative process.
thank you very much, commissioner. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0486/2003) by mr avilés perea, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2001, section vii - committee of the regions (sec (2002) 405 - c5-0247/2002 - 2002/2107 (dec)).
the rapporteur. (es) mr president, we are examining today a report which is the consequence of the postponement of the decision on the discharge of the accounts of the committee of the regions on 8 april last year. this was the result of breaking news about some irregularities in management. when the report was practically finished, we were informed of the possible existence of irregularities in management and the concern expressed by the interviewer regarding reimbursements of travel and diet expenses, and some possibility of fraud. in view of this suspicion, we in the committee on budgetary control are asking for the discharge decision to be postponed in order to carry out a detailed audit and clarify all these indications of irregularities, an audit which was finally carried out by the court of auditors on the general budget of the committee of the regions and on its financial and administrative management. the outcome of this audit did not indicate any serious irregularities. at the same time, olaf made a report on this possible fraud in the committee of the regions and found that there was no personal profit or fraudulent intent on the part of the staff of the committee of the regions, that is to say, some internal administrative deficiencies appeared that were not of major importance, especially considering that during the period from 2001, the year in which these events occurred, until the time we were here, the committee of the regions itself had amended its internal rules of procedure and had introduced a number of amendments aimed precisely at avoiding irregularities that may have occurred in the past, while committing itself to making changes and to providing training to staff to avoid any possible internal administrative irregularities. we must recognize, and i personally have to say this, that the committee of the regions has made an effort to clarify its internal situation in order to improve management and that it has established rules to avoid problems or duplications in the payment of travel or dietary allowances to committee members. the fraud that was eventually detected was of very little importance: a small amount that has been mostly resolved, and the small part that remains to be resolved is being resolved with a former member. so we have seen at all times a quick reaction from the committee of the regions and a willingness to work with us, with parliament, to get the best compliance and transparency, and to allow us to think that we were facing a problem that was being solved. in this spirit, i am recommending today that the report i am presenting on behalf of the committee on budgetary control be supported and that the committee of the regions' management be approved with the recommendations we have included in this report. the express references in the report to the olaf report have been deleted on the recommendation of parliament's legal service. it did not seem appropriate for us to refer to a report which, by its very nature, is a confidential report; therefore, it is deleted directly and there is not even a vote on its deletion, but it is to be considered inadmissible, which does not substantially alter the report. as regards the amendments tabled, i can say that i am in favour of amendments nos 3, 4, 5 and 6 and against the others. i hope you will study this report carefully. it was the result of the work and collaboration of the majority of the members of the committee on budgetary control, who have always sought better management for the committee of the regions, which is something that interests us all as a parliament, and them selves because of what they represent in the european institutions.
- thank you very much, mr. bösch. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0004/2004) by mr casaca, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the measures taken by the commission to comply with the observations contained in the decision accompanying the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2001 (com (2003) 651 - c5-0536/2003 - 2003/22003/dec)).
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i should like to thank mr casaca for his comprehensive report. i can only take your last remark for the next financial perspective, when the regulations will indeed have to be changed. the report has been prepared with the greatest care and presented to the house on behalf of the committee on budgets. the rapporteur will discuss all the important issues addressed in the commission's follow-up report, and in particular the eurostat case and the necessary conclusions. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs theato, for her great commitment, and the rapporteur, mrs avilés perea, and mr bösch and mr sörensen for their constructive contributions. the year 2001 was the year in which the commission started implementing the administrative reform measures. we have now successfully completed a considerable reform path. but along the way we are constantly encountering things that require adjustments and improvements. in two weeks' time the commission will present the next progress report on the reforms. we will also explain in detail the measures announced by president prodi last november. at the same time, in two weeks' time, we will also be tabled amendments to the olaf regulation, which we have discussed here in the context of the bösch report. the commission will also adopt next week the progress report on the modernisation of accounting and improvements to the early warning system. last week the commission adopted a eurostat action plan as a follow-up to the restructuring decided last year, and the rapporteur has mentioned the measures here. the commission has learned from experience, particularly the eurostat affair. the serious irregularities occurred before the beginning of the term of office of this commission. the prodi commission has been criticised for not reacting more quickly to this situation. but the commission, having been fully informed of the seriousness of the case in july 2003, has taken action and we will implement the president's action plan. this will include, in particular, measures to ensure that in future the commission is more rapidly aware of problems requiring political action. the annual activity reports and the declaration of the directors-general are the cornerstones of a new and transparent system of internal control. for the third year of the activity reports we have already decided on further improvements, such as the timetable and also the more precise presentation of the reasons and facts of reservations. we have agreed on uniform internal control standards and the implementation of internal control standards will be reviewed twice a year by the central financial service of the budget directorate-general. the progress report referred to above, which my colleague neil kinnock has already informed the committee on budgetary control, confirms that all commissioners must ensure that the internal control systems decided and managed by the director-general are working satisfactorily and that commissioners must ensure that audits are accompanied by appropriate follow-up. if this is not the case, the commissioner must give instructions to make improvements. the new financial regulation, which has been in force for 13 months, has also significantly reduced the risk of fraud, in particular through new rules on the award of grants and subsidies, and contains strict rules on the exclusion of conflicts of interest. the new financial regulation introduces a change in the accounting system. it shall assign to the accounting officer of the commission the task of validating systems used for the production of accounting data. however, it is not its task to carry out central ex ante and ex post sample checks, nor does it have staff available for these purposes. the authorising officers by delegation are responsible for this and the directors-general are responsible for ensuring that the control systems are in place in accordance with the financial regulation and the sectoral rules. article 60 of the new financial regulation gives the authorising officer full responsibility for financial operations, and the prodi commission has thus implemented the recommendation made in the second report of the independent experts, which was supported by parliament. the main lessons the commission learns from the eurostat affair concern the exchange of information and inter-service cooperation, for example between the internal audit service, the internal audit capabilities and the horizontal directorates-general. indeed, it is necessary to ensure that information on irregularities reaches the political level and leads to immediate action. the committee on budgetary control of parliament has rightly placed the greatest emphasis on this throughout the debate. we have had a very difficult time over the past year because of the eurostat affair. i think that is true of the commission as well as of the work of the committee on budgetary control, and the president of the commission has spoken very extensively on all aspects here in this house on two occasions, and then we worked together to draw the necessary consequences and changes. i can assure you that the commission, which has started and is implementing the administrative reform with great commitment, will also implement the necessary additions to the reform consistently.
(es) mr president, my first words should logically be to congratulate mr casaca on the report he has presented. and not only because of the text, but also because of the work that has gone into it, the work of consensus, harmonization and prudence, in a report which, above all, must be described as complex, because, on the one hand, it carries out the follow-up work, in the strict sense, and on the other hand, it deals with an original treatment of a question which has moved us and which is moving public opinion. as regards the follow-up, i would like to highlight certain aspects such as the desire to fully implement the internal control rules, the completion of an audit of the commission's treasury system, the implementation of interest payments in the event of advances, the discussion of recovery, together with what are already traditional issues in the committee on budgetary control, such as the reform of the accounting system or the common agricultural policy - to which the rapporteur has referred - especially in the areas of export refunds or the prevention of fraud in the sector. however, as i said, there is an origin treatment, this is the first time that this has been raised in a report, of the subject of eurostat. and in connection with this subject we have seen with astonishment some questions which it is worth mentioning here. firstly, there were rules on information from the beginning of the legislature which had not been implemented. secondly, it is surprising that there is no register of owners of contracting companies and that it seems to be practically impossible to know who are the people behind the companies that participate in the commission's tenders. in short, we are still in doubt at this stage as to the extent of the facts and the determination of responsibility. and when we have tried to turn to certain sources we have found, on the one hand, the very valuable contribution of the audits and of the whistleblowers, in terms of clarifying the partial facts that we know; and, at the same time, we have found a glaring absence of information on the part of olaf, which makes us demand - as we said in this parliament, barely a month ago - the reform of its regulation, above all to prevent olaf from being an excuse to close any issue to transparency. as for the measures that have been taken, i think they are positive and valuable, for example those relating to the establishment of a smooth communication mechanism between the audit capacities of each directorate-general and the internal audit service, the search for and configuration of individual responsibility of commissioners, the protection of whistleblowers against possible retaliation or the revision of the early detection system, or blacklist, to prevent companies that have acted maliciously or ineffectively with the commission from continuing to receive contracts and grants. in short, mr president, this is an open report which also provides a bridge to the report on the discharge for 2002, at which point it will be a question of judging some of the measures proposed in this report. it will also be time to fill in some gaps in the knowledge of the facts, which we hope will come from olaf.
(es) mr president, we are dealing with the follow-up report on the discharge for 2001, which has a number of interesting points and has been very well done by the rapporteur, mr casaca, but most of us here seem to be concerned about one particular point: the fraud that was detected in eurostat just when we were finalising the discharge for 2001, i.e. when this report by mr casaca was being drawn up. unfortunately, we were not given much attention and it was not until the summer, until the month of july, that the commission became clearly aware of the serious problem it was facing and began to react. fortunately, it has started to react and to implement a series of internal reforms which were absolutely necessary and which have to put an end to an old, wrong culture and way of acting which has created a great many problems. one of them, for example, is to reduce externalities, because this means that there are fewer controls and therefore less reliability about how contracts are being made, who is being awarded those contracts and about the final result than we had foreseen when they were put out to tender. another problem that has emerged in this eurostat affair is the very poor internal information that exists within the commission, the lack of information, in some cases almost total, between the different levels, that is, between the directors-general and the commissioners, even though this commission adopted rules in 1999 that it has not put into practice. i have presented a work, which the rapporteur has taken on almost entirely, to improve the internal information of the commission because, in my view, if internal information had worked properly, a great many problems would have been avoided and we would not have reached the situation we are in now. i think we also need to review the internal reform of the commission which started with enormous enthusiasm, with the support of the whole of parliament, and which has proved to be slow, difficult and in some cases ineffective. i think, therefore, mr president, that this must lead us all to the conclusion that the problem of eurostat must be brought to the fore in order to solve this problem, but also other internal problems in the commission, which will result in better functioning and therefore benefit us all.
(es) mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the commission for its communication on the future of the textile and clothing sector, which comes at a time when the sector is very concerned about the final abolition of the import quota system on 1 january 2005, given the competitive pressure from developing countries which also have a large export capacity, which may lead to the closure of many companies and the consequent loss of jobs. china is particularly worrying, because its competitive capacity, which is the result of low business costs, is compounded by a very aggressive trade policy which has little regard for the rules governing international trade. recent studies suggest that by 2010 the european union could lose between 40% and 60% of its jobs, depending on the sector. if we add to this the fact that the european textile and clothing industry is characterized by a strong regional concentration of mainly female workers, we realize the seriousness of the situation and the urgency of a determined action by public administrations at all levels, which will enable the sector to successfully overcome the challenges it faces. it is true that the primary responsibility lies with businessmen and that they are responsible for defining the strategies and making the investments that the new circumstances require, but it is no less true that the public authorities have an obligation to guarantee them conditions which will enable them to develop. the future of the sector clearly depends on the enhancement of its comparative advantages, i.e. the quality of its products, design, the fashion factor and, above all, the capacity for innovation and the development of new products of high technological value, especially smart fabrics and industrial fabrics. and it also means the possibility of access to the international market. the commission's communication on the future of the european union's research and development policy is a good one. the problem is when and how to implement the communication measures. because it is all very well to analyse the specific problems of the sector and to point out the means of solving them successfully, but this must be done within a budget which is also specific and in line with the means required, including the setting up of a specific regional initiative to help the sector without being considered state aid and for the reintegration of workers into the labour market. it must be accompanied by the drawing up of an action plan and the adoption of a precise timetable so that the measures can be operational before the end of 2004 and, in any case, before it is too late. it must be consistent with the commission's firm commitment not to reduce the trade policy measures it proposes to eliminate unfair competition and the high tariffs, tariff peaks and non-tariff barriers which hinder access to markets. the survival of the sector and the maintenance of the thousands of jobs at stake depend on it, commissioner.
(es) mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for joining us in this debate on the problems of the textile and clothing sector. there is no doubt that this debate is taking place, among other things, because of the commission's communication on the textile industry in the context of an enlarged europe, for which i would like to congratulate the commission in particular. the communication proposes a series of measures to support the efforts of the sector to define a strategy to meet the new market challenges and, more specifically, to face the abolition of import quotas as from 1 january 2005. recent or imminent events, such as china's entry into the wto or the disappearance of quotas or tariffs for certain products, require that problems be tackled quickly. this communication proposes some measures which are, in my view, urgent. firstly, the importance of both community and national policies to encourage smes to invest in direct r & d and innovation activities as a means of incorporating new production processes, to encourage creativity and fashion and, consequently, to increase the competitiveness of the sector on the global market. in this connection i would like to point out that some initiatives, such as the creation of support offices for smes to enable them to access the protection of intellectual property rights such as trademarks, designs or patents, are worthy of note, and commissioner busquin spoke to me about these initiatives recently. secondly, i would like to refer to the need to reach agreements within the wto so that, as a necessary element of trade liberalisation, some countries which are our competitors or which can access our markets at zero or very low tariffs, will reduce their currently high tariffs. finally, i consider it very important that the commission implements the measures proposed in relation to the protection of intellectual property. their respect for third countries and the monitoring of compliance with the apic agreements are essential to make the fight against piracy and counterfeiting effective. i hope that the early adoption of the directive on procedures for the protection of intellectual property rights and the reform of the customs regulation will become essential instruments for the protection of this industrial property which is so necessary in many sectors, including textiles.
- the next item is the report (a5-0480/2003) by mr laschet, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on relations between the european union and the united nations (2003/2049 (ini)).
commission. mr president, i very much welcome this opportunity to discuss relations between the european union and the united nations, and i want to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the quality of his report. nobody who knows the honourable member will be surprised that it is really an outstanding and sensible piece of work. i would also like to stress at the outset that the commission is obviously ready to enter into a more regular dialogue with the parliament on relations between us and the united nations. it is important for both the commission and the parliament to have such an exchange of views on such an important subject. it is only when parliament, council and commission – and indeed the member states – work well together that the european union collectively can deliver the support that is needed for the un system. as the honourable member said, the timing of the report is extremely appropriate. the iraq crisis has, in many ways, served as a wake-up call for us all on the essential role of the un in questions of peace and security. the union is an important partner of the un and we should stand by our commitment to effective multilateralism. the full support of the house for this endeavour is important and i welcome it, especially on the day that un secretary-general kofi annan will address the parliament. the full commission had the great privilege and pleasure of spending two-and-a-half hours talking to him yesterday. the commission set out its views on the subject in a communication of 10 september 2003, entitled 'the choice of multilateralism'. the purpose of the communication was threefold. first and foremost, it was to reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism and the un. second, it was to demonstrate the manner in which we implement this commitment in our daily work. the paper provides an impressive inventory of the extensive cooperation between the eu and the un that is already taking place, and of our support for un activities on a wide number of issues, ranging from conflict prevention to development aid and from crisis management to poverty reduction. whilst the issues of peace and security that are dealt with by the security council attract most of the media attention, it would be a mistake to focus our attention and support only on those questions. third, we identify a large number of practical actions to improve our internal coordination on un questions in the un bodies themselves, in brussels and also in the member states, with the overall aim of enhancing our influence in the un, and in an attempt to assist it more effectively. in response to this communication, the council recently agreed on a set of comprehensive conclusions on eu-un relations that provides a good platform for our future work. this debate takes place at a time when the union is looking for an enhanced role on the international stage. witness to this are not only the proposals of the convention to streamline the cfsp and the eu’s external action more generally – and here i note in particular the proposal to let the proposed foreign minister speak on behalf of the union in the security council whenever there is a common eu position – but also the european security strategy with its leading theme of effective multilateralism. the european union should be ready to stand up for its belief in the importance of the united nations. i think that parliament’s report represents an additional strong signal of support from the european union at this challenging moment for the un. after the iraq crisis many in the international community have made great efforts to find our way back towards collective action, including renewed un engagement in iraq. of course, it is not enough to keep referring to multilateralism over and over again as though it was some mantra. we need to think seriously and creatively about the kinds of results we want to obtain from multilateral organisations and instruments. how can we improve their effectiveness in dealing with the threats and challenges that the world is facing? these include poverty reduction, weapons of mass destruction, failed states, international crime, terrorism, climate change. and how best can we contribute to that endeavour? all these goals are addressed by the parliament’s report and there is a broad meeting of minds with the commission’s own communication on the subject. it is clear that our common starting point is the belief that the un system is the key to safeguarding international security in the largest sense of that term. whether we are looking at the role of the international atomic energy agency in checking the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or whether we are looking at global targets for poverty reduction and sustainable development, i hardly need to underline the importance of the so-called soft issues for the wider security agenda. development and security are inextricably linked and mutually dependent. it is in this perspective that we should support the work of the high-level panel on un reform established by the secretary-general last year. the european union should provide an input to this process and i welcome the intention of the council presidency to work on the submission of an eu contribution. the commission will participate actively in this exercise. finally, as regards the european union’s own internal coordination and operations of the un, i am pleased to see that the commission’s analysis and recommendations are very much in line with those that are presented in the honourable member’s admirable report. as for the creation and subsequent implementation of multilateral instruments, the commission shares the report’s opinion that the european union should play a leading role and assist third countries in fulfilling their obligations, as we have done, for example, in relation to counter-terrorism. parliament could in this context use its cooperation with third countries to address these kinds of issues and in that way help to build bridges between north and south. let me conclude by commending the report to the house and by underlining as well the commission’s determination to work closely with the parliament, with the council and with the un to implement the recommendations that are contained in it. (applause)
(es) mr president, addressing the united nations general assembly last september, its secretary-general, kofi annan, said quite literally: 'the last twelve months have been very painful for all of us who believe in collective responses to our common problems and challenges.' it was a time when many voices in the political world, in the media, and a large part of the public believed in a kind of failure of the united nations. the subsequent developments, particularly in iraq, have shown that things are never simple, and the present situation is characterized by the words of a spanish song which says 'neither with you nor without you have my sorrows a remedy'. neither with the united nations - which has shown, not in iraq but in previous terrible crises, for example in rwanda, its impotence to prevent tragic outcomes - nor without the united nations, as is now demonstrated in this stupid impasse of an intervention which has no political solution in a country like iraq. the position of our group in the laschet report has been broadly consistent, with emphasis on some essential points. the first of these is a strong commitment to principles and values. to the stupid criticism of those who claim that this is idealism, one might reply that values are interests. in our societies and in the world, the application of principles and values is our main concern. and if we are talking about lower interests, we can say that the material contribution of the european union or its countries to the united nations is so important and so unbalanced with its political weight within its system that it necessarily implies a commitment by the european union to move towards a modification of the present state of affairs. this has two routes: one is the establishment of a strong common foreign and defence policy for the european union; the other is to move towards a presence of the european union in the security council in a possibilist way and on the basis of accelerating the current constituent process, which allows the voice of the peoples, through their representatives, to be respected by the governments and to arrive as soon as possible at the establishment of a european constitution which allows the development of a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name.
(es) mr president, today is a great day for a pluralist legislative assembly such as ours, both because of this very well-drawn-up report by mr laschet, for which all sorts of suggestions have been accepted, and because of the presence of the un secretary-general, kofi annan, to receive the sakharov prize, which means a strengthening of international law as the only way to resolve conflicts on the international scene. our group does not have a uniform view of mr laschet's report - although i acknowledge that the contributions made have been accepted - since there is from scepticism to favourable positions as befits a plural group. however, i would like to point out that we attach great importance to this report and to the commission's contribution to improving the international situation, and that we are clearly committed to multilateralism - as i have said to you before - although we think that the situation gives too much weight to what would be anti-terrorist aspects and not enough to what would be better cooperation on the international scene in order to eliminate the causes of inequalities and injustices, such as the democratic control by the un of agencies such as the world trade organization, the international monetary fund or the world bank, which are ultimately the agents that allow for greater justice in the world. that is why, while being aware of the need to improve the relationship between the european union and the un, which is the key to a panorama of respect for human rights and international law, we think that a little more progress should have been made in improving the conditions for greater justice in the world. that is why in this report, in mr laschet's report, our position is going to be divided into several different positions.
(es) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr laschet, for his report. i think it is no exaggeration to say that today history is merging with the present, and that in this historical present that we have had to live through, the european union and the united nations are two of the main actors. commissioner patten has made it clear that the european union is seeking to assert its presence on the international scene and to become a factor of stability, moderation and normative power in a world order, under shared leadership. and the united nations must become more operational and more effective in order to adapt to the new circumstances. from the founding spirit of the san francisco charter to the 21st century, from 60 nations to 190, from colonial regimes to independence and the fall of the block system to today's globalized world. today, after the lessons of 11 september, it is clear that the notions of security, defence policy, trade, conflict prevention, crisis management, humanitarian aid, culture and even civilization are all intermingling concepts which must be reflected in the common awareness that, in the face of the dangers and threats which affect us all equally, the response must also be that of all equally. but that response, the european union's response, cannot be fragmented, contradictory and ineffective: it must be a united response. that is why, mr president, beyond the parliamentary dimension of the european union's relations with the united nations - which is necessary and desirable - it is important that we act in a concerted, complementary way, and that the european union clearly shows that its strength is its unity and that its weakness is its fragmentation. so we are either moving towards areas of shared sovereignty between the member states, or we will be forced to cede them to other powers which are fully aware of the advantages of unity and size. and either we stop voting differently in the united nations 60 times out of 100, or we have to give up the european union's aspirations to be in that race for shared global leadership for good. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that i share the indignation expressed by mr ribeiro castro at the forced absence of the sakharov prize winner from this parliament, mr oswaldo payá.
mr president, in 1945 the charter of the united nations stood for equal rights for all nations, large and small, as the best guarantee to maintain international peace and security. its first article proclaimed the principle of self-determination of peoples. 20 years later, in 1966, the first article of the un international covenant on civil and political rights reaffirmed that all peoples have the right to self-determination. unfortunately, the draft constitutional treaty of the european union contains no recognition whatsoever of the right to self-determination for the peoples of the stateless nations of europe. i should like to remind you that under article 103 of the united nations charter, in the event of a conflict between the obligations of countries as members of the united nations and their obligations under any other international agreement, the charter shall prevail. let me finish by quoting you an enlightening statement given by mr annan as he presented his millennium report in april 2000: 'the best way to prevent conflict is to promote political arrangements in which all groups are fairly represented'.
the rapporteur. (es) mr president, it was already clear in the debate yesterday that there are parts of this report, in which there is an express reference to olaf, which are removed from it on the recommendation of the legal services as they are not admissible, so those parts are not voted on.
(es) mr president, i ask on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the socialist group that, because of the time, the vote be postponed until the next partsession in strasbourg.
(es) mr president, i would like to explain the abstention of our group, the european people's party, on amendment no 1 to mr casaca's report. the word 'abstention' evokes a common expression in the polls, such as 'does not know, does not answer' and in this case we believe that the members of this parliament do not yet know the extent of the facts, referring to eurostat, or the possible responsibilities that follow from them. and it does not answer, in the sense that an agency like olaf, which is responsible for combating fraud, has not yet provided this parliament or any of its committees with adequate information on the subject, which could illustrate and give a complete picture. in these circumstances, a vote in favour of the amendment would mean that we have a complete knowledge of the facts and can judge accordingly, and determine responsibilities. a vote against would mean that we also have knowledge of the facts and that we close the case as if it were over, without any responsibility. so it was better to wait for news that might come from olaf. i cannot help but notice the inconsistency which we feel has occurred this morning in parliament, where the majority has rejected individual responsibility for the commissioners, immediately after making an individual mention, which in our view constitutes an unfair mention because it is untimely, partial and hasty. we are counting on olaf's prompt provision of data to make a reasoned judgment.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr high representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me, on behalf of the socialist group, to welcome the secretary-general of the united nations, mr kofi annan, today. my group had the honour of nominating the secretary-general for the sakharov prize, and i would like to thank the other political groups for the overwhelming majority we obtained in parliament to express a common will to recognise the hard and heroic work of the united nations and to encourage it to persevere in the noble cause of world peace and stability. my group would like to pay tribute not only to sergio vieira de mello and the others who fell in a heroic struggle, but also to acknowledge the efforts of many officials and officials of the united nations who continue their work, and i would like to mention here two symbolic names, those of mr blix and mr el baradei, who have done important work for peace and for the reduction of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. in the last two years we have seen not only the onslaught of terrorism which has caused the death of many innocent people, but also an unprecedented assault on international institutions, and in particular on the un. that is why, mr secretary-general, i would like to reaffirm the importance of solidarity and close cooperation between peoples and nations. in this sense, you have given us a lesson today on the importance of migration, and i say to you, on behalf of my group, that we thank you for that courageous and committed speech, because we are in a world where globalisation applies to capital, services and products; and ... (applause)... and it does not apply to people. i take from your speech what we have to do in the european union, and i also offer our cooperation in the work you have undertaken on the reform of the united nations, so that the un, the international monetary fund, the world bank, the world trade organization and the international labour organization can work together. i believe that this is a common cause on which both the european union and the united nations must work. and i would also like to say, mr president, in conclusion, that we are clearly committed to multilateralism versus unilateralism, to preventive action versus preventive attacks, and that the united nations is not said to be incapable, namibia, south africa, mozambique, el salvador, haiti, nicaragua, cambodia, guatemala, kosovo, timor, sierra leone, liberia, congo show that the united nations is necessary, that it is important, and that it is a legitimate and noble cause for us to support their efforts. (laughter)
(es) mr president, as rapporteur for the owninitiative report on council directive 93/104/ec on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, i would ask that the vote be held on wednesday instead of tomorrow, as there are negotiations between various parliamentary groups and i was asked to do so a moment ago. so, if possible, we would like to continue working tomorrow and have the report voted on wednesday.
commission. mr president, it was a very interesting discussion and it is obvious that this is a hot political and economic issue. members discussed many questions. i would particularly like to underline the discussion on regulation: whether this regulation concerns only transparency and criteria of transparency or whether it should be more binding. then there is the interesting issue of an independent authority, what kind of entity that would be and whether we should agree to establish it at european level. another major issue is the registration of these companies and whether they have to be registered at european or at national level. the commission agrees with many of the points the katiforis report has made, but it will present its final position at the end of spring or at the latest in autumn. i would like to thank mr katiforis again for his very interesting contribution.
thank you very much, commissioner. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0026/2004) by mr cercas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the organisation of working time (review of directive 93/104/ec) (2003/2165 (ini)).
the rapporteur. {es) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main purpose of my report is to examine two articles of council directive 93/104/ec on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. ten years ago this important directive was adopted, which regulates certain fundamental elements for the health and safety of employees, such as daily rest and holiday periods. the directive also sets the maximum weekly working time at 48 hours, although it allows its average calculation to be made over a reference period of four months. the adoption of this important directive - one of the most important in the community's social order - was not peaceful. the united kingdom's resistance was only defeated before the court of justice and, for ten years, two temporary exceptions had to be made to the reference period in which the 48 hours per week were calculated, and to the actual application of the 48 hours per week in those countries which wished to regulate this exception to the will of the workers, provided that this was expressed in a credible and free way: this is what is known as individual opting-out. the commission and the council should have reviewed these temporary derogations before 26 november. however, unfortunately, the commission did not communicate its analyses or proposals on that date. it was not until 30 december 2003 that it submitted a communication to us or opened a consultation period, and yet its text lacks concrete proposals on the most pressing issues. what the commission has done - and i am grateful for that - is to commission a study from the university of cambridge - by barnard, deakin and hobbs - on the use made of the opt-out by the country which adopted it - the united kingdom - which gives us a thorough insight into the negative consequences of its massive use and abuse in a labour market where it has been applied in a general way. my report was concerned solely with reviewing these two exceptions in order to answer, not with a tongue-in-cheek but with clarity, the mandatory question of the directive: ten years after adoption, does it make sense to continue extending the reference periods? does it make sense to maintain the principle that the 48-hour maximum does not apply through individual opt-outs? both questions, i believe in my report, must be answered in the light of the principles which defined the adoption of the directive: the health and safety of workers. these must be accompanied by a third element: flexibility, which the commission itself points out in its communication. we must ensure that the working and family lives of europeans are reconciled. my proposals are also clear. on the basis of our objective information, there is no reason to repeal the extension of reference periods which have proved useful and have not, at least for the time being, caused serious consequences for the health and safety of workers, but on the contrary, there is overwhelming evidence that the opt-out seriously infringes minimum rights to health and safety and is a serious risk to the reconciliation of family and professional life. the debate and the vote in the committee on employment have been very hard. i hope we can continue working and getting closer tomorrow. i have personally been open to the element of flexibility, including the problem of the doctor's watch which has been introduced into this debate. i've been flexible, as is the directive. i have not stopped saying, and i will continue to say until the end, that individual opt-outs set very serious precedents: minimum rights, mr president, are inalienable. if today workers are forced or allowed to waive basic rights, such as maximum working hours, tomorrow, with the same argument, they could be allowed to waive other fundamental elements of their health and safety, work in noisy, dusty environments, remove protective barriers on construction sites, waive maternity rights and many other things. and all in the name of individual liberty, which disappears when it is applied. it's a terrible precedent for this. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that our charter of fundamental rights and article 137 of the treaty oblige us to curb the wishes of those who do not want european standards. opting-out is not a flexible rule: it is the absence of rules. by allowing someone to be exempted from a basic legislation of minimum fundamental rights, the absence of rules is being defended. and i hope that all colleagues will give this a thorough thought. we cannot offer victory to those who do not want to see the social europe built, to those who are allergic to the minimum standards which the workers of our continent have enjoyed for more than a century.
(es) mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, we are faced with a report which seems to me to be of profound social, legal and political significance. this is because the completion of the internal market must lead to an improvement in working conditions, because the community will support and complement the action of the member states in the fields of the protection of the safety and health of workers, as required by article 137 of the ec treaty, and because every worker has the right to limitation of the maximum working time, to daily and weekly rest periods, and to a period of paid annual leave, as well as to working conditions which respect his health, safety and dignity, as proclaimed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the question is very simple, therefore, in a theoretical approach. the first aspect is that of the reference periods for the application of article 6 (maximum weekly working time): four months, as laid down in article 16 of the directive, or, where appropriate, possibilities of extension in the cases provided for in article 17: up to six and twelve months if this is done by collective agreements or agreements concluded between the social partners. the second aspect is the option not to apply article 6 if the worker gives his consent, that is the opt-out system, as has already been said here. the extension of the reference periods obviously has the consequence of extending the flexibility granted to undertakings. the only limit would thus be 11 hours of daily rest or 24 hours of weekly rest, but the directive would lose its purpose to regulate only the maximum working time every four months, every six months or every year, as the case may be. as regards the opting-out, the possibility of abuse is evident, particularly in the face of the situation of legal equality but not economic equality between the protagonists of working life. directive 93/104/ec is intended to ensure a better level of protection of the safety and health of workers, as reiterated in directive 2000/34/ec itself. it is therefore necessary to seek effective solutions for the situations and activities which require it, such as those referred to in the simap and jäger judgments, but with objective criteria or conditions, with general and non-abusive uses, and in any event without turning the exception into the general rule. i therefore believe that we should seek agreements before the vote to reconcile the legal guarantees for workers with flexibility, in the spirit of directive 93/104/ec.
(es) mr president, i join in the general praise of mr garot's excellent report, which is as timely as it is necessary. mr president, mr garot's rigorous analysis confirms our concern about the danger of cap reform if its negative impact on agricultural incomes is not counteracted. i am very sorry for the serious mistake and incoherence of some colleagues who, on the one hand, praise the report because it is good, but, on the other hand, announce that they will not support it. mr president, the fundamental objective of the cap is to guarantee a fair standard of living for the agricultural population. europe needs a viable and multifunctional agriculture, but that means protecting the european model, creating a crisis management system, guaranteeing employment and strengthening the resources devoted to the second pillar. that is all mr garot proposes in this magnificent work. paragraph 7 - for the commission to apply - is particularly important, since it points out that production costs tend to rise while aid tends to fall; paragraph 17 deals with the guarantee of employment; and paragraphs 24 and 25 deal with the second pillar. finally, mr president, the commission should take account of the consideration made by mr garot in paragraph 25 on cofinancing as a requirement which may hamper rural development, in order to make this cofinancing requirement more flexible at the stage of reform of the cap.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0022/2004) by mr garot, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the development of agricultural incomes in the european union (2002/2258 (ini)).
- thank you very much, mr. wachtmeister. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 120)
- the next item is the report (a5-0018/2004) by mr graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on agriculture and agricultural research in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy (2003/2052 (ini)).
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for this report and also thank the members of the european parliament for the initiative they have taken. the commission welcomes this report because we believe that it provides a good basis for the preparation of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, in particular, and that it can be used there. as you know, the decoupled payments under the new common agricultural policy will enable farmers to become more competitive on the one hand, but also to become more market oriented on the other. here too, research can make a major contribution to improvement by developing more efficient production methods, diversifying and introducing new competitive crops. in addition, research can help to enable farmers to meet the requirements of what we call cross-compliance and, more importantly, to provide a scientific basis for what is meant by good agricultural and environmental practice or positive status. rural development programmes record what the regions want and need. local actors, civil society and academia must also be closely involved. this was also stated at the conference in salzburg last year. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the sustainability of agriculture and rural development clearly needs to be a priority in research policy too. however, the content of the sixth framework programme is largely fixed and only minor changes can be made to the annual work programmes. we must therefore focus very much on the preparation of the seventh framework programme. the commission considers research into alternative production methods and sources of income in rural areas to be a priority. the priority is also to move away from one-off approaches and to explore the whole chain, from the farm to the consumer's table. in this context, food safety and food quality issues naturally continue to play a very special role. it is also important that the public is involved in the research debate and that the results are evaluated. in this context, the 'science for society' conference was held on 14 and 15 october 2002, and a second such conference will be held in february 2005. research to improve marker vaccines needs to be extended to other list a diseases. but of course there are budgetary constraints. the same applies to research into medicines for less widespread animal species and plant protection products for crops not widely grown. the problem is that private research is losing ground, because the profits are clearly not so great unless large quantities of medicines or plant protection products are involved. i think that public research should contribute here. i also share the view that social and environmental research must be strengthened for the sustainable development of rural areas and that research is needed that can particularly support the role of women in rural development, as you mentioned earlier, mr graefe zu baringdorf. in the light of the principle of subsidiarity, i also share the view that on-farm research should be promoted, with a focus on appropriate management and diversification. research on the use of agricultural raw materials is already under way under the priority 'scientific support for policy'. under the current and previous framework programmes, projects have been financed for organic farming and low-cost farming. in this context, however, it must also be remembered that, particularly when we are in the middle of a wto negotiating round, it should also be a matter of delivering research dealing with international issues and in particular with issues concerning developing countries. finally, i should like to mention that we cannot simply ignore biotechnology research, because here too, with the appropriate research intensity, we can expect to see results in the future that can be useful to us in agriculture. the commission is aware of the importance of parliament's report and of the need for a communication on the future direction, structure and promotion of agricultural research in europe, and will be presenting such a communication. (applause from the centre)
(es) mr president, the common agricultural policy is beginning to undergo the greatest transformation in its entire history; it would therefore be a grave mistake to continue research on parameters which have become obsolete. that is why we must change the approach to agricultural research. this is precisely the challenge facing mr graefe zu baringdorf in this own-initiative report from the european parliament. it does so very successfully with a report which i think is excellent. it essentially proposes that the sixth and seventh research framework programmes be changed in line with this new approach. the commissioner told us that the sixth programme was in operation - and so says the report - but i think we did arrive in time for the commissioner to make some amendments concerning the role of women in rural development, as it seems he is going to do. it is also very important that this perspective be formulated in the preparation of the seventh framework programme for research, which considers research on sustainable agriculture and rural development. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is a very good one. the report supports research to improve the quality and safety of food from farm to fork and highlights the importance of family farming, small and medium-sized traders. it is a totally innovative approach, because we must remember that this family farming has been forgotten until now. small and medium-sized traders had also been forgotten in the past and immediate intensive agriculture. all this had been relegated to research, and this is precisely what the rapporteur is now advocating as a profound change, an approach which reconsiders agricultural research from the bottom up, as is necessary, that is to say, a reorientation of research in the service of agriculture in harmony with nature. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur again and ask the commissioner to change this approach as soon as possible and to allocate the funds which the european parliament is asking for today.
- thank you very much, mr. hyland. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0024/2004) by mr souchet, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on measures to restore the northern hake stock (com (2003) 374 - c5-0314/2003 - 2003/0137 (cns)).
(es) mr president, commissioner - we thank you for your presence - ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr souchet, on the excellent report he has presented to us on a subject which was not easy, namely the northern hake. firstly, the commission put forward a proposal which, in principle, was to be combined with cod - and which our parliament rejected, as has been said here. secondly, it made a separate proposal, but a very rigid and severe one, which equated cod with cod, with a real recovery plan and with fishing effort. our parliament was consulted at the same time as the council, and the negotiations were conducted in parallel, which obliged our rapporteur to be flexible in adopting our draft report. mr souchet has seriously studied the cod matter - as he has said here, we have called the sector into our committee on fisheries - and he has presented a report which fundamentally changes the commission's views, which we thank and fully support. i should also like to thank mr souchet for accepting the many amendments which we had tabled on behalf of the group of the european people's party - a gesture for which i am very grateful - because we have succeeded in making the recovery plan not a recovery plan but a genuine management plan. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to this: it is a genuine management plan without fishing effort, as the sector was asking us to do. the souchet report is coherent, sound, reasonable and combines the defence of sustainable and responsible fishing for northern hake with the social and economic aspects of the fisheries sector. the combination of both is something fundamental that we hope will be taken into account in the future. we believe that the future regional advisory committees will have to help us to avoid missteps and to present proposals for fisheries management agreed between scientists and the sector itself. for the future management plan for southern hake we have also appointed mr souchet as rapporteur. although it may be the next parliament to be elected after the june elections that will have to look after this matter, the committee on fisheries will have to hold the necessary sessions so that, after consulting the advisory committees set up in this connection, scientists and the sector can take part in the discussions on southern hake, and this will have to be developed in parallel with the socioeconomic measures which we have already requested and adopted in the modification of the fifg. more importantly, in future the fifg should already include socioeconomic measures so that any recovery or management plan is automatically accompanied by the corresponding socioeconomic measures. we congratulate mr souchet once again and hope that with this report, which we will be voting on tomorrow, we have taken a very important step in supporting sustainable fishing and the fisheries sector.
(es) mr president, on 27 june 2003 the commission published a new proposal with the aim of ensuring the sustainable recovery of the northern hake population and its reduction within what is considered a safe biological limit, a precautionary biomass level of 165 000 tonnes. firstly, and this is something to be thanked for, the commission has finally decided to separate the cod and hake stocks into two different plans. it could not be otherwise after the obvious improvement in cod stocks, a direct consequence of the management measures applied by the sector for two years. but when we look at the proposed measures, we also find that the commission does not take into account the best available scientific information, nor does it dispel the doubts of the fishing industry, because, once again, there has been no dialogue with scientists and the proposal has been drawn up without serious involvement of the professionals. the commission is basing itself on scientific opinions, the content of which it does not specify and which, as the rapporteur mr souchet very well says in his explanatory statement, it has not disclosed to the committee on fisheries, despite our request. the precautionary biomass should have been established in the light of these scientific reports which have not existed. nor does this biomass appear to be proportionate to the status of the affected population, as the latest independent scientific reports and observations of practitioners show that it is not below safe biological limits. nor do we have any scientific assessments from ices to guarantee that the proposed reduction in fishing effort will lead to an effective reduction in catches, nor an assessment of the effects of the technical recovery measures - to which i have referred earlier - which have been applied for two years and have produced such good results. the commission proposal also does not seek to strike a balance between biological recovery and socioeconomic impacts. once again, i have to say, the approach is based on purely biological considerations and does not take into account the socioeconomic context by advocating the restoration of stocks within a year, instead of adopting a progressive approach based on multiannual tacs, which is incompatible with the survival capacity of companies in this sector. the technical measures, which, as we have said, have produced good results, are being scorned in the olympic spirit. what mr souchet proposes in his report, namely the replacement of this recovery plan by a multiannual management plan, is the result not only of the analysis - i believe it is correct - of the european parliament's committee on fisheries and of our own debate, but also of the guidelines already defined by the european parliament itself and by mr souchet himself in relation to the management of fragile stocks: the application of simple and flexible rules, such as multiannual tacs, instead of rigid systems of uncertain effects, such as measures based on fishing effort.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and thank him for his attitude to the amendments i have tabled. the european commission's initial proposal to introduce a recovery plan for northern hake was - or at least did not appear to be - nothing more than an unjustified transposition of the measures applied to the recovery of cod into this fishery. the executive committee obviously did not take account of the latest ices opinions, according to which the cod stock will reach a degree of complete safety if the level of fishing mortality is maintained over the next five to eight years. it will therefore reach a safe biological level, to use the words recently used by the commissioner. according to these data, there is no need to implement a drastic recovery plan for northern hake. instead of a recovery plan, a management plan of the type provided for in article 6 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 would be more appropriate, in compatibility and also consistent with the biological and environmental component on the one hand and the socioeconomic component on the other, within the new common fisheries policy. and this is the intention expressed by parliament's committee on fisheries in its opinion: to replace the recovery plan proposed by the commission, with severe restrictions on fishing effort and very serious social consequences, by a management plan which provides for the establishment of a total allowable catch compatible with the maintenance of reproductive biomass. the european commission has recently put forward another proposal for the recovery of the southern hake and cichlid stocks, and has not calculated the socioeconomic consequences that the proposed measures could have for the sector. a scientific study is therefore lacking, as is the opinion of the new regional advisory councils envisaged in the reform of the common fisheries policy. i would also like to point out, mr president, that the council of fisheries ministers last december undertook to take account of the professionals in the sector before drawing up an action plan for these species. the involvement and participation of the sector in decision-making should not be forgotten when these decisions put at stake the viability of the fishing activity, jobs, living conditions and the very livelihood of families living in european regions heavily dependent on fisheries policy. and i think that this involvement and this participation must be vindicated.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i have listened very carefully to what the individual members have said on arguments and problems, and i would therefore like to deal with the amendments on that basis. i should like to begin by saying that i reject all those amendments which seek to change the name of the whole thing from recovery plan to management plan, because it is still a recovery plan. i think it is wrong to sugarcoat the situation, but i am happy to admit that the situation for northern hake is less dramatic than for northern cod. as for amendment no 2, i must reject it because this recital is already in the framework regulation on the common fisheries policy. it is not so much a question of rejecting it as of simply not having it. amendment no 5 and the consultation of the regional advisory councils, or racs, as they are also known, is a matter on which i can assure you that, once they are in place, we will of course consult them regularly on this matter. however, this does not require a reason, because that is precisely the purpose of the racs, that they are consulted on such matters. i reject amendment no 6 because the sea-buck stocks are below the precautionary level and therefore not yet within biologically safe limits. amendment no 7 is about the need for criteria to determine when a replenishment has been achieved. it is simply not acceptable to set, so to speak, politically when the replenishment is achieved. that's a scientific question. i reject amendments nos 12 and 27 because the additional control measures are absolutely necessary. the fishermen themselves are the ones who complain about the unequal controls. we need this. i can accept part of amendment no 15 and i am in favour of changing the precautionary value for biomass. i cannot accept amendment no 16, however. we should not be setting priorities for scientific advice at this point. it would be a bit too easy to say that the practical observations of fishermen are of higher importance than the systematic studies of scientific institutes. the fishermen are, of course, asked to contribute their data. some of the uncertainty in scientific advice is precisely that there is a lack of it, because fishermen tend to only share data which they believe will influence the advice in their favour. i can accept some of amendments nos 19 and 20. the fishing rules are based on a fishing mortality rate of 0.25, and this is the value we included in the proposal at the december council. i cannot accept amendment no 21, however. the proposal was amended following the december council meeting to give the council more flexibility in fixing tacs. the minimum size is no longer required to be reached within a year, but the tac can be set so that it can be reached over a longer period. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i regret to say that i must also reject amendments nos 22 and 23, because if they were taken into account, this would mean that the tacs would change by more than 15% from one year to the next, and that is unacceptable. we must have the same range of variation in both directions, otherwise the regulation is not balanced. i can accept amendments nos 8, 11, 18, 24 and 26 in their entirety.
- thank you very much, inspector. ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda was the commission's statement on salmon, but at 4.30 p.m. we have the commission's statement on the financial perspective, and it cannot be postponed. the president of parliament will chair the debate and the president of the commission, mr prodi, will be present. in order not to spoil the salmon report by interrupting it five minutes after it has begun, we will therefore postpone the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.25 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.)
mr president, i plead for indulgence. indeed, this probably is my last speech in this house – at least from this seat, as i am in the chair tomorrow and thursday.
(es) mr president, i agree with the initial diagnosis made by the president of the commission, mr prodi, when he said that recent history has been made up of an impressive array of dogmas that have been relativized, of impossibilities that have become reality and of perennial realities, such as the berlin wall, which have fallen like the cedars of lebanon, of which the classic writer spoke to us. i think that is the context in which this commission communication must be placed, in which the future prospects must face up to the new circumstances. this commission communication will have to be supplemented by the own-initiative report which will be prepared by the committee on budgets of this parliament and adapted to the new circumstances of enlargement: the european elections will result in a new parliament and a new commission. in any case, i think we should welcome the work of the commission and the new budget headings: sustainable development, putting people at the centre of our project and promoting more visible and effective external action by the european union. i would also like to emphasize very clearly the alternative presented by president prodi, namely that we should choose between the two models of europe. and he told us that, between the europe of the tangible, the cash and the sound, the net balance and the net beneficiary, he has chosen a model compatible with the previous one, which is a higher model and is that of the europe of values, the europe of peace, understanding, harmony and solidarity. solidarity must go hand in hand with the spirit and strategy of lisbon. that is why, mr president, i welcome the strategic choice made by the commission today to present a communication which is not based on a model of a selfish europe but on a model which has been able to put figures at the service of ideals.
(es) mr president, the community was born to achieve peace and prosperity, a wise and twofold objective, because it is not possible to achieve one without the other. and one of its fundamental pillars is social and territorial cohesion, that is, the real equality of all citizens by combating existing imbalances and inequalities of wealth and opportunity. in two months' time the union will be enlarged with the addition of ten new member states and some 75 million citizens. their wealth is far below the current average of the europe of the fifteen and, if we want to continue to maintain our dual community objective, if we want to overcome the inequality with regard to these new europeans, we cannot contemplate devoting less public resources to this end but, on the contrary, increasing our efforts of solidarity. in this connection, i would like to point out that in recent years the community's real expenditure, payment appropriations, has been falling in relation to gross national income, while this income has been steadily declining as a result of inflation. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action on the matter. i support the commission's proposal so that there are no reductions in the future.
(es) mr president, mr president of the commission, representatives of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the commission's communication on the new financial perspectives as an interesting exercise in debate for the future. it is not the commission or parliament that will take the final decisions, but here is the result and the effort of the whole college of commissioners to take account of the various sensitivities is to be commended. we take it as a good bargaining chip. a well-negotiated financial perspective between the three institutions is the key to the orderly development of union spending and to ensuring growth, competitiveness, employment and economic and social cohesion in a framework of budgetary stability. that is the financial perspective on which this parliament would like to vote. we would never vote for a financial perspective based on a simple accounting calculation or imposed unilaterally by one institution without negotiating with the others. this parliament has already expressed its views on three elements of the financial perspective: the first of these, duration, which as a general principle should correspond as far as possible to the duration of the mandates of the european parliament and the commission. secondly, we have also called for greater impetus to the political objectives of lisbon and gothenburg. its development is shown in the annual budgets of the union and it is clear that without sufficient financial resources there are no credible objectives, and if not, look at the draft budget for 2005 and you will see what budgetary constraints are. thirdly, we have repeatedly called for a sufficient financial perspective to meet the cohesion objective. cohesion is and will be the great inspiration of the union's policies, along with growth and stability. the 0.45% of gross national income for the cohesion effort has been incorporated by this parliament and is part of our thinking. saving money with cohesion policy is a sure way to failure.
- question no 7 by mr dupuis: the next item is question time, but we shall begin with a point of order from mr dupuis, to whom i shall give the floor for a brief comment.
- mr dupuis, it is the commission which decides which commissioners will be present at question time and which questions will be allocated. in any event, we are taking note of what you have said and will pass it on to the commission. the next item is question time (b5-0007/2004). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. the first part
- question no 34 by mr pimenta question no 35 by gerard collins (h-0851/03) subject: measures to promote low-cost air travel can the commission give details of the measures it is promoting to support low-cost air travel in europe, given that the vast majority of eu citizens fully support and recognise the importance of low-cost airlines within the eu?
vice-president of the commission. (es) as a result of the liberalization of air transport in the european union in the early 1990s - which was also done on the basis of legislative proposals from the commission - we can see how competition has increased between the different airlines in the european union and how users benefit from lower fares and a better offer. in this same context, a new phenomenon has emerged: the so-called low-cost companies. the commission sees this as a positive development: it increases the supply to passengers, it means more economic activity, more opportunities for consumers and, moreover, it is raising the possibility of cheaper fares. the commission's action is to ensure this development by strictly applying the competition and state aid rules. in this respect, i have to say that it is not our job to support this or that sector, but to provide balanced rules which allow the development of the different types of aviation activity: the traditional companies with their type of business and the new companies, the so-called low-cost companies, which have a somewhat different market and which have undoubtedly considerably increased competition, supply and possibilities for the user.
vice-president of the commission. (es) i believe that, on the contrary, the solution and the answer which the commission has given in the ryanair charleroi case - which, rather than being about ryanair, is about the state aid given by charleroi airport, and that is the problem - opens up new possibilities for the promotion and development of regional airports, which are engines of regional development, and for the operation from these airports of the so-called 'low-cost companies'. i think the commission's decision is a balanced one. the commission has also concluded that the airport services agreement with ryanair was not in line with the market economy operator principle. however, it has placed some limits on them, in terms of time and above all in terms of the availability of such aid to any other company that is willing to carry out the same type of activity, in the interests of equal treatment for all companies operating in europe and transparency in this type of operation. but i would like to reiterate that the decision on charleroi is a bet on regional airports and low-cost airlines. it should be remembered that in the charleroi case we did not act on our own initiative but because complaints had been lodged with the commission and because the commission, as the honourable member knows, is obliged to resolve them. in fact, complaints have been made about other airports in various european countries. we shall deal with them in the coming months, when all the extremes that correspond in each case have been clarified. i think we are helping to clarify the situation, because there are a number of other regional airports which, thanks to the response to charleroi, will be able to offer airlines similar conditions, which will enable them to expand and develop their activities.
vice-president of the commission. (es) i would remind the honourable member that in the railway sector, as far as passenger transport is concerned, we have not yet achieved liberalisation. the railways in each country therefore operate as they see fit and have the support that each country is prepared to give them, based on criteria such as public service and the maintenance of the companies. so at the moment, low-cost companies may be competing with railway activity, but railways are benefiting from state support in virtually all countries. later, after a discussion on the third railway package, which i hope you will have for discussion shortly, and which i hope the next parliament and the next commission will be able to complete, we envisage the introduction of competition in rail passenger transport on international sections, not on national sections. at that point, we will have to see what effects this has on competition, but - i repeat - the aid we have authorized is limited in time and in amount. in no case may they exceed a maximum of 50% of the operating costs and, in addition, they must be decreasing for a maximum of five years. i think it is a balanced decision, which allows us to combine support for a regional airport, which - i repeat - is a source of dynamism and economic activity for a region. in the case of wallonia - an objective 1 region which is lagging behind the community average - this is what justifies the support for aid, not whether or not there are cheap tickets. an airline giving cheap tickets to people does not justify receiving public subsidies. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the agreement with ryanair, and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the agreement with ryanair. we have also agreed on the possibility of granting aid in the air transport sector when the public service condition is met. for example, in the case of the outermost islands and in the case of archipelagos, for reasons of internal public service. and in that case too, they must be subject to conditions of transparency, competition and equal treatment.
question no 36 by mr claude moraes (h-0046/04) subject: free movement of workers from the applicant countries will the commission state whether and, if so, how it intends to provide information and/or advice to the candidate countries on the free movement of persons from the candidate countries after 1 may?
the commission. the first two years, according to the council decision on the management of transitional periods, are a purely national matter. the european union cannot intervene, whether through national regulations and legislation or through bilateral agreements between the new countries and the existing member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission. there have certainly been studies on the movement of companies from the member states to the new countries, but i would say that the big wave of business movements has been completed and today, with the obligation of the new countries to fully implement european law in terms of the internal market and the labour market, companies do not have the same incentives as they did in the past. there is, of course, always the problem of low labour costs, but this is something we have known, and that is why the employment strategy focuses on the issues of investing in human resources and fundamentally changing the orientation of jobs in europe.
question no 37 by bill newton dunn (h-0026/04):on: drug smuggling how successful does the commission think the eu's five-year plan which expires this year has been, given how our streets are flooded with heroin and other drugs?
commission. the eu drugs strategy 2000-2004 provides a framework for a balanced and integrated approach on all drug-related activities in the european union. it has also been endorsed by the new member states and the candidate countries who have, in the meantime, set up national drug strategies and improved their capacities for taking action against drugs with the support of the phare programme. the union also has a number of drug action plans involving certain regions either producing or serving as transit countries for drugs, such as latin america, central asia and the balkans. research shows that a link between a particular drug policy line and the drug situation is difficult to establish. the availability and careful evaluation of relevant and reliable information are undoubtedly key elements in developing an evidence-based drug policy. the work of the european monitoring centre on drugs and drug addiction and the work of europol in this area form part of the basis for the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on the mid-term evaluation of the eu action plan on drugs. this mid-term evaluation was a first step in a larger process. by the end of this year we will have the final evaluation. without wanting to pre-empt the results of the final evaluation, the following developments on the eu drugs market can already be observed. heroin seizures have increased since 2001. our assessment is that street prices are generally stable or even decreasing. the number of heroin addicts seems to be relatively stable in the european union, although there are marked differences between the member states. cannabis remains the most widely-used illicit drug and its use is still increasing in many member states. the use of synthetic drugs such as ecstasy and the use of cocaine seem to be increasing in certain population groups, although the use of these drugs among the general population remains low.
commission. thank you for recognising that to a certain extent i am like the pope: i have no legions at all! indeed you are right, mr newton dunn, the main responsibility in this area lies with the member states. but there is a lot we can do, both in internal policy and external policy. when it comes to internal policy, one has to recognise that for years now europol has been playing a very important coordinating role in detecting the main transit routes. when we have detected the transit routes, we try to cooperate with such countries in order to prevent the entry into the european union of those drugs. we have made some progress in the balkan region thanks to cooperation with the countries in the area. thanks to the support of the cards programme, we have been developing specific law enforcement capabilities in those countries to fight against drug trafficking. i am less positive in my assessment as regards afghanistan. the figures i have at my disposal demonstrate that the poppies are growing and increasing, and it is quite clear that in afghanistan the political situation is not stable enough to guarantee close cooperation as far as law enforcement is concerned in order to tackle the issue of drugs trafficking. i believe this issue – and i know my colleague commissioner patten shares this view – will be at the top of the agenda in our negotiations with the afghan authorities in the near future.
commission. thank you for raising that question. my answer is very clear: no, it is not good at all. firstly, it is not good for people to become addicted to drugs. the european monitoring centre in lisbon is developing five key indicators that will allow us to have more reliable data, so that we can compare that data among the member states and establish a clearer link between the policy line of member states and the impact of that policy line on the pattern of consumption. these five indicators refer to figures for drugs used among the general population, the problem of drug use connected with infectious diseases, drugs-related deaths and the treatment provided by member states for those who ask to be treated for drug addiction. i hope that the work in progress with these five indicators will give us a clearer picture of the situation in europe. i would just add that my concern today is, above all, the proliferation in the use of synthetic drugs and the upsurge of a new profile of drug addict: the poly-consumption consumer. poly-consumption is a new pattern; it comes from a combination of illicit drugs and licit drugs. we need more research and more reliable information in order to be able to fight against this new profile that has arisen in the last few years.
- we now move on to the second part of question time, where commissioner barnier will answer. question no 2 by mr barnier
question no 38 by mr alexandros alavanos, to be answered by mr papayannakis (h-0862/03): the operation of biological treatment plants structural funds have supported the construction of biological treatment plants in many greek cities. according to some information which has come to public knowledge, 260 of the 290 plants are in decreased operation or have been abandoned. can the commission state how many of these biological treatment plants which have received structural fund support are fully operational and how many are experiencing operational problems and the reasons for this? what does the commission intend to do to ensure that the biological treatment plants which have received substantial amounts of aid from the community budget can be kept in operation and continue to operate?
commission. - the commission's role is to ensure that the member states - greece in this case - comply with their obligations. i would also like to point out, in addition to my first answer, that we have been informed of the fairly recent creation by greece of an environmental inspectorate. this body should be responsible for monitoring all infrastructures such as those you mentioned with mr alavanos. in any event, the commission is not mandated to carry out checks itself in place of the member state concerned; i think it is a matter of subsidiarity. however, as i myself mentioned in my first reply, we are, under the council directive on urban waste water treatment, able, if i may say so, to ask for information on the operation of all sewage treatment plants. i am encouraged by mr alavanos' question and i can assure you that i shall do so in the coming weeks.
- question no 39 by juan manuel ferrández lezaun (h-0016/04):on: water diversion project on the ebro riverat the end of december 2003, the spanish government submitted an application for aid for the project on the diversion of water from the ebro river to the east coast of spain. is the commission aware that on 14 january this year the spanish minister for the environment, elvira rodríguez, announced that the works on this project would be notified in february 2004? what is the commission's position on this and what does it intend to do in this respect, given that it has not yet decided whether the project is sustainable or not?
commission. - mr president, mr ferrández lezaun asks me a question which reminds me of the debate we recently had with mrs wallström in the committee on the environment on this major issue of the environment. as regards the work on the project to divert the waters of the ebro, the spanish authorities have requested community funding from the cohesion fund and the structural funds. the dates of eligibility of expenditure for the different sub-projects are 29 december 2003 and 1 january 2002 respectively. the spanish authorities therefore do not need to wait for a commission decision to launch these projects, on the understanding that the start of work in no way prejudges the commission's decision on their possible community funding. in other words, it is one thing to launch the project and another to get confirmation of eu funding. so if, as i said the other day before the committee on the environment, the commission were to take a negative decision on any part of the overall project after examining the project as part of a global reflection on the jewish people, the member state would have to bear the costs alone. that is my answer to the question put to me.
(es) mr commissioner, i am sorry to come back to this subject, which is repetitive, but in spain we are having a ceremony of confusion. the spanish government, without going any further, with the famous and recently approved júcar-vinalopó project, also created an identity problem of what the water of the ebro was and where it could not go, within the júcar-vinalopó project, and i had to ask the commissioner a question - which i thank her in my heart for having already answered me. but in this case, we're back to the same problem. you know the serious social and possibly environmental problems in spain. what will happen if, after we have finished the works, you, without considering the economic or financial aspects, simply do not comply with european legislation? what are we gonna do then? restore the whole building to its original state again, with all the costs that entails? we therefore ask you: do you not think it is more logical for the commission to ask the spanish government to suspend any action in the spanish national hydrological plan as a precaution until the commission has taken a decision?
commission. - i understand your impatience, mr president, and your desire for clarification. we had a fairly frank, fairly constructive debate on this subject the other day before the committee on the environment, and i gave a fairly firm answer, in agreement with mrs wallström. i consider that, even if, administratively, several sources of funding are involved, in particular several programmes - regional programmes of andalusia, valencia, murcia, the cohesion fund, so many quite different instruments which all contribute, in one way or another, to the possible financing of the diversion of the waters of the ebro - this project forms a whole and is sufficiently strategic to be examined overall by the commission. i think that is a clear answer and in line with what you want. again, we will review and consider any requests as part of an overall analysis of this project. i said earlier that, for some part of the project, there was nothing to prevent the spanish authorities from starting work if they wished. the implementation of these parts of the project must comply with environmental regulations. we'll check it out. that's an important point. the commission's assessment of the draft law must also be positive in order to authorise community financing. by starting work very early, the spanish authorities are taking responsibility for possible actions before the court of justice, for example for non-compliance with current environmental regulations. there is also the risk that the commission's overall assessment of the project will come after the start of work, and the expected funding will not follow. i can't say anything else, legally. it seems to me that the answer i gave you to the question of the overall assessment we wish to make of this project, which is global even though it is made up of several parts, is, i think, in the direction you want.
(es) i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for the clarity with which he has answered, as he did at the environment committee meeting to a similar question from mr ferrández. i hope that after this second time, mr ferrández will be clear about how things are going here, what the commission and the spanish government are really doing, that is, that it will be very clear that the spanish government is not carrying out any illegal action by starting work at some points of what will be the crossing of the ebro. i am particularly grateful to the commissioner for his clarity, because sometimes ideas are conveyed which lead to confusion among the spanish citizens, and i hope that mr ferrández has finally been cleared of all the doubts he has been raising.
- i would remind members that they may only speak to ask questions. you still have 15 seconds left, mrs. avilés. if you wish, you may ask a question.
(es) we would like to hear from mr barnier what the timetable is for the commission to finally give us some answer to this demand which is of real concern to the spanish people and particularly in aragon.
commission. - i would not like to commit myself by answering you and risk being denied afterwards. we must know that this project is complex and that we must examine it properly in the light of community environmental legislation, in the light of the rules and, finally, in the light of this rather original analysis which we want to carry out in general, which i believe the spanish authorities have finally understood, whereas initially it was more a matter of getting approval for each project. we want to make an overall assessment of all the elements at our disposal, including the effectiveness of this project and the cost to consumers. ideally, we would like to be ready to pass this judgment during the next summer, at the end of the current semester. we have conducted preliminary studies, internal consultations, economic analyses. the commission's assessment will concern the technical projects themselves in general but will also cover the economic analysis which will be made of them. this is a major ecological project and we will therefore proceed seriously, which should allow us to give our overall assessment of this project for the waters of the ebro in the coming summer.
(es) the grid proposed by this parliament was made very clear to me at the meeting on 16 june with commissioner wallström and with you. before i turn to the specific subject of mr ferrández's question and his answer, i should like to say that i come from the valencian country, from the banks of the júcar river, which is dying today because a rigorous environmental impact study has not been carried out. we all know that a work of this magnitude is irreversible once it has been built. the socioeconomic effect and the destruction and deterioration of the environment would therefore be less damaging if this parliament today sent a note to the spanish government saying that it should suspend the project on a precautionary basis until it is examined by this parliament.
the commission. - we should be able to devote a great deal of time to this subject which is of great interest to the european parliament and to members of all persuasions. madam president, in the two cases i have just mentioned and which were the subject of the question i was asked, the commission does not have the capacity to suspend proceedings. i have to tell you. we went quite far in stating that, given the scale of this project, all its ecological, socioeconomic and technical dimensions, we had decided to make an overall assessment. in the meantime, some work can begin. they won't be finished in june or july. in any case, during the summer the commission will say: this project seems realistic, feasible, or it presents risks or problems. on this basis, decisions will be taken, including on the commitment of the expected eu funding. i cannot go beyond my answer today, but i thank you for your comments and appreciation.
- question no 40 by joan vallvé (h-0022/04) subject: crossborder regional cooperation one of the fundamental elements in the creation of a european area is crossborder cooperation. on several occasions it has proved difficult to establish satisfactory cooperation because of the differences in the legislation of neighbouring countries and the absence of a community instrument under public law which would allow this kind of cooperation. does the european commission intend to present a proposal for a legal framework in the near future which will make it possible to establish cross-border cooperation between national, regional and local administrations at eu level?
commission. - mr president, i thank you for allowing me to answer mr vallvé because this is also an important question. like mr vallvé, the commission believes that crossborder cooperation is a key element of european integration. moreover, in another context, that of the convention on the future of europe - in which i participated - i proposed on several occasions that the draft constitution should provide a constitutional basis for this cooperation. in any event, harmonious and balanced integration of the union as a whole requires that cooperation, particularly crossborder cooperation, be supported. this is what we are doing with the interreg iii community initiative, which contains a strand a specifically dedicated to this strengthening of crossborder cooperation. however, i am fully aware of the difficulties faced by member states, regions and local authorities in implementing crossborder cooperation projects under interreg. these difficulties are mainly due to the need for partners on both sides of a border to respect national law and the rules and administrative procedures of their own state. i say this, mr president, with a certain amount of experience, having been for seventeen years the president of a french border region and having led many projects which have experienced the difficulties i have just mentioned on the other side, in the val d'aosta in italy. we must therefore find a lasting and common solution to this problem. the commission has launched a study to identify the difficulties faced by the managing authorities of these programmes, with ways of solving them. the results of this study will be available in the spring of this year, in time for the commission to propose appropriate legislative measures in the framework of the future regulations applicable to the next programming period of the structural funds. i think that this legislative proposal will be tabled in june. as you know, the commission is due to adopt next week, on 18 february, the third report on economic and social cohesion, which i shall be presenting to your house. this report will contain proposals for a reformed and strengthened cohesion policy after 2006. the creation of a legal instrument for crossborder cooperation, which mr vallvé calls for, should be one of the proposals that the commission will support in its third report on cohesion.
- mr president, commissioner, i will answer in your language. i would like to thank you for your speech and say that i hope we will have the opportunity to hear you when the report on cohesion is presented, which will for the first time also be a report on territorial cohesion and not just economic and social cohesion. i also believe that territorial cohesion would not be possible without a real instrument to strengthen crossborder cooperation. it is obvious that cities and regions, and in the case of france, the departments, have difficulties in drawing up crossborder cooperation programmes, given the different laws that exist between the states. i think it is therefore at european level that we should devise an instrument which makes this cooperation possible and, let us say, simple. we are waiting for a legislative proposal to this effect, a proposal which will help to strengthen the links between the various european states and to remove what remains of those frontiers which robert schuman had described as scars in the history of europe.
commission - mr vallvé, this is not a question you asked me, it's an encouragement you gave me. you will not have to wait long, because, as i said, i will be presenting the report on cohesion next wednesday, together with mrs diamantopoulou and mr fischler. i hope that we will be able to do so here, or in brussels, during an enlarged conference of presidents, but i am not yet sure. in any case, mr vallvé, we are going in the direction you want in this report. i will say precisely what i have said in the report on cohesion, having worked a lot with my services and the legal services of the commission, and also having your support, i hope that in the legislative programme laying down the regulations for future cohesion policy i can give you satisfaction very clearly through the proposal of what could be a kind of cross-border territorial community. these are the tracks we're working on.
mr barnier was right when he said there was no question. i thought it might be construed as a question, but help is always welcome. that is why this dialogue is always positive. mr ortuondo larrea has a supplementary question.
(es) mr commissioner, as you know, there is a priority project, of those approved at the essen council, on transeuropean networks, concerning the high-speed rail link to southern europe, and one section of this project is the one which is planned to link the french town of dax with vitoria: dax in the region of aquitaine and vitoria in the autonomous community of the basque country. both the aquitaine region and the autonomous community of the basque country want to promote this project and are facing difficulties in understanding or implementing it from the respective central governments of the french and spanish states. these two regions want to take it forward and i am trying to get this crossborder cooperation accepted within the european union. i therefore ask you the following specific question: will this instrument, which you have announced that we may have after the summer, relate only to the funds of the european regional policy or can it also be extended to the european funds for the transeuropean transport networks and to any other type of action with community resources?
commission - firstly, mr president, the regional and structural funds have been used to finance transport networks. the cohesion fund and perhaps even objective 1 funds have been, are and will be used on certain strategic routes to finance transport networks of various kinds, particularly cross-border ones. my answer is rather positive and is in line with what you want. i think that this new instrument we are working on could be used to mobilise and use european funds, and even if european funds were not available, i will admit that my dream would be to propose the status of a crossborder territorial community, which would be created and could use local, national or regional funds. it goes without saying that such a status, which is possible without european funds, would be possible all the more so with european funds. i still need a little more time, but i will announce this next week, probably in the report on cohesion. i shall then work on the legislative instrument for some time, but i accept your suggestion.
thank you, mr. barnier, for your cooperation. the answer to questions 41 to 44 will be given in writing, as provided for in the rules of procedure. we'll start with 20 minutes for mr. liikanen. question no 6 by mr liikanen
- question no 45 by bart staes (h-0842/03):on: wsis - civil society the world summit on the information society was hailed as a very big step forward in terms of citizen participation. one of the eu prepcom documents (wsis prepcom1 document 19/06/2002) sees the summit itself as a model for the future role of civil society. however, the disappointment of civil society participants after the geneva summit can hardly be understated. in the 'declaration of civil society to the wsis' entitled 'shaping the information society to meet human needs', civil society representatives unanimously adopted the following statement: 'at this stage in the process, the first phase of the summit, geneva, december 2003, the documents of the summit do not adequately reflect our views and the common interests that we have collectively expressed.' does the commission see civil society participation in the wsis as a failure and does it recognise the need to stimulate and increase civil society participation in the next phases of the wsis and if so, what initiatives does the commission intend to take to stimulate increased civil society participation in the next phase of the wsis?
- i would remind members that speaking time should be used only for asking questions, not for making statements. mr harbour has an additional question.
commission. firstly, i thank mr harbour for his active participation in the world summit and also the participation of the other members of the european parliament. it was very helpful and supportive. i am ready to look for all possible ways to improve our cooperation in an informal context and also in the preparation for the tunis summit in 2005. i should like to say to mr staes that whenever i receive an invitation to the european parliament i always come, if possible.
- question no 46 by reino paasilinna (h-0006/04):on: accessibility of public sector websites for disabled peoplein finland, for example, only a fraction of public sector websites are currently accessible from the point of view of disabled people and the elderly. i assume that the situation may not be much better in the other member states. the situation of the digital divide, which the union is at least trying to combat in its documents, is extremely worrying. can the commission draw up a programme at union level which would oblige public service providers to make use of the technology already available, which could, for example, give the visually impaired the same service opportunities as the rest of the population?
the commission. (fi) mr president, the commission shares the concern of mr paasilinna that there is currently too limited a number of public websites in europe that are easily accessible. following the adoption of the eeurope action plan in 2000, the commission recommended in its communication that all public websites should follow the web content accessibility guidelines developed by the world wide web consortium's web accessibility initiative. parliament welcomed this, as is clear from the report by mr bastiaan belder and the resolution accompanying it. the council and parliament resolutions called on the commission to monitor progress in order to provide comparable information. the commission has followed these recommendations and will publish a report in the coming weeks, outlining the results achieved. member states and eu institutions are adapting their systems to the guidelines. this is usually agreed on a voluntary basis within the eeurope cooperation framework. however, it should be borne in mind that the implementation of unhindered access to public websites is a long process; there are many sites. it is also to be hoped that the disabled people's organisations will play an active role in this. when i presented our guidelines in due course, i received 26 emails on the same day saying that commissioner liikas' website did not meet the approved conditions. this kind of pressure makes it easier to make a change. at the same time, the commission will naturally examine whether there is a need to extend the scope of community legislation on anti-discrimination policy in the future. the commission will therefore launch this spring a public consultation on a future strategy for combating discrimination for the green paper. the green paper sets out the community's progress in implementing an anti-discrimination policy and addresses issues relating to the development of future policy. it also addresses the new challenges that enlargement will bring and outlines the union's gender equality action for the next five years.
the commission. (fi) mr president, i will do my best to ensure that this issue is also raised more widely in this context. thank you, sir.
- question no 47 by charlotte cederschiöld (h-0025/04): the european agency for network and information security (esa) is a european agency which is responsible for the protection of the european union's financial interests. the european agency for network and information security (it agency) is reported to be located in crete, approximately two hours from the nearest airport in a city without built-in broadband. the commission has previously expressed the view that a location closer to, inter alia, modern communication lines, infrastructure, research and an it industry would be most appropriate for the agency and the work it has to do. in view of this, does the commission consider that it is optimal for the council to be able to decide behind closed doors on the location of agencies and authorities? should not such decisions be made more openly, so that the arguments of fact have greater influence? does the commission consider that the location of the it agency could be detrimental to its work? will the agency be able to carry out its work in accordance with the regulation? furthermore, does the commission consider that it would be more cost-effective and more efficient to have the eu agencies and authorities administratively subordinate to the commission? the requirement for member states to have one representative per country risks creating ineffective decision-making situations. shouldn't relevant competence prevail over national interests in such contexts, so that for example industry and consumer organisations would be better represented? does the commission prefer the present situation where countries without railways are represented in the railway authority and countries without seas in the maritime authority?
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree that we should use tax money in an efficient way. that's the first answer. the second answer is that member states tend to want to have influence over day-to-day operations if they create a strong institution. they all want to be able to send a representative to the board. i've made my point here before. either a quick solution is chosen during the terms of office of this parliament and this commission, or we wait for a more uncertain future. i chose the faster solution because all the crises in network security today have shown that we need to take urgent action.
- we will take the last question to commissioner liikanen. question no 48 by ewa hedkvist petersen (h-0043/04) subject: e-safety programme every year, more than 50 000 people are killed in traffic accidents in the eu countries, while 1.7 million people are injured. this is unacceptable. it is possible to improve road safety, inter alia, by ensuring that motor vehicles are designed and operate more safely. information technology can be used for this purpose. can the commission state how the e-security programme is developing? what progress is being made under this programme to improve road safety in europe?
commission. in reply to the honourable member, let me say that, regarding the first issue of ecall technologies, we have now seen the first real applications in the marketplace, and they work. at the madrid conference we looked at applications developed by the health authorities and car industry, which showed that, when an accident took place, direct contact could be established with the hospital and the ambulance services were able to locate the place of the accident and make direct telephone contact. in technological terms the product is now ready. the challenge now is to implement it appropriately. but the first issue has been solved. on the second matter, as far as accident-avoidance measures by it tools are concerned, progress has been made on the research side based essentially on the use of radars or sensors, which help the driver to identify potential risks in traffic, especially during the early evening, often the most dangerous time. we will look at the issue in detail in the context of the feasibility studies to be carried out. as we all know, accident prevention is by far the best solution. in any case, pedestrian safety is a priority for all of us and we will stick to the commitments we have made.
thank you very much, mr. liikanen, for your answer. question no 49 and 50 will be answered in writing, as the rules of procedure provide. we shall now proceed to the last part of the day - 20 minutes of questions to commissioner verheugen. question no 6 by mr verheugen
question no 51 by michael gahler (h-0863/03) subject: the independence of the hungarian financial control (pszáf) on 15 december the hungarian parliament adopted a government bill concerning the independent operation of the hungarian financial control authority (pszáf) in the exercise of its statutory functions. at the same time, it is intervening in an ongoing procedure which could bring to light politically undesirable circumstances. the commission has already made clear in a letter to mr bolkenstein the criteria for independent financial control. the european central bank has also expressed criticism of the proposed legislative changes, as have members of the european parliament. does the commission consider that, even as regards the correct use of community funds, there is still a guarantee of financial control independent of instructions? if so, why? if not, what will the commission do to safeguard the financial interests of the union?
the commission. i do not think it is the commission's job to assess why a future member state is amending legislation. it is our task to ensure that the legal systems in the member states are in conformity with community law. we did.
- question no 52 by bernd posselt (h-0004/04):on: law on restitution in romaniahow does the commission assess the law on restitution in romania, especially as regards the german minority, and can this model also be transferred to other candidate countries?
the commission. i'm sorry about that. i've prepared for questions about romania. i am not prepared to deal with an extremely difficult technical question on the czech republic. i will ask my services to make a special effort to establish appropriate contacts with the czech authorities and i will inform you in writing.
question no 53 by monica frassoni, adopted by elisabeth schroedter (h-0033/04) subject: exclusion of voters from the maltese electoral roll on 21 march 2003, the constitutional court of malta, at the request of an aggrieved party, defined the concept of 'residence' (cassolas case, judge tonio mallia, harry vassallo v. the electoral commission and john mary magro, no. 6/2003/1). the definition of the constitutional court of malta is as follows: 'the word 'domicile' does not mean physical presence in the country'. furthermore, the new law on the european elections in malta (act no. xvi of 2003, printed in the malta government gazette of 26 november 2003) expressly states that all maltese nationals residing in the 25 eu countries have the right to vote and stand for election in malta. is the commission aware that despite the constitutional definition and the existing legislation on european elections, the malta labour party (mlp) has again applied to have 1684 maltese nationals removed from the electoral rolls? these cases will come before the court in malta in the last week of january and maltese staff in the eu institutions are among those being targeted. what does the commission intend to do about the illegal attempt by the mlp to prevent maltese nationals from taking part in the forthcoming european elections in malta?
the commission, madam president, has already made a number of proposals. the constitution of malta recognises all fundamental and civil rights. the right of maltese citizens to vote in general elections is dependent on nationality, age and residence. in response to a recent complaint by a maltese citizen whose right to vote was challenged by a party, the maltese constitutional court has ruled that such requirements do not infringe the fundamental rights of maltese citizens. the european commission has no comments to make on the opinion of the maltese constitutional court. i would point out, however, that according to the maltese constitutional court, the concept of residence does not include physical presence in the country, but that temporary absence from the country is also included and permitted. if a citizen's right to vote is called into question by a political party in malta, the case must be dealt with by a competent maltese court and the interpretation of the maltese constitutional court must be taken into account. the right to challenge the electoral roll and the election results is an integral part of any transparent democratic system. it is certainly not the commission's role to interfere in the functioning of the maltese judiciary. the commission also notes that the recently adopted law on the european elections in malta provides that all maltese citizens living in the 25 member states have the right to vote and to stand as candidates in the elections to the european parliament in malta. this was possible because the maltese constitution covers general elections but not european elections. this is an interesting development which the european commission is taking note of with interest. it is clear that malta's increased involvement in international organisations is contributing to very desirable internal developments.
the commission i do so, madam president, but very reluctantly, because the european commission really has no business what any party in malta does or does not do. it's not true what you're saying that anyone here was removed from the voter roll. here one party has exercised its right to request cancellations. this is possible under maltese law - i have just explained this - and it is decided in a proper legal procedure. whether or not this system we have in malta is particularly beautiful is, i believe, not for us to decide. the only important thing is to determine whether or not the general right to free and equal elections is guaranteed in malta. that's the case. but it is certainly not the commission's job to pass judgment when any party does anything. i won't do that either.
question no 54 by richard howitt (h-0038/04): on the baku-ceyhan oil pipelinewill the commission state why no action has been taken on the agreements concluded by turkey on the baku-ceyhan oil pipeline and the turkish accession agreement - in connection with the recent renegotiation and despite the assurances given? can the commission confirm that a number of ngos have brought actions for inaction against the commission before the court of justice and does the commission have any preliminary comments in response to this?
the commission. - to be honest, mr president, i do not know whether the european commission as an institution has an opinion on this. but i can tell you that to any attentive newspaper reader, there's no hiding what's going on here. i am therefore very happy to confirm to you, as a personal opinion, that this is a project of considerable strategic importance, that it plays a major role in the whole of the eastern mediterranean policy, that it has many implications for other countries and that it is therefore a project which deserves the greatest possible international attention.
- thank you very much, mr verheugen, for your participation in the parliament this evening. as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 55 to 85 will be answered in writing. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission. mr president, mr bushill-matthews and mr pronk, on behalf of the epp group, have put a number of questions to which i shall reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first question you asked is what the commission intends to do to achieve the lisbon summit objectives in terms of demographic change. the demographic problem is at present at the heart of our three main policies, economic policy - particularly public finance - employment policy and social cohesion policy. the question of ageing is now, as you will have seen, a key element of the broad economic policy guidelines and the guidelines of the employment strategy, with specific objectives. i would like to say in particular that this year, in the spring 2004 report, we have set three priorities, one of which is the promotion of active ageing, that is to say, the extension of working life. we have three categories of actions. the first concerns the abolition of economic disincentives which effectively discourage workers from delaying retirement. in many countries, the current system is that it is better for a person to retire than to continue working because of lower wages. so there's this serious issue of counter-motivation. the second is to promote access to training for all workers, but especially for older workers, and here we have set specific quantitative targets. the third is to improve the quality of work. in this context, the commission, in its efforts to put demographic ageing at the centre of its policies, proposes to extend the open method of coordination to the modernisation of the care system and the social protection sector. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of health care, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the second question you asked concerns the flexibility of pension rules and is particularly timely. as you said, we have set ourselves specific objectives. we have set ourselves the lisbon targets of increasing the employment rate of the elderly to 50%, and the barcelona targets of increasing the average age at which workers leave the labour market by five years, and to do so by 2010. these objectives are monitored by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are currently examining with the social protection and employment committees how social systems are preventing or encouraging easy retirement. the final report is available to you, it will be presented again in 2004, and we can see in each system what are the problems with incentives for pensions, for disability benefits, for unemployment benefits, for older workers, for survivors' benefits and how the logic of incentives and not the logic of integrating these people into the labour market has distorted both the labour market and the individual's own attempt to enter the labour market. we believe that this report, which will be submitted to the european council, is an important tool in the hands of the member states as well. i should of course tell you that the european commission has been recommending the establishment of flexible pension schemes continuously since 1980 and the response has not been what we expected. as regards your third question on the wim kok report, we consider it extremely important, particularly because it is included in detailed recommendations for each member state. we have already included the kok report in the employment strategy and our recommendations to all countries will take account of this report. i think it is interesting that in cooperation with mr kok, the ministries of labour and the social partners, we are presenting the conclusions of the committee to the member states, trying to give them a lot of publicity and to mobilise not only governments but also the social partners to implement them.
(es) mr president, commissioner, i am grateful for this question, because our group is very concerned, constantly, not only about the problem of ageing, but also about the link between ageing and depopulation. europe is becoming less and less populated and we are getting older. we can't compete if we don't have people fit to work. i think it is time to consider introducing a new criterion if we want to have future possibilities, a new criterion based on the density of the productive population. commissioner, you are greek. i have been looking at the population density map that you have in europe, i have it right here in front of me, and it shows that more than half of your country, more than half of greece, is under 50 people per square kilometre. they're low population density areas. but what if i told you that, in addition, half its population is over 50 years of age? we are faced with a situation with virtually no future. we must begin to study this problem, which is occurring in many regions of europe, in spain, portugal, scotland, france, parts of italy and also in greece. it is time we started to think about the concept of the productive population density necessary for competitiveness, because we are also facing a recurring problem which in spain we call "the fish that bites its tail". we cannot take companies to areas where there are no people, where there is no productive workforce, and neither does productive workforce come because there are no companies. somehow we have to break this vicious circle. i will tell you more: in our region, in aragon, we have tried to bring immigrants to rural areas: latin americans, romanians, eastern europeans. do you know what's going on? they stay three, five, six months or a year and then they go, to the big city or to the coast. somehow we have to break this vicious circle.
(es) mr president, first of all, let me congratulate mr ribeiro, because at this crucial moment - as commissioner vitorino said - i think his motion for a resolution is ambitious and comprehensive. i shall concentrate on two points in it and i shall add to what mrs paciotti has said earlier on the subject of human rights. the first is cooperation in the criminal field, and i am addressing it to the council. i think, mr president, that it is important that such an emblematic decision, which affects not only the fight against terrorism but also the fight against crime, and which radically recognises the principle of mutual recognition - such as the search and seizure order - should be in force today in all the member states and we should already be dealing with accompanying measures, such as, for example, the exchange of evidence, in a much more flexible way than we do. there is no way of convincing our citizens that this cannot be done to improve security as europeans want it, that is, with more cooperation, not more repression. at the same time, i think it is important that, at this time when we are discussing enlargement, we should be able to adopt the framework decision on procedural rights. it seems to me that this is the other side of the coin of judicial and police cooperation and mutual recognition in the field of criminal cooperation, and that we cannot entertain ourselves in this sense. the commissioner spoke of the four pillars of tampere in relation to immigration and asylum policy. i am convinced that they are valid and i am convinced that the commission's proposals are moving them in the right direction, but five years later, almost at the limit of the tampere mandate, i think we are in a situation of some confusion. in the council's vocabulary, 'managing flows', i.e. entering, residing legally in order to work in the european union, has become synonymous with the fight against illegal immigration. the concept of "legal flow management" has disappeared. at the moment the council is not even in a position to take up the discussion on entry and residence for employment reasons, which is the gordian knot of the matter. if we continue to raise the tone in the councils, if we continue to put only the words 'fight against' next to 'immigration' and 'illegal' and, instead, we are not able to establish coherent lines of work to manage the whole of immigration in the 21st century - which is the century of communication and globalisation - and give certain answers, all we are going to increase among our citizens is frustration. legal entry, channels of entry, integration policy for those who have already been here - sometimes for many years and we still call them immigrants - and relations with third countries which are not based on readmission alone but on a comprehensive set of measures which make immigration a positive thing for the countries of origin and for the countries of destination.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, at the end of the five-year term, as provided for in the treaty of amsterdam and the important tampere summit for the adoption of measures leading to the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, and on the basis of what has been achieved so far, i would like, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, to make an assessment and reflect on the future of this permanent challenge. i would say, as a general assessment, that we should not give a negative impression of what has been achieved so far, even though, for example, much of the progress is due solely to crises such as 9/11, and even though, in the particular field of asylum and immigration, we have not yet been able to find satisfactory solutions. all measures to develop the area of freedom, security and justice have a direct impact on the sovereignty of the member states, so the reluctance and difficulties are to some extent logical. in view of the progress made and, above all, in order to continue to make progress, why not consider a second tampere programme now? it seems that this may be the case - from what i have heard the commissioner say - and that is the feeling of this house too. i would also suggest that this new programme should be based on three key ideas: legitimacy, efficiency and solidarity. firstly, the legitimacy of the actions undertaken, the sole basis of which, in my view, should be the protection and guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens, for which the intervention of the european parliament is of vital importance. i wonder whether this has been the driving force behind all the measures taken or whether, on the contrary, it has been an exercise in defending the national interests of the member states, often bypassing parliament or sending it all the texts on which it has to decide too late. unfortunately, mr president, the reality is that the second hypothesis is correct. this is shown by the weak role played by the european parliament in key matters such as the judicial cooperation agreement with the united states or the programme to combat terrorism and organised crime, where the lack of consultation of parliament demonstrates a lack of transparency in decision-making and the relegation to the background of the genuine representative of the european citizens. it is fair to say, however, that there is one area in which parliament, the commission and the council have shown great determination and consensus: the fight against terrorism. let me also make a proposal on this point, mr president: the establishment of an international day dedicated to the victims of terrorism - which could well be 11 september - as the only way of bringing justice to those who are the real victims of this criminal scourge, which unfortunately is increasingly on the agenda, which attacks the most basic right of the human being, which is life and his physical integrity. i hope, mr president, that you will heed this appeal. secondly, an important element of reflection would be the effectiveness of the measures taken. the decisionmaking method used so far has undoubtedly led to a somewhat schizophrenic situation. this is demonstrated, for example, by the initiatives of the member states which are not adopted and which overlap with one another, by the blockages in the council as a result of the unanimity rule - as in the case of the normative development of the asylum procedure - or, above all, by the flagrant delays in the incorporation into the legislation of the member states of community rules, as in the case of the 'euro order'. that is why all the amendments to the draft european constitution are so important to avoid this situation. the last point is solidarity, which is perhaps the most serious lack of solidarity that is currently taking place in most member states. it is a fact that governments are more concerned about their domestic public opinion or their national budget than they are about achieving european objectives. or is that not what is happening in the councils of ministers in dealing with the serious problems caused by the accumulation of asylum applications or by the disorderly and irregular economic immigration which some member states are suffering, with tragic consequences? mr president, the worst thing about this strategy is that it ignores objective reality. in an area of freedom, security and justice without internal frontiers, it is useless to insist on defending strict national positions against other member states if the effects of the policy adopted by some have a direct impact on others. europe is a common project. the space we're discussing is a joint project. let us move forward together and the results will undoubtedly benefit us all.
(es) mr president, as has been said here this morning, this is the last debate of this parliament on the area of freedom, security and justice and it also coincides with the approach of 1 may, when certain aspects of the treaty are amended as a result of the treaty of nice and 10 new countries are added to the european union. article 6 of the treaty on european union states that the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, which are common to all the member states. i believe that we must not simply ensure that the states themselves observe these principles, but that we, as the european union, must become guarantors of respect for this freedom and of the rule of law. we also have the support of the european citizens, who are increasingly asking us for more europe, asking us to make europe not just a large market but also a safer, freer and fairer place. i come from a country where terrorism is one of the great scourges and where some of the principles laid down in article 6 are not respected. the terrorist group eta prevents some of us from speaking freely, acting freely and making politics freely. eta and its environment limit our freedom and seriously undermine the rule of law. and from the rule of law, together with the judiciary and the police, we can fight the scourge of terrorism. today we can no longer say that terrorism is a local problem, but that it is a global problem, one which affects us all, and which also affects the european union. the implementation of the euro-order, the inclusion of terrorist organisations on european lists recognised by all, and the definition of the crime of terrorism are without doubt some of europe's great achievements in creating the area of freedom, security and justice and in the fight against terrorism. our victory in this struggle will depend on our firmness, on our respect for and application of the rule of law and on the application of all the mechanisms that the law allows us. it will not be through negotiation or ambiguity that we will defeat terrorism. terrorism is an attack on democracy and we will have to defeat it with more democracy. in relation to victims, much progress has also been made in the area of freedom, security and justice, and this parliament itself has in recent years awarded a prize to organisations which defend the victims of terrorism. i would like to refer specifically to the report by mr ribeiro e castro and first of all congratulate him on his report and also congratulate the commissioner on the efforts he has made over the years to create this area of freedom, security and justice. i believe - and i emphasize some of the points made in the report - that we must all fight for the framework decisions to be incorporated as soon as possible into the legal systems of the member states and we must not allow the different application of the law in the member states to become, as your report says, an unequal treatment of european citizens. as far as europol and european police cooperation are concerned, this is also an important aspect of the fight against terrorism and we must also make progress in cooperation here. finally, i would add that in the next constitutional treaty, which i am sure will not be long in coming, we must make progress in creating this area and - as the report says - eliminate the structure of the pillars, increase the number of decisions taken by qualified majority and, with the participation of this parliament, strengthen the commission's own right of initiative and strengthen the role of the national parliaments. the union must guarantee freedom to all its citizens and the fight against terrorism is the guarantee that this european union will be more just and more free.
(es) mr president, this is one of the debates that most interests european citizens today. the seville council made it clear that the union must make an effort to combat illegal immigration, based on a comprehensive and balanced approach, aimed at combating the causes of this new form of exploitation of human beings, especially women and children, who arrive every day at our borders from the east to the south and the southernmost tip of europe. since then, the commission and parliament have made an effort to organise and shape what should become a common policy on immigration and asylum. the committee on development has been calling for the need to achieve greater integration of our cooperation policies, within the union's external action, with the countries of origin of migration flows, in order to make progress in managing these flows more effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted. it is necessary to build mutual trust and collaboration with the countries of origin in order to solve the causes of migration movements, and to improve and increase the instruments to combat poverty, the real cause of immigration from developing countries. the union should aim to effectively integrate the joint management of migration flows into its relations with third countries. to this end, cooperation agreements must reflect the commitment of the parties to take on their responsibilities in the fight against the mafias, which on both sides of those borders derive the greatest benefits from the exploitation of human beings, the latest and most sophisticated form of slavery. these actions must also serve to mobilise wealth creation as a key element in the service of co-development. this new form of slavery, which is the illegal trafficking of immigrants, encourages labor exploitation, corruption and the infiltration of people who can endanger security. readmission agreements should be a new element in the union's relations with third countries. in conclusion, i would like to point out that during the last year the volume of the enormous economic flows represented by the remittances of money from immigrants to their countries of origin has become particularly notable. these remittances are subject to outrageous financial costs, in some cases reaching levels of usury. this is not your task, mr commissioner, but i must tell you that the commission should find the legal instruments to ensure the swift and safe transfer of these proceeds from immigrant labour to initiatives for co-development and the strengthening of civil society and the private sector in third countries, thus respecting the conclusions of the monterrey conference. we have certainly started to make some progress in the last year and i thank the commissioner, mr vitorino, for his valuable contributions, but unfortunately there is still a long way to go.
council. mr president, i want to thank very sincerely the members of this house for the honour they have conferred on me in hearing me today and also for the very comprehensive and wide range of opinions that have been expressed here. i do not agree with every opinion, but i have listened intently to the debate and am conscious of the fact that if i were to mention all the contributors, the short time available to me for reply would be completely exhausted – that is before i even address the very important issues that many of them raised and the very important themes which recurred in the contributions. firstly, in relation to the issue at the heart of a number of contributions – whether we are looking backwards or forwards – it is the irish presidency's humble task to accomplish the outstanding agenda items as far as it can. it will be for commissioner vitorino to come to the june council with his retrospective look at what has been achieved in the time period contemplated by the amsterdam treaty and to set the scene, if he will, for a tampere ii agenda, the starting process for which will be developed under the netherlands presidency. for ireland and its presidency, on the contrary, it is a matter of addressing the issues that are still outstanding on the agenda and concentrating its efforts in relation to them. mention has been made of the slow progress in relation to the two major amsterdam imperatives: the directives in relation to asylum. it will be a very considerable task to secure the agreement necessary to bring those two measures forward to completion. in relation to one of them – the asylum procedures directive – i have to say that even if i have political agreement on that issue before 1 may, my successor will have to come back to the newly elected european parliament to achieve the necessary codecision. therefore, i do not want to create any unrealistic expectations as to what can be achieved. however, in relation to all these measures, a lot of time has elapsed, and i agree with a number of members who express a sense of frustration that the deadlines set at amsterdam and tampere have not been adhered to at political level. there is a saying in the english language: 'you can bring a horse to water but you cannot make it drink'. this is one of the problems. you have to decide whether the political will is there. are people willing to carry out the mandates that, in a burst of enthusiasm, they may adopt at a council meeting? are they willing to do the basic political work to achieve the implementation of the agendas they have set themselves? a second point about the area of freedom, security and justice is this: it is not a repressive but an uplifting agenda. i want to echo a number of contributions here that remind us that the fight against crime, for instance, is a positive struggle to enhance and vindicate the rights of people who would otherwise be victims of crime. thus, it is not a matter of ministers of the interior or ministers for justice at jha level combining to think up new repressive measures, but the obverse side of the coin, which is about the rights of individuals and the right to fully enjoy an area of freedom, security and justice. i echo what mr collins, mr beysen and others have said about the importance of practical cooperation. terrorists are not afraid of a framework decision. terrorists are not even afraid of some of the outworkings of decisions on terrorism, such as enhanced penalties for those who are convicted. the main thing the european union can do in relation to terrorism is not at paper level, but in the area of pragmatic, concrete cooperation on a day-to-day basis between the various agencies in the member states and the european agencies, to make sure that the scourge of terrorism does not destroy the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building. so we can never simply consider these matters on a legislative or paper policy basis. we have to look at them on a pragmatic, concrete, cooperative basis as well. that also has to be said in relation to europol. what is needed is to make that agency function, not to consider endlessly to whom it should be accountable, so that it is the engine of cooperation among the member states in the fight against terrorism. sometimes there is a danger that we engage in the politics of the book of genesis: let there be light – and there is light. in my view that approach is appropriate in some areas where it is important to create a political agenda and to create a legal framework for certain areas of progress; but we should also be very conscious that we cannot simply legislate for security, freedom and justice. we must act to achieve these outcomes. mrs karamanou and mrs banotti mentioned practical issues to do with civil law and its application to victims of illegal trafficking for sexual purposes, and also family law areas. i believe that very substantial progress has been made in these areas so far, but there is a lot more to be done, particularly in relation to the protection of ordinary people's rights: the right not to be exploited sexually or, for instance, the right to have access to one's children. in all of those areas we have to ensure that the emerging new european union is an area which upholds those rights, rather than an area which creates new opportunities for people to avoid those rights. mr hernández mollar referred to the issue of terrorism and the commemoration of the victims of terrorism. his is a view with which i personally very much sympathise. sometimes we see terrorism purely as a newspaper story, but we must concentrate on upholding the rights of victims and acknowledging the terrible damage that terrorism does. i would also like to deal with the migration issue. it is fashionable to say that the justice and home affairs council concentrates on combating illegal immigration and that there is not sufficient emphasis on legal migration and its implications, such as integration and the like. i should like to echo the sentiments expressed by mrs banotti, which i believe are shared by many people here, that migration – inward migration into the european union – is not merely inevitable, but desirable. europe needs to be enriched culturally, economically and socially by the possibilities of migration. migration should not be regarded as negative, something to be controlled or discouraged. migration is undoubtedly a phenomenon of the globalised world in which we live. societies that can deal with migration positively and without fear are societies that are, as a consequence, much richer and more just internally. there are two outstanding opinions which, for the purposes of getting through our presidency agenda, we look forward to receiving from parliament. i mentioned this in committee last month. i should like to emphasise again that i would ask parliament for its cooperation in this respect. as regards the whole issue of the igc, it is the role of the irish presidency to attempt to consult, reflect and report to the march council meeting on possible progress on the igc. i believe that whether such progress is made quickly or slowly, it is a very important task for the irish presidency to make as much progress as possible in bringing together the member states behind the drive to implement a new constitutional treaty for the european union. in relation to one aspect of that treaty, many members have spoken about the need for transparency. there has been an undercurrent of concern in this morning's debate about the lack of transparency and a sense of the lack of consultation with and exclusion of parliament in the justice and home affairs area. i have already mentioned the level of consultation that exists at the moment. one of the difficulties of getting 15 – shortly to be 25 – member states to agree on proposals lies in the need to have some elbow room, to negotiate with them and for them to express their positions on paper. i ask parliament to at least understand that all the working papers – some of which reflect the shifting positions of member states – could, on the one hand, be thrown open to public scrutiny; but on the other hand, the character of those papers would probably be altered if they were to be the subject of constant scrutiny. the flexibility and the willingness of member states to make concessions, once they had established a position on paper, could be significantly impaired if every single action in the deliberative process was to be thrown open to the widest possible scrutiny. so i ask members of this house to understand that there is a balance to be struck between accountability and efficiency in a deliberative process involving 25 member states. i want to thank each and every member for the very constructive and stimulating debate. i know that both the presidency and the commission intend to take on board all of the contributions that have been made here. i thank parliament for its courtesy in hearing me today.
council. mr president, that represents my view entirely. the tampere ii agenda must be set in progress. i would love to be in a position to apply my mind to that process, but unfortunately the amount of work i have to do in closing out items is huge. i wish the netherlands and the luxembourg presidencies every good luck and good fortune in establishing a new forward-looking perspective, to create a new and challenging agenda under the broad rubric of tampere ii.
commission. mr president, i thank the rapporteur, once again, and all those who have participated in this debate. when we discuss asylum and migration on behalf of the commission, i would like to stress that all our proposals were totally in line with the goals decided upon by the heads of state and government in tampere. it is extremely unfair and pure demagogy to say that the approach of the commission to this policy area is lax. it is not at all. all the instruments on the table try to strike the right balance between proactive and positive actions towards migrants and asylum-seekers on the one hand, and on the other hand, guaranteeing the security of the borders and adequate management of migratory flows. the commission has tried to achieve this balance through a very broad set of proposals. i recognise before the house that in some cases the degree of the commission's ambition has not been matched by the council. this is, as you all know much better than i, the normal way of building europe: a step-by-step approach and an incremental approach. if you compare the legally-binding acquis – and that is a very appropriate word – in this area today with the acquis of five years ago, you have to recognise that there has been enormous progress and we should not be self-defeating. we should be proactive and voluntarist and try to mobilise citizens to do even more and better in the near future. in the field of civil liberties, there is permanent tension between the guarantee of fundamental rights and the guarantee of security. it is not a given; it is something that you need to find in each decision taken every day. i believe, to be frank, that when we integrate the charter of fundamental rights into the new constitutional treaty, when we discuss procedural guarantees, when we include some procedural guarantees in the framework decisions on approximation of criminal sanctions, we are trying to find the right balance between freedom and security. mr santini reminded us that one of the greatest achievements of this legislature – i hope it will be possible to conclude the process before the end of the term of this parliament – is the new legislation on the freedom of movement of our own citizens. i remind you of the fact that when we talk about reinforcing our external border security and guaranteeing our internal security, we do it, not in a repressive way, but in the name of freedom. it is to preserve the freedom of movement and the abolition of our internal borders that we need to reinforce the security of our external borders. it is in the name of freedom that we say we should be more efficient in integrating legal migrants. for that purpose, we need to guarantee to our own public that we have the situation under control. i cannot give you a different speech, because this is the one i have been making since the very beginning. may i invite you to re-read the commission's communication of november 2000 about immigration policy and compare it with the speech that un secretary-general kofi annan made two weeks ago before parliament. i am sorry if this looks a little presumptuous on my part, but please make the comparison and then we will talk about it. my third remark is about data protection. to be frank with you, when we talk about introducing biometrics in some travel documents, we need to be very careful in guaranteeing that we are proportionate in the kind of data that we choose, in the types of data storage systems and in the types of control and supervision carried out by the necessary authorities. my argument is to draw your attention to the fact that today data protection in the third pillar is under the full authority and responsibility of member states. we are trying to create a level playing field at european level to guarantee that in all 25 member states there will be the same pattern of protection of personal data when it comes to law enforcement. for this purpose, the existing directives based on the first pillar are not sufficient. i hope that i will have the possibility to introduce these proposals by june this year and to present them to you. my last remark is about the budget. i thank mr ribeiro e castro and mr coelho for drawing attention to the fact that in order to fulfil our ambitious goals, we need to have the necessary financial tools. as you will see in the proposals that the commission presented yesterday for the new financial perspectives for 2007-2013, the area of freedom, security and justice has been given the adequate financial tools to address our ambitious goals. when it comes to tampere ii i endorse what mr mcdowell has just said. i hope that during the netherlands' presidency it will be possible to have a tampere ii european council. what will be the suggestions for that tampere ii? i shall highlight three main issues: first, being fair in assessing the shortcomings and the unfinished business of tampere i – there will be the heritage from tampere i that should be taken on board in tampere ii; second, clear objectives are set out in the constitutional treaty – tampere ii should closely follow the agenda that was defined in that treaty; and last but not least, tampere ii should focus more adequately on the quality of the transposition of european legislation in this area at national level, and on monitoring concrete implementation of the acquis in the 25 member states. i look forward to the debate on this subject that has been suggested by mr hernández mollar, and the commission will come forward with its own ideas in a new communication in june 2004. (applause)
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at the march part-session.
- the next item is the joint debate on the oral questions from the pse group, the greens/efa group, the eldr group and the gue/ngl group to the council (b5-0008/2004) and to the commission (b5-0013/2004) on nuclear disarmament: the 2005 review conference of the non-proliferation treaty - the eu's preparations for the third preparatory meeting (new york, 26 april - 7 may 2004).
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place on 26 february in brussels.
- i would like to welcome a delegation of 15 members of parliament and senators representing the mercosur countries (argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay) who are in the guest list. the delegation is led by mr alfredo atanasof, argentine member of parliament and chairman of the mercosur joint parliamentary committee. the purpose of the visit is to take part in the sixth interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and the mercosur joint parliamentary committee, which will take place today and tomorrow in strasbourg. as you know, the eu and mercosur are negotiating an agreement on economic cooperation and political coordination and cooperation. i am therefore pleased to welcome the delegation and i hope that the interparliamentary meeting will be a great success. i should also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on the council statement on the eu's position on the international court of justice hearing on the israeli wall has been postponed until 3 p.m. so that we can move on to the vote in a few minutes.
the socialist group proposes an oral amendment to paragraph 12 which reads as follows:
(es) madam president, quite frankly, i am not very interested in entering into the debate on the matter of the wall of shame at the international court of justice. it is clear that we are facing a wall that is a moral disgrace and a political mistake, but i fear that we risk raising another wall, this time of smoke, by devoting our time to this instead of exerting the pressure, effort and political will necessary to really push the israeli-palestinian peace process forward. it is true that the famous wall makes it difficult to create a palestinian state, but it is also true that the existence of the settlements makes it impossible to create a viable palestinian state, and even more so the absence of political will to act accordingly. i take this opportunity to point out that other significant smoke-curtains are emerging, such as the recent announcement by the bush administration that it is preparing a vast plan to reform the arab-islamic world and integrate it into a western security umbrella. now, it seems, the american ultraconservatives are talking about a reformed greater middle east as a foreign policy priority, which would facilitate - they say - the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict. i do not think it is a serious project to create democracy and prosperity from morocco to pakistan overnight. i think it is more of an attempt to distract public opinion from the presidential elections in november, now that the same public opinion is finding that president bush's electoral imperatives are imposed on the supposed intention of advancing the middle east peace process. moreover, this so-called grand project for the middle east would lose its centrality to the israeli-palestinian conflict. it seems that the union is to be incorporated into that project. it should be remembered that the union is the protagonist of the barcelona process, which will not succeed - at least not fully - until the conflict between the palestinians and the israelis is brought to an end. another smokescreen is being erected by prime minister sharon at the moment. he, prime minister sharon, who spends his life announcing painful concessions that he never carries out and who has been unable to dismantle the so-called illegal enclaves - that is, four wagons scattered on four west bank hills - now says he will evacuate the settlements in gaza. i would certainly give the prime minister the benefit of the doubt, provided that it is not finally shown that his project is to transfer the settlers from gaza to the west bank settlements, which are the real obstacles to the viability of the palestinian state that the quartet claims to promote.
- the next item is the question time (b5-0007/2004). we are addressing a number of questions to the council.
question no 1 by maría izquierdo rojo (h-0845/03) subject: threats to cultures and social patterns in andalusia as a result of the proposals for a new common organization of the market in olive oil, cotton and tobacco the proposals made by the commission for the mediterranean crops of olives, cotton and tobacco would, in their present form, represent a serious threat to the cultures and to the social and economic fabric of the most vulnerable objective 1 regions. the problem will be exacerbated by the absence of alternatives to these cultures which would equally create jobs and prosperity in the areas concerned. the commission has not put forward any serious proposals to replace the jobs that will be lost in agriculture, nor does it intend to change well-functioning market organizations. on the other hand, over time, the eu's structural policy has invested large sums in building this socioeconomic agricultural model, and now a significant part of these investments, which have required so much effort, are being destroyed. will the irish presidency make the adoption of such proposals conditional upon the submission of viable alternative programmes and projects which can safeguard employment and the existing pattern of society?
council. in november 2003 the council started its examination of the legislative proposals that the commission had forwarded to it on 18 november 2003, aimed, inter alia, at integrating the support schemes for cotton, olive oil and table olives, tobacco and hops into the regulation on general reform of the cap, which the council adopted in september 2003. an initial general debate was held on these two proposals for regulations at the agricultural and fisheries council on 17 december 2003. at that meeting the producer member states' delegations voiced their misgivings about the impact which the proposed measures would have on the sectors concerned, in the knowledge that it involved crops located, for the most part, in objective 1 areas with conversion difficulties. these discussions are ongoing and it would be premature to prejudge the outcome of the proceedings and discussions to be held in the council. nonetheless, the council will pay special attention to the impact of the reform on regions whose agricultural economy relies heavily on crops covered by the reform. the council and the commission have taken due account of the european parliament's opinion in the framework of the reconciliation procedure and will endeavour to find a balanced solution, taking into account the various interests at stake.
(es) thank you very much for this reply, although i find it a bit vague. i would like to ask the council whether it would be prepared to consider these measures - which are to be adopted in the coms - as provisional until we have the data on their impact on agricultural employment. i understand from your reply that there is indeed a risk of a negative impact on agricultural employment, which the council does not want, and my question is whether, until this impact is known, the council should not consider these measures as 'provisional'.
council. i take the point made by the member. i am not sure whether one could attach the term 'provisional'. the presidency is aware that these proposals could have an impact on the social fabric, particularly in regions such as andalusia. we are very concerned about that. the presidency is aware of the concerns of producer member states that, if alternative enterprises are not available for farmers who are in receipt of decoupled or partly-decoupled payments, they could opt out of production altogether and that would leave the area with resulting damage to the rural fabric. i believe that is the point of the member's question. the commission has taken this into consideration in formulating its proposals. it proposes that a percentage of the producers' support expenditure be retained as national envelopes to address such problems. so there is an element of contingency built into the proposals. the council will look closely at those elements of the commission's proposals and will try to find a compromise solution that will be acceptable to producer member states. as i have said, the irish presidency is particularly aware of this type of potentially negative regional impact. we are very concerned that it should be minimised.
question no 2 by mary elizabeth banotti (h-0847/03) subject: social inclusion and the third sector in view of this, how high is the priority of the irish presidency for tackling social exclusion and poverty and how will the council promote social integration in the eu's distressed areas?
council. it is actually a very interesting and comprehensive question, as i would have expected from mary banotti. as mrs banotti is undoubtedly aware, the lisbon european council in march 2000 asked the member states and the commission in particular to take steps to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty; the whole lisbon agenda was not just focused on enterprise. it also agreed that member states should coordinate their policies to combat poverty and social exclusion on the basis of the open method of coordination, combining common objectives, national action plans and commonly-agreed indicators with the aim of promoting more ambitious and effective policy strategies for social inclusion, together with a community action programme to run from 2002 to 2006 and designed to encourage cooperation and the sharing of experience and best practice between the member states. that was a rather long-winded sentence, but the proposition was focused in a way that makes sense. following the submission of the second round national action programmes on social inclusion for the period 2003-2005, the commission adopted its second report on social inclusion in december 2003. this report identifies key trends and challenges across the union. it is also interesting in that it identifies group practice and innovative approaches of common interest. that will form the basis of the joint council and commission report on social inclusion which will be presented in march at the spring european council. an important feature of the report is the increased attention given to regional and local variations in the levels of poverty and social exclusion, and how the underlying causes of poverty and social exclusion can vary from region to region. i suspect that this was an issue that was very much in mrs banotti's mind when she framed her question. on a regional basis, in particular, declining regions with negative migration, high unemployment and increasing dependency contrast with problems of congested and growing regions where issues of accommodation feature more highly. there are differences and regional disparities which feed into the overall picture. the issue of marginal rural areas with ageing populations, poor services and higher dependency levels is also highlighted in the study. in addition, specific emphasis is being given to the particular concentrations of poverty and multiple deprivation in communities, particularly urban communities, for example amongst migrant populations. the point i am making about poverty is that there are regional differences and disparities, as we are all aware. this is the background and against this background the report stresses the importance for member states to develop integrated and coordinated strategies at local and regional level. this is particularly important in communities facing multiple disadvantages. such strategies should adapt policies to the local situation, facilitate the mobilisation and involvement of all actors – including the third sector – and ensure more accessible and quality services for the poor and for socially-excluded citizens. as far as the irish presidency is concerned, the presidency will take all necessary steps to ensure that the union's social inclusion goals are fully reflected during the course of the preparation and in the follow-up to the spring european council. for the first time, for example, in march 2004, the meeting of the employment and social policy, health and consumer affairs council will forward to the spring council a key messages paper which will include its views on the issue. it will also report on the lisbon goals relating to social protection and employment policy, including the goals of combating poverty and fostering social inclusion in member states. finally, the irish presidency will take a number of initiatives to assist member states to develop further policies and programmes to combat poverty and foster social inclusion. there will be three specific conferences during the course of the irish presidency. the first of these is to be held on 1 and 2 april in bundoran in county donegal, a particularly appropriate location given its regional position. it will address reconciling mobility and social inclusion and the role of social and economic policy. the second will be held on 13 and 14 may in dublin: the families, change and social policy in europe conference. this will include a discussion on the family as a focus of social inclusion and social cohesion. the third will be on 28 and 29 may in brussels. it will be a follow-up to a previous conference. it will be a special meeting of people from european union countries who have experienced poverty. the aim of this conference will be to develop further ways to promote the participation, at all levels, of people experienced in poverty and to promote the creation of structural networks to facilitate this. i am sure the member will agree with me that in framing policy, no matter how good policy-makers are, it is only by listening to people who have had the experience on the ground that you really make policies which are focused efficiently and effectively on the needs of families and communities in poverty.
council. i am sure the honourable member would not want me to dwell on the excellent policies – in particular the social inclusion policies – that the government of ireland has recently introduced, but would perhaps want me to make sure that i address this appropriately in a council dimension. in my reply i made the particular point that even in affluent areas – indeed the member mentioned an area which is generally perceived as very affluent, and quite rightly so – there is poverty and deprivation. one of the issues we face in ireland is that, in many ways – particularly when people produce statistics to support the kind of contention which has just been made – we are the victims of our own success; that is one of the charges which is made. i am aware that some of the studies focused on in the honourable member's question have suggested, for example, that in ireland a lower proportion of gdp is devoted to social protection than in the rest of the eu. the figures often used are 14% or 14.7%, compared with an eu average of 27.5%. that is where some of these basic comparisons are made. that is, however, a statistical aberration if you look in detail at the statistical base on which the comparisons are made. ireland's gdp, for example, is up to 15% more than its gross national income. that is very unusual in a member state. it arises largely because of the nature of our economic development, as the honourable member will know, and arises predominantly because of repatriation of capital funds. social protection, as a percentage of gdp, would be over 70%, which is a more realistic indicator. rather than get involved in a big statistical debate, the point can, and should, be made that poverty and pockets of poverty will be found in any society, irrespective of how affluent it is. that is why anti-poverty programmes must be more strategically focused and based on listening experiences, and we in the irish presidency are trying to achieve this. poverty is very much a relative issue. any objective observer would say that most member states – including my own member state – have done extremely well recently. however, one always has to be focused on the specific type of poverty which was addressed in the supplementary question and which i sought to address in my original response. individual pockets will inevitably occur. however, to get back to reality, the situation in the place we both hail from is rather better than the prognosis sometimes suggests.
question no 3 by lennart sacrédeus (h-0849/03) subject: journalist dawit isaac disappeared in eritrea in september 2001 the eritrean government banned independent newspapers. 10 journalists, including dawit isaac, were imprisoned. dawit isaac is a swedish and eritrean citizen and co-founded setit, eritrea's first private newspaper. the eritrean government refuses to comment on the whereabouts of dawit and the others. the eritrean government says he is being held for reasons of national security. dawit isaac has not yet been allowed to meet with representatives of the swedish authorities and there is growing concern that he is not alive. how does the council intend to put pressure on the eritrean government to clarify the fate of the eu citizen dawit isaac and to allow his family and the swedish authorities to meet him?
council. i am aware of this case. the council remains deeply concerned about the human rights situation in eritrea in general, not just this specific case. the european union's relations with the eritrean government have progressed over the last two years, after the difficult situation in late 2001, and a dialogue on the internal situation and on the peace process has been re-established. that is very welcome. in meetings at local level the heads of mission have expressed, on several occasions, the union's concern at the imprisonment of a number of people – among them many journalists – and the suppression of the independent press. requests that those arrested be either charged or released have been reiterated. in october 2003 the council welcomed the recent steps taken by the government of eritrea to restore a climate of general communication and to develop a meaningful political dialogue with the union. the eu also called upon the government to operationalise the dialogue, which is based on democracy, the rule of law and other essential elements of the cotonou agreement. in this context the council will continue to raise individual cases, such as the case mentioned, with the government of eritrea. i reiterate that the issue of detainees has been formally raised within the framework of political dialogue. the italian presidency specifically raised cases such as that of mr dawit isaac – who is of dual nationality – directly with the eritrean authorities. the irish presidency will do everything that it can to support the hard work of the swedish authorities who have been attempting to secure information on – and, more importantly, access to – mr isaac.
council. i can well understand the concerns here. it has been some time since we have had news of mr isaac. all i can do is reiterate the point i made: the council reaffirms very much the european union's commitment to and respect for human rights. in fact, as the member mentioned, human rights are not determined geographically; they are a universal fact of life, and every state with which this union has any contact must be aware of our concerns in this regard, particularly where a person holds dual nationality which involves them being a citizen of an eu member state. i can well appreciate and support the member's comments.
- question no 4 by gerard collins (h-0850/03):on the eu and south africacan the president of the council explain how the council assesses the development of eu relations with south africa during 2004? does the council consider that the eu and south africa can cooperate constructively in mobilising and coordinating the support of the eu and the international community for the great lakes conference on peace, security, democracy and development, which the un security council only endorsed as far back as october 1994?
council. i would like to thank mr collins, who has a long-held and active interest in all matters relating to africa, and indeed a very distinguished record in this particular regard. the european union sees south africa as a major partner in its relations with africa, not only in bilateral terms but also because of its role in sadc, in the african union and in general in conflict resolution in africa. south africa has successfully organised and chaired conferences to solve the conflicts in the democratic republic of congo and in burundi, and this month the eu paid tribute to south africa's decisive contribution in the conclusion of the political agreement with the comoros. south africa has also contributed peace-keeping troops within unac-mandated missions to such an extent that the country has become the largest contributor to peace-keeping operations in africa, and that by any standards is an extraordinarily distinguished record. the european union has recognised these activities through public statements and has helped south africa to finance its deployment with the african mission in burundi, since it is a considerable financial drain on a country like south africa, which still faces significant internal challenges – poverty, unemployment and of course the hiv/aids pandemic. south africa has played a very helpful and positive role in getting the eu-africa dialogue back on track after the planned summit in lisbon was postponed. south africa is also a key supporter of the nepad initiative. in the coming months under the irish presidency of the council, we will provide a number of occasions to deepen the dialogue with south africa. following the political dialogue meeting in the margins of the fourth meeting of the eu-south africa cooperation council in pretoria in december 2003, the presidency is organising a senior officials' meeting in south africa early in its term, as well as a ministerial troika, a meeting which will be held in dublin. the meetings will allow an opportunity to deepen our dialogue and to discuss issues of mutual concern. 2004 is a particularly important year for south africa as it celebrates ten years of democracy on 27 april. it is expected that eu member states will be represented on this important occasion. such an occasion is a cause of pride in south africa, and we should share fully in that country's pride and in its achievements. a planned conference on the great lakes is a unau initiative, building very much on african ownership. ibrahima fall, the special representative of the united nations secretary-general, is responsible for the organisation of this conference and prepares it together with national preparatory committees in the seven core countries. the eu special representative for the great lakes region has offered his assistance and participated in some of the preparatory meetings. we will remain focused on this important conference which will seek to bring peace fully to this troubled region. let me again assure the honourable member and you, mr president, that the irish presidency will engage with south africa and other key african partners on this very significant and important issue.
council. mr president, that is a very interesting question. it is, as the member has suggested, critically important that the european union engage with south africa on the sensitive issue of zimbabwe. issues in africa cannot be resolved by people externally wagging fingers. the european union acknowledges the leading role of south africa, not just on the zimbabwe issue but generally on the continent. it has a particularly significant role to play in its own southern african region. therefore, we will engage bilaterally with south africa on the issue of zimbabwe, as we do with the southern africa development community of which south africa is the leading member. it has been agreed with both sadc and the african union that zimbabwe should be discussed as an issue of mutual concern. to take the point made by mr collins, the crisis in zimbabwe directly affects its neighbouring countries and affects south africa too. the impact of the situation in that troubled land on its surrounding countries has been the subject of discussion in the eu-africa ministerial troika as recently as november 2003. the recent european union-sadc joint committee of senior officials also discussed the issue. in our political dialogue with south africa last december, there was a constructive exchange of views in relation to zimbabwe and the south african side acknowledged eu humanitarian assistance to that troubled state. to return to the point made by mr collins, i absolutely agree with him. a part of the key to resolving the problems in zimbabwe will be found in south africa. south africa is a key player and the union, as mr collins suggests, must engage with south africa in that regard.
council. 'yes' is the obvious answer. better business relations very frequently come after peace processes, rather than before them, but clearly anything that could contribute to the economic wellbeing of the particular area would be significant and important. there is no particular initiative in mind at the moment with regard to sme involvement in that part of the continent. there are a number of areas that would be of significance during the course of the irish presidency. we do not have formal agendas but we are looking, for example, at a review of south african developments in the context of the tenth anniversary of freedom and at a review of eu developments, particularly enlargement. we will also be looking in terms of developments in the african union and in the new partnership for african development. the formation of the african union and nepad is another important initiative. there is no substitute for african states taking ownership. africa will have to take ownership but we in europe have to support africa in that. there is no substitute for african states taking ownership of the continent on the basis of a united approach. initiatives such as the african union and nepad are of great importance. one of the ambitions of the irish presidency is to raise issues relating to africa higher up the agenda of the european union. it would not only be positive in itself for europe to take a more active role and interest in africa, but europe also has some moral responsibilities in the matter.
question no 5 has been withdrawn. question no 6 by brian crowley (h-0853/03) subject: call for good practice on the protection of children in youth work in europe as the council will be aware, the eu youth programme provides mobility and non-formal education for thousands of young people aged 15-25 and is open to young people in 30 european countries. it provides young people with opportunities in the form of group exchanges and individual volunteering as well as support activities. will the council, in order to ensure that the eu is a leader in the protection of young people participating in such programmes against child abuse, and in the light of the irish code of good practice: protection of children in the sector of youth work (september 2002), act immediately to ensure that a child protection policy or strategy is incorporated into the youth programme and propose that a decision on this issue be adopted at the next meeting of the youth council? will the council also take the necessary steps to ensure that a high-level task force on child protection is set up in connection with the evaluation of the eu's youth programme?
council. that is a very interesting question – as i would expect from one of the more youthful members of this house. the council will begin its discussion of the commission's proposal for the post-2006 youth programme once it has been formally adopted by the commission and forwarded to parliament and the council. in the meantime, it would not be appropriate for the council to prejudge in any way the content of the proposal, which is entirely within the commission's initiative. in parallel, the presidency will take forward work on the new generation of european education, training and youth programmes. the presidency programme in the youth field includes a draft resolution on social inclusion with regard to young people which will, inter alia, invite member states, in pursuance of the social integration issues contained in the white paper on youth, to develop strategies and proposals to ensure that meaningful social inclusion measures are developed in the context of youth policy. i should also like to underline that the council is conscious of the need to protect children against exploitation in all forms. this is an area in which the council has adopted a number of measures, in particular, on 22 december 2003, a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the framework decision obliges member states to punish specific conduct linked to the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography as criminal offences under their individual national laws.
council. mr crowley is correct: modern technology and the evolution of modern technology bring a particular challenge. the cases which have been highlighted, for example in the irish national media and the media in other countries, illustrate just how difficult it is for member states to keep abreast of technologies and the abuse of technologies. the protection of children – particularly in terms of the internet and other evolving technologies – is clearly something to be concerned about. with regard to pornography, and the actual peddling of pornographic images – whether on the internet or via the new mobile phone networks – the framework decision of 22 december 2003 on combating sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is relevant. according to the framework decision, each member state should take the necessary measures to ensure that all forms of child abuse are punishable. what the framework decision had in mind – and this again illustrates how correct mr crowley is – was the exploitation by commercial interests of technologies. what it did not have in mind, clearly, was the type of abuse that has been highlighted in the press commentary to which mr crowley has drawn attention. the focus is obviously on prohibiting commercial exploitation and commercial abuse of new technologies as a form of child pornography and exploitation. the proposals provide that in respect of offences concerning child pornography, each member state should take the necessary measures to ensure that the production, distribution, supply and acquisition of child pornography are punishable. this will touch on the specific point that mr crowley was making about the new technology of mobile phones with photographic or video capacity. the framework directive is able to address the type of problem that he highlights. it makes the primarily responsibility in this regard for dealing with issues as they arise a matter for each individual member state.
council. the honourable member is correct because unemployment, youth unemployment in particular, is a particularly difficult area. part of the overall, general lisbon process is to address unemployment at all levels. a famous political leader in my own country once said that a rising tide lifts all boats, in other words, that the best answer to poverty and the best answer to unemployment is to create jobs and to create the appropriate economic environment. within the council's working party on promoting good practice in child protection and youth work across europe you will find a reference to creating more coherence across policies, creating more coordination and cooperation in the formulation of policies of a social nature to address difficulties that appear in this sector. that call includes policies in relation to housing, education, training, social welfare, employment, health issues, crime prevention measures and many others. poverty produces many ugly results and when poverty affects young people, particularly in a modern society, it poses specific challenges for policy-makers, as the honourable member has suggested. i take note of his comment and his suggestions.
question no 7 has been withdrawn. question no 8 by liam hyland (h-0857/03) subject: labelling of meat products a recent consumer survey carried out by the irish department of agriculture and food reveals that most consumers want specific information on the country of origin of all meat products. what is the council's position on extending the regulations on beef labelling to the foodservice sector?
council. i am sure we would all join in sending good wishes and a speedy recovery to mr fitzsimons: a colourful man. mr hyland asked a very important question, given some of the scares about foods, in general, and health risks. the council is aware of the concerns that have been expressed by mr hyland. however, a proposal from the commission, which would provide the basis for a detailed examination by the council, is still awaited. the question anticipates something that will happen. i understand that shortly the commission will submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the application of current rules on beef labelling that will examine, in particular, the issue raised. the council will then have the opportunity to discuss it in depth and will wish to ensure the greatest possible protection of consumers' interests. i should like to make a further remark to my good friend liam hyland on this matter. the whole issue of labelling and of how labelling and consumer protection are interrelated has been something that mr hyland has been very active in for years. his question anticipates something that the commission is about to do. his thinking has been in advance in this area for such a long time. in his question he identified an area that will require attention from the commission, the council and parliament.
council. as one of liam hyland's many satisfied constituents all i would like to say to the house is that i too am sad that he has decided to hang up his spurs in this house. i have no doubt whatsoever that he will take his extraordinary energies and talents and employ them very well elsewhere. ireland's gain in getting liam back full-time will be this house's loss. the member is absolutely correct, because there are valid concerns about food safety and about the issue of labelling and the issue of traceability. for example, the bse and foot-and-mouth scares shook consumer confidence right across europe. the recent issues relating to avian flu mentioned by mr hyland have certainly shaken consumer confidence. in fact, it is not just an important issue: consumers have a right to be informed on an ongoing basis on any issue that is significant in terms of food safety. the irish presidency intends to facilitate the discussion of the labelling issue – which is the core of my hyland's question – when the commission presents its report, which we hope to see in the near future. we are particularly concerned to get this matter on the council's table as soon as possible. in fact, in ireland a detailed study on the issue was carried out by a specially-established food labelling group. arising from the report of this group my colleague, minister walsh, minister for agriculture and food, wrote to commissioner byrne in the autumn of 2003 and suggested that labelling regulations, specifically beef labelling regulations, should be extended to the catering sector. this is the very point that mr hyland has been making. consumers have an absolute right to know where beef comes from and they have an absolute right to know what has gone into it because the adulteration of food products is a very serious matter. my colleague, minister walsh, has asked that concerns in this matter be taken into account when the commission is drawing up its report, and we look forward to the commission communication in this regard sooner rather than later.
question no 9 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0859/03) subject: consultation of stakeholders in the fisheries sector does the council agree that fishermen and their representative organisations should be given greater participation and involvement in the decision-making process on the cfp? does the council agree that closer links should be developed between fishermen and scientists, so as to improve the transparency of scientific recommendations, so that fishermen can have confidence in those recommendations which form the basis of decisions on fisheries management? does the council also agree that regional advisory councils involving fishermen and their organisations in the decision-making process are the way forward?
council. this is a question from mr ó neachtain: a good west-of-ireland name. the council shares the view of the honourable member that fishermen and their representative organisations not only should but must be allowed to have greater participation and involvement in the decision-making processes of the common fisheries policy. this is one of the principles agreed in the reform of the cfp adopted by the council in december 2002. closer links between fishermen and scientists would improve the transparency of scientific advice and that type of link is also to be encouraged. the council believes that regional advisory councils – racs – are the way forward. as the president of the council said to the fisheries committee in january, these regional advisory councils will provide a forum where all stakeholders can come together and discuss issues of concern. this process of dialogue should gradually lead to greater mutual understanding and trust. a few years back, as a member of the irish parliament, i chaired a parliamentary committee which looked at the difficulties which the fishery industry had relating to officials in various regulatory agencies in ireland. one of the suggestions we made at that time was that the very type of dialogue which mr ó neachtain has actually been promoting in the fishing industry is centrally important if both actors are to understand their respective roles. the council aims to adopt the decision on establishing the racs as soon as possible once it has heard the views of this parliament on the matter. the council looks forward to receiving these; again, sooner rather than later. i know that mr ó neachtain will make a distinguished and very vigorous contribution to that debate.
council. i should like to thank mr ó neachtain for that. the response to his supplementary question was implicit in my response to the original question. the presidency indicated clearly last month that the regional advisory councils would provide an important forum for all stakeholders. there are issues to be resolved but i would agree with the general tenet that consulting stakeholders in the fishing sector is critically important,the irish presidency will be pushing forward the issue of how we communicate with citizens at all levels – corporate groups of citizens and private citizens at all levels. the type of development which mr ó neachtain has actually been pushing for some time is very consistent with the central policy plank of the irish presidency, and that is to improve, across the board, the relationship between the community and the citizens of europe, whether those citizens are involved in fishing or farming or any other enterprise.
- as they concern the same subject, we will deal with question no 10 by mr alexandros alavanos, taken over by mr dimitrios koulourianos (h-0861/03):on: efforts to resolve the cyprus problem according to many analysts, the elections in the so-called 'turkish republic of northern cyprus' could provide a new impetus towards a solution to the cyprus problem. does the council believe that the outcome of this election will create the conditions for a solution to the problem? question no 11 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0042/04): is the position taken by turkey a strengthening of the initiatives for a solution to the cyprus problem? during his recent visit to the united states, turkish prime minister tayyip erdogan clearly stated to the foreign affairs council that the annan plan was not a basis for negotiation but could be used as a reference point in the negotiations. he stressed that both an independent and impartial country with political weight and a new representative of kofi annan should be involved in the negotiations. does the council consider that, in the light of this information and the fact that mr rauf denktash remains the official negotiator of the turkish cypriot side, there is a possibility of a rapid and permanent solution to the political problem of the island? can the council see if there is any chance that cyprus will be able to join the eu as a single entity on 1 may 2004 with the implementation of the community law in force throughout the territory of cyprus? does the council intend to take concrete initiatives to implement such a policy?
council. i understand the question, but this is a very delicate period. the member will be aware that talks involving the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot leaders are continuing as we speak at the united nations headquarters in new york under the auspices of the secretary-general. therefore we all have a responsibility to exercise great care in commenting publicly on the prospects for progress at this time. there is no question that side issues, nudges or winks are going to be made in order to produce a resolution. in accordance with the clear commitment given to turkey at the copenhagen european council in december 2002, the european council will decide in december this year, on the basis of the report and recommendations from the commission, whether turkey has fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria. when very detailed and delicate negotiations are ongoing in new york, this is not the moment to get into speculations about other deals. the reality of it is that the offer has been made, it is on the table, it is there for discussion and will be decided on in december next year. it relates to the objective copenhagen criteria, which members of this house and the turkish government understand.
council. i have already indicated the objective basis on which an adjudication will be made on the issue of turkish membership. the union has been the strongest and most consistent supporter of secretary-general kofi annan's mission of good offices in cyprus. quite clearly, we are all very conscious of the role that the turkish government can play to bring about a resolution there. i go back to the earlier point that i made. the objective basis on which any application for european union membership will be decided is full and thorough compliance with the copenhagen criteria. that is the basis; there is no other kind of bargaining to be done.
question no 12 by mr josu ortuondo larrea (h-0001/04) subject: is the spanish government in breach of article 6 (1) of the treaty of union? more than 100 teachers and professors of criminal law at public universities across spain have published a manifesto in which they sharply criticize "the sad and endless drama" that the reforms of the criminal law implemented by the government of manuel aznar in 2003 have resulted in. the text criticises the recent amendment to the penal code, which is intended to prevent the head of the basque local government from calling a referendum among the basques, and he could be imprisoned if he does so. it also states that the 'intensified policy of repression' pursued by the spanish government in the judicial field is liable to lead to 'the collapse of the rule of law, which must necessarily be followed by barbarism'. is the council aware of these facts? article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union provides that 'the council may decide that there is a clear risk of a serious and persistent breach by a member state of the principles set out in article 6 (1) and may make appropriate recommendations to that member state'. does the council not feel that it has a moral, political and legal responsibility to examine the merits of the complaints and, if necessary, to adopt the necessary recommendations and measures?
council. the council refers the honourable member to the reply it gave to his oral question h-0806/03 on the same subject during question time at the january 2004 part-session. in this context, the council would highlight the fact that the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law – principles that are common to all member states.
(es) i would like these debates to be heard by the irish citizens who knew the times when you - the irish - were dependent on the london government, and who are still alive. peace is a fundamental objective of the european union and when more than a hundred professors and professors of criminal law from all over spain have been forced to publicly express the breakdown of the rule of law that is being caused by the current spanish government, i believe that we cannot look the other way if we want to maintain peace and integration. the peace and integration of europe are, of course, achieved by respecting democratic principles. are you convinced that the spanish government is respecting democratic principles and the rule of law?
council. i understand the passion in the question but i would make the point that i really cannot add anything further to the responses to this question which have already been supplied to the member, both on this occasion and on the previous occasion.
- question no 13 by mr bernd posselt (h-0003/04) subject: status of kosovo has the irish presidency considered how the question of kosovo's status could be addressed?
council. yes, the first point i have to make is that the member is obviously correct: economic progress very much depends on circumstances. as a lecturer for many years in one of our universities in ireland, i said that economic progress is the most delicate of all flowers and has to be nurtured by a very specific eco-environment which is especially friendly to its own needs. private investment in any troubled region is very obviously determined by the general climate. the eu is, however, anxious to support the economic development in kosovo. in unmik pillar 4 – i hate acronyms, by the way – the eu is assisting the revitalisation of economic activity in kosovo towards the creation of conditions of a modern, open-market economy. this is the point which is at the heart of the supplementary question. the aim must be to establish a sustainable private sector which can create employment because that is the only hope for the region. the aim is to provide a long-term perspective. the requirement would be to bring kosovo's legislative and administrative framework closer to european standards. if european companies are going to invest, that is what they will require. the european agency for reconstruction continues to finance and manage sustainable reconstruction and development programmes in kosovo. ultimately, the solution will have to be found on the ground in that state by creating the kind of conditions that the member has in mind. the presidency urges the provisional institutions to engage constructively in that process. the standards for kosovo document – agreed on 10 december 2003 – and the ongoing development of the implementation work can provide a clear framework with which the provisional institutions must comply, but they can also provide a framework in which the necessary confidence can be built up. the review mechanism announced on 5 november 2003 envisages that progress made by the provisional institutions towards meeting the benchmarks will be assessed during quarterly period reviews. if there is compliance with all of this it will build the type of confidence that is necessary if a sustainable economic development is to take place. sustainable economic development will only take place if and when the conditions for investment are adjudicated to be appropriate by private enterprise and by private investors.
(es) i would like to congratulate the irish presidency and the council on all the efforts they are making to resolve the kosovo conflict and other conflicts in the world. the council and the institutions are very concerned about what is happening in the world, and they are trying to find solutions and to make contributions to peace in the world and to resolving conflicts. the european union is also involved in the northern ireland conflict, contributing even financial resources to the peace process. does it seem to you, mr president-in-office of the council, that it is too much to ask that a little effort should also be devoted to the political conflict in the basque country, which is also part of the european union?
- although the question is relevant in itself, it is not relevant because it is not an additional question on the kosovo problem.
- as they concern the same subject, we will deal with question no 14 by miguel angel martínez martínez (h-0007/04) under one heading: on the violation of human rights in the detention of cubans in the united states. the circumstances surrounding the detention of five cuban nationals in the united states, and in particular the obstacles to their being able to contact their families, are evidence of a failure to respect international law and a violation of human rights by the us administration. the eu should intervene to ensure respect for human rights when they are violated, and it would not be acceptable to abdicate responsibility on the grounds that the abuses mentioned here are an internal matter between the united states and cuba. will the council take any action to request the us authorities to behave in a manner consistent with human rights and international law in relation to the imprisoned cubans and their families? question no 15 by mr pedro marset campos (h-0036/04) subject: violation of the human rights of cuban nationals in the united states the conditions under which five cuban nationals are imprisoned in the united states, cut off from direct contact with their immediate families, constitute a shocking violation of international law and a violation of human rights by the us government. does the council not think that the european union should intervene to protect human rights instead of shirking its responsibilities by claiming that this is a bilateral matter between the united states and cuba? does the council intend to do anything about this? is the present irish presidency aware of the italian presidency's failure to respond to the questions put by many members concerned about this matter?question no 16 by mrs ilda figueiredo (h-0058/04):on the violation by the united states of the human rights of cuban citizens the situation of five cuban citizens who have been wrongfully convicted and imprisoned in miami and without any contact with their immediate family constitutes a serious violation of human rights by the us government. is the council aware of the situation of these people? does the council intend to take a position on this so that the protection of human rights really applies to all and not just to a few? and question no 17 by mr efstratios korakas, adopted by mr ioannis patakis (h-0061/04): the human rights violations by the united states in relation to the five cuban nationals illegally detained the inhumane conditions, including the prohibition of all direct contact with relatives, imposed on the five cuban nationals detained in the united states for crimes they have never committed constitute an unprecedented violation of international law and a violation of fundamental human rights by the us government. does the council intend to take action to ensure that the united states respects the rights of the five detainees, thereby abandoning its current position of being a real accomplice? does the irish presidency feel that it should deal with this serious matter, or will it avoid it, as did the italian presidency, which failed to answer similar questions from several members of parliament?
council. the council has nothing to add to the answers which were given at the september 2003 part-session, nor to those given to similar questions – numbers h-0629/03 and h-0743/03 – at the november and december part-sessions.
- although the president-in-office's reply does not in principle give rise to additional questions, i will give you the opportunity to put them.
(es) thank you, mr president. the truth is that we will continue to ask questions as long as the problem and the suffering that motivate our intervention are still alive and the bureaucratic answers are still being given, and i would say that they are not even worthy of the respect that those who formulate them deserve. the five prisoners in question were sentenced to tremendous penalties in trials denounced as lacking any legal rigor - genuine farces - by american witnesses and jurists. the mockery of human rights is compounded when, in addition to the denial of human rights to prisoners, their families are also affected, being denied the fundamental right of visitation. my question is whether the council is interested in the human rights situation of these cubans or whether it is only interested in the human rights of other cubans, which have been the subject of much discussion in recent months. can our approach to human rights in cuba be selective, based on who violates rights or who is violated? is the president-in-office aware that the credibility and authority of the european union depend on our consistency? and here we are being deeply incoherent, although it is true that, next to the barbarity that is happening in guantanamo, this may seem a relatively minor issue.
council. i would hate to give mr martínez martínez a bureaucratic answer, because i have a great deal of respect for him, knowing him, as i have done, for many years. he is a good friend. the council again emphasises that it deplores any situation where human rights are not upheld. they are a universal concern. as would be the case for citizens in any other country, if the cuban government is concerned about the welfare of any of its citizens in the united states, it is free to raise the matter with the us authorities, as provided for in the vienna convention on consular relations. i must support the answers given during previous presidencies. the reality is that the vienna convention on consular relations provides the framework on which issues of this nature are dealt with and the means by which the cuban government is entitled to make representations on behalf of any of its citizens. there is one other issue on which i anticipate a supplementary question: access. i know access to prisoners by their relatives is one of mr martínez martínez's concerns. the position is that all states have an exclusive and unqualified right to decide on entry into their territory by non-nationals. i cannot add a great deal more than has already been said. however, i emphasise that the council deplores any situation where human rights are not upheld. as mr martínez martínez may be aware, i am a past human rights fellow of the united nations. i take all human rights issues very seriously indeed – irrespective of where they arise and irrespective of which states are involved.
(es) i should like to begin by thanking the president-in-office for his readiness to respond, but i am not satisfied with his reply because it is based on the vienna convention. however, the european union has acted in similar cases in other geographical areas. i therefore believe that the answer is not correct, because when there have been human rights problems between two countries which could have been party to this convention, the european union has indeed expressed its concern about human rights and has intervened to ask that respect for human rights be applied. i therefore ask you to review your argument and to complete it, otherwise you would be going down the road of partiality.
council. i certainly reject the suggestion that the european union, and certainly this presidency, is in any way equivocal on matters relating to human rights. as i have already said, the council and the european union deplore any situation where human rights are not upheld, but again, as i have already said, if the cuban government is concerned about the welfare of any of its citizens in the us, it is free to raise the matter directly with the us authorities, as provided for by the vienna convention on consular relations. that is the issue. that is where this matter lies. there is a right to raise the matter there. whether members are satisfied or not with that answer, it happens to be the position in international law. it is established by the convention and i can go no further.
council. if i answered mr crowley's question in the affirmative it would not be very quiet. however, he knows me well enough to know that i am bold enough to raise issues where they need to be discussed, even though they may sometimes cause discomfort. i do not want to create any false hopes, but i make the point that there are facilities, particularly within the context of the vienna convention, for the government of cuba – which is primarily responsible for the wellbeing of its citizens – to raise this issue if it so wishes.
- as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 18 to 33 will be answered in writing. . question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.01 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to say that the commission is very pleased with the support given by the european parliament in connection with the creation of a european monitoring process. the suggestions made by parliament on the specific features of this process - for which we are very grateful - will be taken into account in the preparatory work for the adoption of a regulation creating a european executive title in the very near future. i am pleased to note that we also agree with the idea that the monitoring procedure does not replace or harmonise national procedural law, but is an alternative and optional instrument, and that it is, moreover, exclusively applicable to pecuniary claims, regardless of whether they relate to contractual or non-contractual obligations, and regardless of their amount. i would also like to point out that we share the view that the establishment of separate rules on jurisdiction which differ from those of regulation (ec) no 44/2001 ('brussels i') is not justified and that we subscribe to the emphasis on adequate protection of the rights of the defence. the commission also agrees that the direct enforceability of judgments given in this process will be achieved through the future regulation creating a european enforcement order for uncontested debts. these shared convictions will be fully reflected in the next proposal for a regulation, although there are other matters on which parliament does not seem to be putting forward a definite proposal but maintains a more open approach: this is the case of the choice of a single-stage model based on testing or a two-stage model without testing. in any event, in order to create a truly uniform european process, the commission will have to take a decision and will, foreseeably, opt for a process which does not require the submission of written evidence. the commission would regret that, unlike other dossiers - such as the free legal aid directive - parliament did not support a broad scope, covering also national situations, and simply advocated a more restrictive approach. we would like to thank the committee on legal affairs and its rapporteur for their comments on the green paper on the future community instrument on small claims. we must also say that we intend to present in due course - by october this year - a proposal for a community instrument which has a broad application criterion, a proposal which will be preceded by a broad consultation of both the member states and all the interested parties. the aim of the new procedure is to simplify and speed up small claims litigation, and in this respect we envisage it to consist of two elements: the first of these will create a european small claims procedure and will be an optional tool which will be added to the existing possibilities in the various states; the second will abolish the intermediate measures - the 'exéquatur' - to allow recognition and enforcement in another state of decisions given in a european small claims procedure. i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs and its rapporteur for their support of the commission's initiative to convert the 1980 rome convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations into a community instrument to ensure its consistent interpretation and to speed up its entry into force in the new states. in drawing up the proposal for this instrument, we will not fail to take careful account of the very valuable comments in the report on various issues of a more technical nature and, as i have said, following the broad consultation process we have launched on the occasion of the green paper, it should be possible to adopt a proposal for a regulation in 2005.
(es) mr president, we are not in a legislative procedure but in a consultative procedure, a preliminary stage, and i would say that parliament is not acting as a legislative body but as a representative of european civil society, and there is probably no other institution that represents european civil society as faithfully as ours, since we are elected by the citizens. the commission's proposals are good ideas. we are at the green paper stage, we hope that the commission will present its proposals soon and, above all, i would like to welcome the fact that the commission is already accepting one of the main proposals contained in parliament's recommendations: to use the regulation, which is the most appropriate procedure for taking these rules forward. we cannot leave them to a directive, because that would give too much leeway to the national authorities and could lead to confusion in their application. secondly, i think there's a rather important idea in the gargani report: the idea of the importance of coding. this idea is reflected in the recent interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission: as far as possible, as we adopt legal rules, we must codify them, so that we do not find ourselves later with a series of regulations, directives, decisions, etc., which have no connection with each other. there is already a large body of collaborative rules in the field of private law, and ideally they should be codified, and one could even think of a kind of permanent codification, i.e. each new rule should be integrated with the others in order to achieve the greatest possible consistency in the legislative text. it is not the time to make recommendations to the commission on this subject, of course, but there is a possibility of doing so and we should therefore try to get it and try to get it done. in short, i believe that parliament and the commission are working well together in the initial phase; i believe that the proposals which the commission will make to this parliament from october onwards will be well received and we will be able to work for the benefit of the citizens so that community law is as harmonized and coherent as possible, for the benefit, as mr bartolozzi said earlier, of small businesses and ordinary citizens who expect more from the european union than just a mechanism for international diplomatic cooperation.
(es) mr president, commissioner, in view of the bitter experience of the prestige shipwreck, the executive committee is submitting to us a proposal to amend the regulation on the european maritime safety agency. we agree to extend the commission's powers so that it can provide support in the areas of marine pollution - accidental or deliberate - and civil protection, and systematic inspections of ship safety systems and port facilities. we also support the agency's participation in the procedures for the recognition of certificates of competence for maritime professions issued by third countries, to which i would add the power to approve devices to monitor compliance with marpol and other regulations, to prevent the remnants of oil tanks or oil bilges from being dumped at sea. in particular, we believe that the european agency should be provided with all the financial, human and material resources necessary to enable it to carry out these tasks with dignity. firstly, it must have a marine disaster plan covering all coasts from gibraltar to russia, which can be broken down as appropriate between the atlantic ocean, the mediterranean, the baltic, the north sea, etc., including plans for the treatment of waste resulting from fuel oil collection and cleaning operations. it should also have a sufficient fleet of rapid intervention vessels and specialized rescue vessels, with the capacity to pump and transfer fuel from any vessel in difficulty. and of course it should have qualified staff to check and verify the effectiveness of control procedures and the application of safety and pollution prevention standards in european ports and on vessels sailing in community waters, not just those that call at our shores. i thank mr mastorakis for his report and express our support for the commission's proposal, although we would have liked to go a little further.
(es) mr president, the sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the galician coast has revealed, among many other things, the lack of coordination between the member states in the fight against pollution. the commission is now proposing to amend the recently adopted regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency, set up in the wake of the erika disaster, so that it can provide support not only in the field of marine pollution but also in the field of protection against illegal acts. as far as pollution is concerned, the proposal seems to me a bit confusing. the agency shall have the means necessary to intervene, at the request of a member state and under its authority, with specialised vessels operating under chartering arrangements and which shall be made available to that member state, if so requested. it is not specified whether they are to be acquired, rented or chartered on a permanent or occasional basis. i would personally like to have a clarification on this matter, because in galicia, following the visit of the director of the agency, which took place in the midst of the prestige crisis, i read that one of the ships would have a permanent base in fisterra. the rapporteur's amendments specify that the primary responsibility for pollution lies with the coastal states, which must have their own resources - which some of us think is logical - and that the agency's actions will only be undertaken on request, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. but this principle cannot justify the passivity of the community. under the pretext that it is the responsibility of the member states and not of the union, we have seen how, during the prestige disaster, one of them, with a considerable maritime front, did not have, and still does not have, the minimum means to deal with an emergency. the commission cannot continue to ignore the need to establish community response mechanisms or european coordination of the resources of the different states to cover emergency situations and respond to disasters. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, the truth is that i usually have a lot of work to do. if i take account of the matters, directives and regulations over the years, i think i am right in saying that i am to blame. in any case, i think we all agree on the importance of what we are discussing today, which is the entry into force of the 2003 protocol to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage. the funds for compensation for the victims of the black tide will be increased by more than five times, which is absolutely necessary, because - as was clear from accidents such as the prestige and erika - the funds available through the international fund for pollution prevention were not sufficient. the protocol has yet to enter into force and we must therefore encourage the union states to ratify it as soon as possible. we are convinced of the urgency of implementation, but unfortunately the states are not yet ready to take the step. in its proposal, presented last september, the commission urged the states to conclude the protocol before the end of 2003, and we are now in 2004. the common position adopted on 15 december last set the deadline for june 2004 and the commission made a statement on this, stating that we would have preferred it to have been ratified before the end of last year. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for its diligence in this matter, given that the council sent the common position to parliament only a few weeks ago. i would, of course, like parliament to take the view expressed in the report by mr gil robles, whom i thank not only for the speed with which he has developed and coordinated the debate on this report with all the honourable members, but also for the clarity with which he explains all the extremes and the importance of this document.
the report by mr pimenta, which i am presenting to you, is a report which is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. as has just been explained, this convention created a fund to compensate victims of damage and it should be noted that this fund is financed by contributions from companies or other entities which receive hydrocarbons transported by sea. the increase in the maximum amount of compensation - as called for in this protocol, which was up to now eur 162 million - will therefore not affect public finances but those who benefit from the trade in hydrocarbons themselves. since 1978 it has been used in more than 100 cases and in most of them the limit was sufficient. however, the commissioner reminded us that the erika and prestige accidents had shown that this limit was already obsolete and that it needed to be increased. in march 2003, therefore, following the wave of emotion and concern unleashed by the latest of these disasters, the heads of state and government of the european union called for the fund to be increased to eur 1 billion, and in may of that year the decision was taken with commendable speed by the member states of the international maritime organisation. in its resolution of july 2003 - we are still in that year and with very short deadlines - on the reinforcement of maritime security following the sinking of the oil tanker prestige - report by mr sterckx - this parliament welcomed the decision of the world organisation and called on the member states to ratify the relevant protocol as soon as possible. it was the first of the calls for such rapid ratification. the commission, as we have been told, has acted not only with speed but with clear political commitment in asking the council to move from the phase - always very easy - of promising to the phase - always more difficult - of delivering. and finally, when the situation seemed to be quite compromised, he reached this agreement at the end of the italian presidency, which sets an objective date, whenever possible, which is what the commissioner has just explained to us. the truth is that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has unanimously approved the draft protocol. it would have been enough if it had simply given its assent, but i thought it was essential to stress the request in recital 8 of the decision that it is important that the member states sign or ratify the protocol. i have to say that all the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market were on the same page. why, mr president? because as long as those signatures and ratifications are not carried out, we will continue to be in the present situation, that is to say, with an insufficient fund to cover possible compensation. it is therefore urgent that the protocol should enter into force. and parliament has made it clear that any delay that occurs cannot be blamed or attributed to the community institutions. it is the member states which drag their feet on the road to ratification that will have to face up to their responsibility. i want to think that this case will not be given and that everyone will ratify it with the utmost diligence. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only the pleasant duty - as my time is running out - of thanking the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for the support they have given me; the services of the committee and the house for their invaluable help; and the commission for the political support it has constantly given. the report before us today is necessary and urgent. i therefore hope that you will vote in favour of it.
opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. (es) mr president, madam commissioner, in relation to this matter of the 2003 protocol supplementing the international oil pollution compensation fund of 1992, which is formally an intergovernmental organisation, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, which i represent as rapporteur, has expressed its opinion in favour of adopting the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the said protocol. this fipol 2003 protocol extends to 750 million special drawing rights - equivalent to some eur 930 million at current exchange rates - the maximum amount of the financial resources added up under the various international conventions, which are contributed by shipowners and companies receiving oil transported by sea, to compensate for environmental disasters and victims of accidental spills. however, a year after the prestige accident, it is still difficult to accurately assess the damage caused. a new report from the world wide fund for nature shows that 3,000 kilometers of coastline have been affected and estimates the damage at about 5 billion euros, which is 5 times the 2003 ippc protocol to deal with all the damage caused. we therefore continue to call for the creation of a european fund to complement all existing international funds, especially in view of the enormous oil traffic that occurs in our seas and the existence of areas such as the 'costa da morte' in galicia, which is one of the places where more maritime accidents have occurred in the past, in addition to other black spots such as the calais strait, etc. we also wish to express our dissatisfaction with the extension of the deadline for signing this protocol until the end of june 2004, agreed by the council and the states, instead of keeping it at its original date of last december. if there were another accident in the first half of the year, the coverage would be only about eur 250 million, which is very worrying. i congratulate mr gil robles on his report and i hope that the commission will go ahead with its proposal for a supplementary european fund, because it is necessary.
(es) mr president, i think that both the commissioner and the rapporteur, mr gil-robles, have expressed the substance of what this proposal is and mr ortuondo larrea has also referred to a number of facts on which i do not have to dwell. we are in a procedure of assent, that is to say, parliament has to approve it in order for the decision to be binding, and in this particular case parliament has set an example of speed, because the council's letter asking for assent is dated 8 january, so that tomorrow, 12 february, one month and five days later, parliament will give its assent. in this respect, i think the committee on legal affairs has been exemplary, because it has been in advance of the request, so that we had already appointed mr gil-robles in october so that when the council's proposal arrived we could quickly approve it. i think it is a good example of the implementation, almost avant la lettre, of an interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we are talking, for example, in the case of the prestige, of 5 000 million euros, we are talking only about one fifth of the amount needed to cover the damage, and that is why mr ortuondo insisted on the need for a complementary european fund. but i would like to refer to other more legal aspects. first, from the point of view of community law, the competence in this area does not lie with the member states but with the union as a whole. the arbitration formula is a clever formula: signature by the states in the interests of the community. we hope that the legal system can be changed so that the european community as such is an effective member to avoid situations like the present one, in which certain states, such as austria and luxembourg, will not be bound until 2005. and there is another rather peculiar situation: denmark is not bound by this decision and happens to be one of the states most exposed to this type of accident, because of the tremendous extent of its straits. i wonder if the danish people are aware that, as a result of this opt-out, the damage caused in denmark by such incidents will not be covered. i have the impression that, although the commission has acted with the greatest speed and efficiency, it would be appropriate for it to take further steps in this direction. it is not a convention signed by the states in the interests of the community, but a convention signed by the european union in the interests of the whole european union: the defence of national sovereignty does not benefit the citizens of the european union, which is what we are concerned about. that would be a fundamental lesson from this type of agreement. we cannot continue to operate with obsolete instruments from earlier times, when states acted in defence of the national interest, when we are faced with a collective interest, such as the preservation of the environment throughout the european union.
(es) mr president, the fipol protocol we are discussing today, which is intended to increase the financial means available to compensate victims of dumping, is another of those dossiers which i say to the commissioner de palacio have nothing to do with the prestige. it would be sarcastic to remind the victims of this catastrophe that, because we have not done our duty - europe as a whole - they will only be compensated for 15% of the damage suffered, because the fund allocated to this purpose has only 170 million euros and because, unfortunately, this increase we are discussing today is not retroactive. the erika accident - and we are talking about november 1999 - revealed the precariousness of the compensation system for this type of disaster, both at international and european level, where these mechanisms were simply not provided for. the imo had decided, long before the prestige went bankrupt, to increase the amount allocated by fipol to compensate victims to eur 600 million and the commissioner had proposed in 2000 the creation of a complementary european fund, cope, with a limit of eur 1 billion. the proposal was supported by the european parliament but rejected by the council, which opted for negotiations in the imo. and although the imo finally set up the new fund, and even brought it close to the magic number of the famous billion, this amount can never guarantee compensation, neither complete nor rapid, for the victims of future oil spills, and this for two reasons. the first was mentioned by mr ortuondo larrea: more than a year after the disaster we are still far from being able to assess its full impact, not only because the ship, with at least 15 000 tonnes, is still at the bottom of the atlantic at a depth of 3 000 metres, but also because the fuel is still arriving on our shores. secondly, that the reports, which are becoming more and more independent and more numerous, should put the damage caused at no less than five billion euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. putting a limit on the damage is not rational and, above all, sends a wrong signal to potential polluters. given that only sovereign states - as has been said here - can be parties to the protocol, the commission proposes to ask the member states to sign or ratify it - in the kind words of mr gil-robles gil-delgado, whom i congratulate for his work as rapporteur - as soon as possible and, if possible, before july 2004. perhaps, mr gil-robles gil-delgado, we will have to kneel down because, since last may, only two states have ratified it and a minimum of eight ratifications are needed for it to enter into force. i also think that it will be necessary to develop the conventions to widen the circle of those responsible, which should cover - as we have said many times - all the operators in the transport chain.
(es) madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on afghanistan, which was on the front page of the media in the autumn of 2001. the taliban regime was defeated at that time, but this led to a full-scale civil war and, as a result, to exile, displacement and a series of destruction of the country's structures. what is the situation today? a country that needs not only political and social reconstruction, but also economic reconstruction. i would like to recall the report by the european union's special representative for afghanistan, mr francesc vendrell, to the committee on foreign affairs about a year ago. he had experience as a un delegate in afghanistan and explained to us the lack of security that existed in most of the territory. today, afghanistan has a very serious problem as it is the drug business. trade is estimated, as commissioner patten has said, at two and a half million dollars a year, which corresponds to about half of afghanistan's gross domestic product. there is talk of 70 000 to 80 000 hectares of cultivation by the lords who control the territory, a cultivation which is not limited to raw production, since there are also 'refining' plants in order to be able to export the drug directly. according to the report of the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc), two thirds of the world's heroin production is produced in afghanistan. this, of course, leads to serious problems in the country and in this respect i believe that the european union and the international community must continue to support this consumption, which, as the commissioner has said, is the other side of the insecurity that exists.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the new impetus for eu action in cooperation with the mediterranean partners in the field of human rights and democratisation.
(es) mr president, we have welcomed and supported the commission's communication on a new impetus for the process of democratization and respect for human rights in the southern and eastern mediterranean. because we are convinced that the considerable, enormous challenge of the development of these neighbouring regions will only be possible, from the point of view of european responsibilities, if we combine responsibility and management, that is to say, a good development of the association agreements with a strong political and cultural impulse, in a context in which the voices and images of misery, fanaticism and terrorism tend to prevail, more and more, against the objectives of a sensible development towards freedom and towards social cohesion and peace. that is why we support this initiative and hope that the general policy of the european union on human rights will not fall into the extremes of turning a blind eye to a false political reality or merely denouncing or protesting. we must be consequentialist in our policies towards the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean, that is to say, we must always give priority to considering the consequences of our policies in this respect. as the commissioner has rightly said, there is a strategy which will soon be ten years old - the barcelona process strategy - and all we have to do is to remember that, as barcelona is an olympic city, the olympic motto 'citius, altius, fortius' should be on the porch of the commission's offices for the development of our euro-mediterranean policy.
mr president, the so-called barcelona process has, of course, the full sympathy of men and women of good will. the capital of the catalan nation was well-deserved to be the birthplace of a policy of building bridges across the mediterranean. i can only mention here in passing the memory of two illustrious catalans who anticipated this policy in their own way in the middle ages: raymond lulle and anselme turmeda. i welcome the effort of intelligence and understanding in this policy, and particularly in the documents under discussion. however, i wonder what the chances are of this policy, given the general situation. to spread the good word about democracy and human rights, one would have to be an example. we're a long way from that. just yesterday, the lawyers of the good city of strasbourg laid a funeral wreath in front of the prefecture, lamenting the death of the presumption of innocence as a result of a law that has just been passed in france. a year ago, a spanish judge ordered the closure of egunkaria, the only basque-language daily, and threw several journalists in jail - some are still there. to this day, a year later, no contradictory debate has been organized to justify this blatant violation of press freedom. the criminal war waged by the united states against iraq has been supported, actively or passively, by a majority of the member states of the enlarged union. this horrible wound is still bleeding, and it will bleed for a long time. for many muslims around the world, it is an additional humiliation. unfortunately, this list is far from exhaustive. if left unchecked, the obsession with security and the diversion of counter-terrorism to partisan ends will undermine this policy, as well as many others, despite all the intelligence and goodwill of those who will try to implement it.
commission. i do not want to delay the house unduly as it quietly prepares to go about its democratic duty. however, i should like to respond to one or two questions from what has been an important and useful debate. i was asked how our proposals had been received by our partners. the fairest diplomatic answer is that the ideas have been received rather cautiously in some countries but much more positively in others – jordan and morocco spring to mind. whatever the response, the ideas that we have put forward are now a central part of the debate, a central part of the dialogue with these countries. it is important to remember that what we are talking about is not negative conditionality, but positive encouragement. we are talking about setting aside part of our meda funds each year and allocating them to those countries which enter into specific partnerships with us to develop democracy and human rights. that is an important shift of emphasis and an important way of trying to use our development assistance and cooperation to promote political objectives which we all know are crucial, not only to the stability and wellbeing of societies, but also to their long-term economic development. in pressing our views on issues such as human rights in tunisia – to which the honourable member rightly referred – we have to be vigorous and avoid being counterproductive. a couple of weeks ago in another part of the world – when pressing the case for the rule of law and civil liberty – i was accused of being neo-colonial. i had to point out that as far as i was concerned that was a terrible insult: i had been the real thing; i had been a real colonial oppressor and not simply a neo-colonial has-been. (laughter)we have to be careful about how we proceed with the debate. it is also important to recognise that it is a long process and that, as mrs bonino said, we need to be consistent. we need to show that we mean what we say. we have to be mindful of our credibility and we have to make sure that this is a debate we conduct on the basis of mutual esteem, on the basis that we are on an equal footing. i was also asked how our arguments and ideas tied in with those of the united states on democracy and the wider middle east. it is fair to say that this is a subject about which we have a decade of experience. we welcome the united states' interest. i am sure there will be a lot of discussions, as there were last weekend at the munich security conference. i hope that we do not lose the distinctiveness of our own approach. i hope that we do not lose sight of the fact that this is a long-term process and i hope that, as the honourable member said late in the debate, that we do not lose sight of the relevance of the middle east dispute, of the relationship between israel and palestine, to the discussion about democracy in the wider region, because at the moment undoubtedly some in the arab world doubt our credentials and goodwill because they do not think we are doing enough to resolve the problems of palestine. lastly i would like to repeat again to mr mcmillan-scott that we go into these debates with an open mind. we recognise the experience and the wisdom of parliament and we are sure that together parliament, commission and council will be able to frame a policy which will not only continue to command the attention of the whole house, but will actually lead to the sort of beneficial consequences that we wish to see. (applause)
- thank you, mr patten, for your contribution and your efforts in an atmosphere which has not always been so easy. i have received motion for a resolution b5-0049/2004 tabled pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday.
- the meeting is resumed. the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. if no one objects, i will consider it approved.
- we take your comments on the minutes into account. (the minutes were approved)
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0012/2004) by mr herzog, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, to the commission on the commission's strategy for universal service.
- thank you very much, mr herzog. this meeting is closed.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0010/2004) by mr perry, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to the commission on the implementation of directive 73/239/eec in the united kingdom between 1978 and 2001.
commission. mr president, may i say straight away that while i recognise that there is some disagreement between the commission and the honourable member on this enormously important matter, we recognise the exemplary diligence with which he has pursued an issue of considerable importance to so many people. he has pursued the case with great conscientiousness and i am sure he has and should enjoy the gratitude of a large number of lloyd's names. let me say a few words on the background to this very complex issue. as the house knows, following several petitions to the european parliament complaining about the united kingdom regulation and the supervision of the lloyd's market and a number of individual complaints, the commission decided to open infringement proceedings against the united kingdom in december 2001. as a result of these proceedings, the united kingdom changed the legal framework for the supervision and regulation of lloyd's, which is now governed by the financial services and markets act 2000. after issuing a supplementary letter of formal notice in january 2003, whose purpose was to clarify the concrete functioning of the new regime, the commission concluded in october 2003 that all aspects of the lloyd's regime under examination now comply with the requirements of the relevant european union insurance directives. more specifically, in a press release issued on 15 october 2003, the commission confirmed the compatibility of the regulatory and supervisory regime for lloyd's, as established under the financial service and markets act, with the requirements of articles 8(1)(e), 13(2) and (3), 15(1), 16(1), 19(1) and 19(2) of directive 73/239/eec, as amended. as regards the regime applicable to lloyd's prior to the entry into force of the financial services and markets act, the commission has consistently maintained, in full accordance with ecj case law, that the objective of infringement proceedings under european union law is to establish or restore the compatibility of existing national law with european union law and not to rule on the possible past incompatibility of national law, which has been in the meantime brought into compliance with european law. i think my honourable friend would accept that the ombudsman agrees with the legal interpretation that i have set out and that we have set out in the past. to borrow from my honourable friend's anecdote about the examination question at a university with which i am familiar, i would only ask whether this is a proper answer and would say that it is a proper answer if you want an answer that is in compliance with the relevant case law. in its resolution of 25 september 2003, parliament called for access to the commission's file under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 – that is under the general public access provisions – and for a commission statement on the compatibility of lloyd's regulation and supervision in the period 1978 to 2001 – that is before the implementation of the 2000 act. since the infringement proceedings had in the meantime been closed, the college of commissioners mandated my colleague and friend, commissioner bolkestein, to forward the relevant documents to president cox, and this was done by letter dated 15 december 2003. as regards the assessment of the uk's former regime, the commission's views are detailed in the first letter of formal notice, sent in december 2001, which is part of the file forwarded to parliament. following the uk government's reply which indicated the entry into force of the 2000 act in december 2001, the commission's inquiry dealt exclusively with the new united kingdom regime. therefore, since the regime, which was applicable between 1978 and 2001, no longer applies, the commission sees no scope for further action. let me repeat that i recognise the dedication with which my honourable friend has pursued this matter and i am sorry that, for the reasons which i have adduced, i am not able to give him on this occasion a reply which will, i suspect, satisfy him wholly or in part.
(es) mr president, i have known mr perry for some time in this parliament - and i believe he is one of my best friends - and i have really followed with considerable interest the subject he raised in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. but after examining the file, i have no choice but to agree with what mr patten has just said. in other words, in the infringement procedure, the commission is not the court of justice but an agent of community law which seeks to ensure that community law is applied by requiring the state to comply with community rules. and in this case, i believe that the commission has done so - albeit perhaps belatedly. the result of an infringement procedure, once the state in question has complied with community law, is the closure of the file, because - as mr patten has also said - there is a reiterated case law of the court of justice of the european communities that the infringement action is without purpose when the state in question has complied with community law. i think mr perry has a laudable interest in the functioning of the community institutions and it would certainly be desirable for us all to do the same with the set of directives which are not transposed by the national states. what is not working here is a mechanism of rewards and penalties on the part of the commission. the commission does not have that power. only the courts of justice could have them and i would refer mr perry specifically to british law. continental administrative law allows a state to be held liable for failure to fulfil its obligations, including, for example, failure to transpose a community directive in time. but i have the impression that the procedure being tried here is going nowhere, because i do not see how the commission can ever invoke the failure of a state to comply with a community directive in the past to hold it to account. from a legal point of view, there is no such mechanism. in other words, while mr perry is probably quite right in his concern about compliance with community legislation and while he acknowledges that damage to individuals is likely to have occurred, the legal procedure is not one of a reiteration of the commission's action - which has already fulfilled its obligations - but, if anything, the appeal through the british internal administrative procedure if, in accordance with british law, individuals have been harmed by the failure to transpose a directive into community law in time. i therefore believe that the commission has now fulfilled its obligations perfectly and that we in the european parliament cannot ask it to do otherwise.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- b5-0080/2004 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the elections in iran; - b5-0083/2004 by mr collins, on behalf of the uen group, on the parliamentary elections in iran; - b5-0084/2004 by mr marset campos and mr seppänen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the elections in iran; - b5-0088/2004 by mr barón crespo, mr karamanou, mr sakellariou, mr swoboda and mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on the political situation in iran before the parliamentary elections on 20 february 2004; - b5-0094/2004 by mr gahler, mr oostlander, mr posselt, mr sacrédeus and mr suominen, on behalf of the ppe/de group, on the parliamentary elections in iran; - b5-0098/2004 by mr boumediene-thiery, mr cohn-bendit, mr frassoni, mr gahler, mr isrton, mr maes, mr wyn, mr béjori and mr wu verts/d, on behalf of the belgian group, on the elections in iran; - b5-0099/2004 by mr belder, on behalf of the bale group, on the elections in iran;
(es) mr president, we regret that the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission himself, mr prodi, are unable to be here to accompany the presentation made by the first vice-president and the commissioner for budgets. i think it is an important occasion and we cannot imagine what political compromise is keeping you out of this house today. in any case, i would like to congratulate the two commissioners on their presentation. we understand the reasons for this delay, but i want the commission to understand the problems this delay is causing parliament, because this is the first time that parliament is going to have a budgetary year based on the evaluation report drawn up on its annual political strategy document. that is why i ask you - and i want you to confirm this - if you can keep to the timetable which the commissioner for budgets has just explained. we cannot accept any further delay. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the main issue is the safeguarding of our parliamentary rights, the duration of the financial perspective - on which this parliament has already spoken - and the priorities we are going to have. we want to be absolutely clear about the political priorities of what we are going to finance before we fix the ceilings. as regards the new enlargements, commissioner, you know that the position of this parliament is that we must first ensure the union's capacity to absorb new members institutionally and financially. and as for the categories, you are fully aware that we will support them, as we have done on other occasions, in the question of new posts, whenever we enter into a rational dynamic, but, in any case, we will need a further definition. finally, as regards category 4 funding, commissioner, you should address yourself primarily to the council and, in particular, to the signatories of the 'one percent charter'.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the almost ritual meeting to discuss the state of play of the lisbon strategy in the run-up to the spring summit. it is worth recalling our principles, which are those of a renewed european social model, based on shared and common values, with an economic strategy of solidarity and sustainable development, but this catalogue of good intentions must be put into practice, because i believe that in all our languages there is a common aphorism, namely that 'hell is paved with good intentions', and it is not enough to proclaim and repeat them every year, but as we have seen today, especially by the commission, a critical analysis of how the lisbon strategy is developing is necessary. i would like to refer to some of the issues which are of particular concern to us in an election year. it is all right to talk about the internal market and financial services, but we must not forget that we have to overcome the blockade on the taxation of capital income and on unacceptable monopoly situations. it is good that we are talking about the development of services, but we also have to respond to the concerns about increasing offshoring and the need for an industrial strategy in europe and therefore we have to be able to develop together our line of implementation of the lisbon agenda. and if you will allow me, mr president, to refer to current events: the first is that we have thought in our group and in parliament - i believe it is a majority line which was expressed in our attitude to the convention - that the entry into force of economic and monetary union required a strengthening of economic governance. the commissioner has referred to this point. one of the many meetings of our leaders - this one has had the most media coverage - has been held in berlin and it has been proposed that there should be a 'superminister' of economics in the commission. well, this is an important issue. it implies that the community method is accepted as the one to be applied, which is absolutely fundamental. the council has also accepted what the governments opposed at the convention, and now there is a change of opinion in the view that economic union must be strengthened. well, that can be translated into a rectification approach; rectification is wise and the draft constitution should be amended in this regard. i think that parliament would have no difficulty in supporting this line clearly, because it makes no sense that we are talking about a foreign minister and we do not have a minister for the economy. i think that commissioner solbes will have no difficulty in supporting this proposal, even defending it before the commission. and then there is another important aspect: when we talk about reforms, we should not only talk about the dismantling of social progress and the welfare state. the irish model, the dutch model, the danish model and the swedish model demonstrate that it is possible to have a high degree of competitiveness, an efficient economy and at the same time a high level of protection. the road to reform must therefore follow these models, and it is not incompatible to reform while maintaining the principles that have made europe strong. and then, mr president, there is another important point, to which the commission has referred a little too often, and that is the concretization of the next financial perspective, the debate on which it is also the responsibility of the irish presidency to initiate. and this is a very important point, because we also find that, at that berlin summit after a letter was written, it is said that we want to do a lot more things - lisbon strategy, enlargement and so on - with a lot less, which is really a matter of faith. it would be a miracle and would not meet the principles of the most sensible economy. the commission, in accordance with its responsibility, has put forward a proposal which commissioner barnier has presented to parliament - perhaps too restrictive, 1.24% of gross domestic product - and we think that is the least that can be said. we cannot criticise the lack of investment in basic research - and i say this when in my country, or in france or in other countries of the european union, researchers are demonstrating, not just workers but researchers - we cannot say that more research is needed and then reduce the possibilities absolutely. (applause) that is why the plan proposed by the commissioner and drawn up by commissioner busquin must have our full support. and finally, mr president, there are three more points i would like to mention. the first is that we continue to trust the irish presidency and hope that it will be able to make a serious proposal in march to move forward on the constitution; that we believe that we must support the agreement reached in cyprus, we believe that it is very important for the future of the union; and finally, mr president, also today, when we have the visit of the iranian nobel prize winner in the european parliament, to maintain our position of support for democracy in iran and of criticism of the development of the elections in that country. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, i too would like to refer first of all to the aspects of research and development as a driver for value creation in companies. i would like to open a debate on what mr lange has said, as mr linkohr has done, but that is not possible. i believe that research and development in clean technologies, for example, will be a very clear source of employment and investment in europe if we decide on them, once and for all, with greater determination and conviction. at the moment, one of the most important challenges facing the international community, and where there are very heated discussions between the industry and the administration, is the issue of compliance with the kyoto protocol and the objectives of this protocol. i believe that one of the solutions lies precisely in the widespread introduction of cleaner technologies that can address the reduction of polluting emissions. if we do not invest in this, we will hardly achieve the competitive and dynamic europe we all want. finally, i would also like to refer, in connection with the above, to the absolute need to promote much more actively this efficient use of natural resources, simply because the disconnection between economic growth and increased use of resources is an indispensable condition for the continuation of sustainable growth and, in short, the reality of that europe of knowledge, world leader in competitiveness and full employment, which we all want.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, when there are those who question the constitution which extends the powers of this parliament to adopt legislative procedures by codecision, this is not the most opportune moment to forget the power of this parliament to adopt with the council such a vital issue as the transeuropean transport networks. i therefore call on my group, the greens/european free alliance, to bring this very important matter to the attention of parliament. in any case, as a member of parliament, i would like to mention today the high-speed rail projects which concern galicia, portugal, the north-east of the peninsula and aquitaine itself, in other words a key part of the union's atlantic railway network. i am referring to the projects porto-vigo-ferrol, santiago de compostela-coruna-vigo-orense-valladolid-aquitaine and ferrol-bilbao. all of them are included in the plans drawn up by the portuguese and spanish governments, in this case the galicia plan. we want this project to be implemented and to be approved by codecision, as it should be.
(es) mr president, i agree with the idea of promoting a european growth initiative. however, i cannot accept the restrictive meaning given to the so-called quick start list. a list of priority projects already exists, endorsed by the essen and dublin european councils, and the commission has proposed a second enlargement. i believe that all these priority projects should have the same opportunities for access to community aid. the challenge should not be to reduce the number of projects, but to get them started as soon as possible. i am sure that it would be more effective to grant a premium, a financial bonus, to projects or sections of projects for which the certificates of work completed are submitted in the next three years, for example, rather than reducing the list of projects a priori on the basis of their start-up or completion expectations. high-speed railway sections, such as the vitoria-dax, could be largely completed by 2006 and are not included in the quick start list. i also believe that the so-called 'highways of the sea' should be regarded as cross-border projects if they link ports in two member states.
in writing. (es) mr president, i would like to stress the need to give a decisive boost to priority transeuropean network projects, which are fundamental to the economic development of the eu. unfortunately, vital eu projects such as the construction of a high-capacity freight train across the central pyrenees - which has received the support of the rett committee of this parliament - are lacking the strong support of the member states, in this particular case the french state. the member states must be aware of the need to implement these projects as soon as possible to avoid the expected collapses in the transport of goods within the eu. the call for action from parliament must be heard and the eu must facilitate the work of the member states and continue to push for its implementation.
council. mr president, i particularly want to thank mrs prets for the question. the european council of december 2003 expressed its support for the idea of an olympic truce and welcomed the relevant resolution which was agreed unanimously by the united nations general assembly. it is in fact no coincidence that 2004 is both the year of the olympics and the european year of education through sport. the council recalls to the parliament that the educational values of sport were already acknowledged by the nice european council in december 2000, thus confirming previous declarations, particularly declaration 29 attached to the amsterdam treaty. this defines sport as something which forges the identity of people. the council's resolution of 17 december 1999 also presented sporting activities as having a pedagogical value which contributes to the strengthening of civil society. one of the aims of the european year of education through sport, as set out in the european parliament and council decision of february 2003, is to take advantage of the values conveyed through sport to develop knowledge and skill, particularly amongst young people. sport allows young people in particular not only to develop physical prowess and readiness for physical effort, but also provides social skills such as team work, solidarity, tolerance and, of course, fair play. the council confirms its commitment to these aims and values, as, i am sure, does the parliament. i should point out that it does not come within the council's competence to undertake the specific actions proposed by the honourable member. however, at its meeting of 29 january 2004 to launch the european year of education through sport, the troika of education and sports ministers stressed the importance of the olympic truce. the ministers supported the truce for its message of peace, tolerance and friendship; its unique place in the lives of citizens and its positive role in the promotion of friendship and the breaking down of social and cultural barriers. the troika ministers also strongly recommended that joint actions bring together the goals of the european year of education through sport and those of the olympic truce during 2004. on a personal level, on behalf of the presidency, like to wish the greek nation, and all the athletes who go to greece to compete, peaceful and successful olympic games. i hope that these games, as mrs prets has said, take place in an atmosphere of tolerance and peace.
(es) mr president, sport is not just about performance, about competitions and about elite athletes; it is also about developing a sense of community and a common purpose; it is about humanity. ladies and gentlemen, these are not my words. these are the words of the united nations organization, the un. i fully support them, and i fully support the fact that this parliament is supporting the olympic truce. what i do think is very important is that sport is not politicized. sport must be kept as far as possible out of politics and must serve as a tool for building up and never for destroying. let sport be a tool for promoting peace and understanding. as for the olympic truce, we're not talking about anything new. there have been olympic truces every two years for the summer and winter olympic games for many years now, and at the end of last year the united nations adopted a resolution urging its member states to observe the olympic truce. i'm all for it. and so is the group of the european people's party. but we want it to be a contribution from the world of sport to the rest of the world. we don't want any political party to try to make electoral gains or try to politicize this issue. ladies and gentlemen, in the real world there are conflicts and there are wars. in the world of sports, there are games and there are competitions. in the real world, there are armed forces. in the world of sports, there are teams. in the real world, there are laws. in the world of sports, we trade it for the rules of the game. in the real world, there are neutral parties. in the world of sports, we have referees. and in the real world, unfortunately, there are a lot of deaths, and we want to help preserve life through the world of sport, and this has to be the contribution that the world of sport makes to society.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- the next item is the report (a5-0062/2004) by mr kuckelkorn, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2005 budgetary procedure for sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii (a) and viii (b) and the preliminary draft estimates of the european parliament's budget (section i) (2004/2002 (bud)).
(es) mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kuckelkorn, who is known for his rigor, as we know from those of us who have worked with him in the committee on economic affairs and in the committee on budgets itself, particularly in the negotiations on the european agencies a long time ago. we are at a time when the usual calls for budgetary discipline and savings are more necessary and more realistic than ever, because there is now a reduction in the ceiling on heading 5 and at this moment i would be hard pressed to find a rapporteur who has a better reputation for being rigorous in making these cuts than mr kuckelkorn. i am also very curious to know what the report of the secretaries-general of the institutions will be on the estimates of administrative needs for 2005. i think it will be a very fortunate and very beneficial exercise for all of us, since the secretaries of the various institutions will have to reconcile the fact of enlargement and its administrative needs with the restriction that the reduction of 140 million euro in heading 5 will impose on us next year. the same rigor required of the other institutions must apply to the commission and the european parliament itself. our group, mr rapporteur, believes that it is perfectly possible to maintain the 20% ceiling for the european parliament's budget next year, especially after the council, in the face of opposition, particularly from the german government, has blocked the reform of the statute for members. our group has tabled and defended amendments in the committee on budgets, particularly on the subject of multilingualism and its visualisation. we tried this in the 2004 budget and we would be very happy to meet now with a partner who is open to discussing the possible initiatives that our group is presenting. the report, which has been voted on by the committee on budgets, supports it. we agree with the rest of the measures in mr kuckelkorn's report and we are left with the question of the financing of political parties. my group would have liked - and we were one vote away from getting it in the committee on budgets - that the committee on budgets should have voted in favour of including this funding of european political parties within the 20% limit of parliament. what we did not want with this amendment that we tabled was to have to negotiate year after year the financing of political parties, as would happen if we were financing them outside the 20% limit. financing them within the 20% ceiling would avoid this situation and ensure a swift transfer. the code of conduct necessary for this transfer to the political parties is expected to be completed in the near future. however, in the face of opposition from other political groups, and particularly from you, mr kuckelkorn, this has not been possible and therefore the compromise solution proposed by the green/efa amendment seems acceptable to us as the only way to avoid jeopardising this transfer which should be made in 2004, in this budgetary year. moreover, with this compromise, with this green amendment, we would avoid the budgetary restriction in heading 5 endangering the functioning of the political parties throughout next september, as they themselves warn, which may encounter serious problems of functioning from an administrative point of view if this transfer is not carried out. i am glad that mr kuckelkorn is prepared to take this commitment into account - to vote on this amendment - and if that is the case, mr president, i believe that the rest of the vote on mr kuckelkorn's report will be virtually unanimous because on the other major issues we fully share his philosophy.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0081/2004) by mr grüner, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the commission communication to the council: follow-up to the white paper 'a new lease on life for european youth' - proposal for common objectives for the involvement and information of young people under the council resolution of 27 june 2002 on the framework for european cooperation in the youth field (com (2003) 184 - c5-0404/2003 - 2003/2127 (ini)).
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 february the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport unanimously adopted the owninitiative report by mrs gröner. the committee on culture was right to adopt this report unanimously, because it is a good piece of work. it is the work of someone who knows young people, who loves young people and who would like young people to be involved much more than they are today in this europe we are building. the foundations of the europe we are building for and with young people were laid in the famous white paper, which proposed common objectives for the two priorities of youth participation and information. in fact, it was the young people themselves who had identified these two priorities as key elements of future policy to be pursued at both the european union, member state and regional levels. i welcome the european parliament's support for proposals to make the participation of young people at all levels of democratic life and the development of accessible, relevant and quality information a reality. these proposals, as mrs gröner said, are part of a broader approach, which aims both at developing specific actions for youth policies and at better taking account of the interests of young people in other policies. in this sense, we are preparing proposals for lines of action for voluntary activities which, as you very rightly say, are one of the preferred ways for young people to get involved and assume their civic responsibilities. i personally believe that setting up a genuine european voluntary service, with a critical mass and therefore visibility, will give new impetus to our youth policies. but of course, to get there, we also need new funding, because young people are not rich. we must help them to put their idealism into practice. the new financial perspective is therefore the ideal framework for answering our questions. i have also made proposals for a future youth programme, financed in such a way that it can reach the critical size. this political communication which i am preparing should be submitted to the european parliament in its present composition, if all goes well. i believe, mr president, that the parliamentary initiatives which have been launched in favour of young people and with young people offer a very good answer to what is very often said on the ground. on the ground, there is a lot of talk about europe not doing enough with youth policy. well, i would like many young people, many youth policy makers to read the own-initiative report by mrs gröner and the european parliament to see that this is not true.
(es) mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would first like to say on behalf of the alternative rapporteur - our colleague mrs zissener - that our group, the group of the european people's party, is in favour of this report, provided that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. i think that the participation and information of young people is a matter of the utmost importance and i have always said, since i started in this parliament, that it is the young people who are important, not those who are not so young anymore, because they are the future of europe and it is in them that we have to invest and put all our efforts into it. i tend to have a lot of contact with young people and i think that, really, they are much more receptive than adults or older people. we have to take advantage of this situation. according to the new eurobarometer survey for the next european parliament elections, only an average of 30% of the population is expected to vote. that is a number which i find ridiculously low and we must make a great effort to increase it. it is not worth saying that we are all very concerned here, we really have to prove it with facts. and it's obvious that we're doing something wrong. i will tell you an anecdote, ladies and gentlemen, an anecdote from a situation i experienced, without going any further, this very afternoon. you all know very well that 2004 is the european year of education through sport and this, although it is addressed to all european citizens, is addressed in particular to young people. however, this afternoon i went to see a group of young spanish students who had come from the south of spain, from andalusia, from my homeland, and in the brief conversation i had with them i ended up asking them if any of them could tell me what european year 2004 was. and none of them - of the 30 or so young people in the room - has been able to answer me. when i told them that, they were pretty puzzled because everyone thought it was something that was pretty directed at them. and this is a demonstration that maybe there's something we're doing wrong and we need to correct it as soon as possible. this requires greater cooperation between youth organisations and public authorities. we have to work hard to achieve this and i think that this report by mrs gröner is the first step towards getting more information to young europeans.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
- the next item is the report (a5-0080/2004) by graça moura, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on broader access to culture: the role of schools and education (2002/2268 (ini)).
(es) mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr graça moura, for all the work he has done on this report. it seems to me that it is a matter of vital importance to facilitate access to culture for a greater number of citizens. and schools, not in vain, have a very important role to play in this regard, although i must also say that i fully agree with the commissioner that this is not just the responsibility of schools. it's also the responsibility of the families. and it is essential that children have the opportunity to learn about their surroundings, both at local and regional level, at national and european level. and this is where we have to step in much more and we have to play a bigger role. in spain we often get the impression that children do not know the culture at national level, so at european level it is better not to speak at all. we all know that it is important for children to feel identified with their city, their people, their region and their country, but also - and i do not in any way disregard what has been said above - to feel identified as europeans, and this is one of the objectives for which we, from here, must fight, and it is difficult to feel european if we do not know europe, and to know europe is to know it from the point of view of its history, its geography, its economy, its literature, its philosophy, even its sports. it would be very positive if all this could be a common subject in all schools in all member states, and if student exchanges could also be promoted more so that what they learn they can learn on the spot. in my country, they say a picture is worth a thousand words. finally, i would like to say that it is essential that the educational services of museums, theatres, libraries, etc., which are available to the public, are available in more than one official language of the european union. and possibly in several, so that we can all feel identified with what we are going to read. of course, all this we are talking about here tonight cannot be done without a community budget to do it, and this is going to be our first big battle and we have to fight for it.
(es) mr president, i must congratulate mr graça moura because this document is the result of a common conviction, of a professional career dedicated to culture. i think it is courageous and worthwhile to advocate a common approach to schooling at a time when nationalist discourses are gaining strength. i say that it is worthy of praise because, at the heart of this document, which appears to be light, we are witnessing the absolute defence of the universality of knowledge and learning. there is even a certain resistance to the over-interpretation of subsidiarity. it is argued that education for an integral europe is not simply a matter of the euro or other common economic aspects, but must be the result of a feeling of belonging, of a common project which must be based on history, on knowing who we are, what our common bases are and, above all, where the principles and values of our time lie and what the logic of the united europe we are moving towards is. i believe that the european system has developed in an unbalanced way. common policies have been strengthened day by day, but progress has been slow in creating a pool of knowledge. the nationalist - i repeat - approach to the administration of knowledge and education, based on a village-based, selfish interpretation, has increased the apprehension of the need to formulate common information, which could be shared by all european educational establishments. i have proposed an amendment calling for an active policy to promote the enhancement of the common cultural heritage. an active and lively policy, helping the weakest, creating common criteria. and to the same extent, i have asked for information posters in museums in more than one language of the union, in several languages of the union. contemplating the posters of our own city and in our own language seems to me a concept that must be overcome. and i have proposed an amendment calling on the commission and the member states to encourage research projects on the main lines of european civilization, such as common law, the history of institutions, education, ways of living together and common rules, social and anthropological practices, and artistic manifestations. i think, i say and i advocate that if we study the history of our civilization and culture or our institutions, we can reconstruct substrates that existed, exist and bind us. in other words, we are the result of a constant exchange of ideas, of models of life, of solutions and of concepts which allow us to say that europe has been preparing for centuries to be europe. europe has worked hard to have a common heritage. that is why it has been so easy to build europe. the concept of municipal life, the concept of human dignity, individual rights, individual freedom, the family as the first social nucleus and the municipalities as the wider framework of rights and coexistence, solidarity, the concept of the state - all these are european concepts, as is the concept of secularism. moreover, the very differences which constitute so-called cultural diversity reveal the richness of interpretation and ways of living out a common background. we give the young people the opportunity to know everything.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0017/2004) by mr frahm, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on persistent organic pollutants and amending directive 79/117/eec and directive 96/59/ec (com (2003) 333 - c5-0273/2003 - 2003/0119 (cod)).
(es) mr president, i should like to begin by referring to the legal basis of this report and the debate it has generated. i think that, frankly, it would not be the best way to go about confronting the interests of the internal market and those of the protection of the environment or the health of citizens. i think it is a serious mistake and i personally believe the opposite. i think that we must practice the integrated and complementary approach, i think that we must really take into account when we talk about the environment also the interests of the internal market and the possible difficulties that this may entail and i think that when we talk about the internal market we must take into account environmental interests. that is sustainable development, that is the integration of the environment, the economy and employment and that is precisely what has been advocated in the proposal for the topics to be discussed at the next council in the spring of this year. in my view, if we do not really believe in these three pillars of sustainable development in an integrated way, together, and at the same level and with the same weight in the considerations we make, we are making political statements for our summits and our communication as community institutions, which are totally wrong and false to the citizens. and honestly, i don't believe in that. i believe in this integrated approach and therefore i am much less concerned with the legal basis of the reports than i am with the actual content of the reports and the way in which cooperation between the various committees and community institutions is carried out. in this connection, and with regard to this report, i would like to say that during the italian presidency very considerable progress was made on this regulation and it was even envisaged that a general guideline on it would be drawn up. it was not approved because there was a major problem with regard to the waste from the cop and especially the alternative methods for its destruction. i believe that this issue has been settled in the new annex iva and that it has been the result of negotiation during the irish presidency. in this respect i think that mrs frahm should be congratulated because she has done an excellent job in this respect of reaching a consensus, firstly among the political groups in parliament and secondly also with the council so that we can adopt this report at first reading. so even if i do not entirely agree with her in making environmental aspects prevail over all others, but in achieving that balance, which is really what we are advocating from the european union and from the member states, i do think this is a good job, i do think she has had difficulties in reaching agreements on issues such as waste or the specific exemption for the manufacture of dicofol, a substance accepted under very specific restrictions, in a very specific industrial process and which is carried out in a way that is absolutely isolated from the environment and confined. i also think that the review clause for the commission to review this particular situation with dicofol at the end of 2008 is a good one and i believe that what is being done is to apply the precautionary principle once again in a reasonable way, making industrial activity really compatible with the utmost protection of the environment and the safety of citizens. as regards annex ii, which lists substances that can be used subject to restrictions, i think it was a good thing to keep the structure of this annex - i know the rapporteur was not a supporter - but i think that, although it does not list any specific substances at the moment, it does leave the door open to future substances that may emerge and that, with the approval of both the commission and parliament, consider it necessary to use, produce or market with certain restrictions. as regards lindane, i think it is very good that it has been moved to annex i as a prohibited substance and that its use can be permitted under certain conditions, also very strict, which the agreement proposes. i think that we should emphasize what i said earlier: compatibility is important and it is important that we never lose the reference point for sustainable development as that stool with three legs: economy, environment and employment. and with that benchmark i believe europe and the member states can go a long way.
commission. mr president, i would like to re-emphasise that the commission very much supports an early agreement on this regulation, except for the change of the legal basis. the commission can fully support the compromise package negotiated between council and parliament. the adoption of this compromise package will enable the community and the member states to ratify the stockholm convention in good time and a resolute majority tomorrow will send a very clear signal. on the issue of the legal basis, the provisions on prohibitions and restrictions of intentionally-produced pop chemicals will affect the functioning of the internal market and therefore these measures should be based on article 95(1) of the treaty. the fact that these bans or restrictions are introduced in order to protect human health or the environment does not mean that these provisions cannot be adopted on the basis of article 95. article 95(3) states clearly that the commission may propose legislation concerning health or environmental protection based on article 95(1) if these measures have any impact on the functioning of the internal market. thus it is appropriate that the regulation be based on both 175(1) and 95(1). furthermore, it should be noted that the commission also proposes to transfer the production and use bans from the pops implementation regulation to the future reach regulation on chemicals, which is based on article 95. if the legal basis were different, this move would have an effect on the option for member states to adopt more stringent measures. therefore, the commission considered that it was more appropriate to base these provisions on article 95. mr blokland wondered whether the commission would appeal to the european court of justice: i can only draw the house’s attention to the fact that the commission published a declaration in the council minutes clarifying its position in that respect. on the point of waste management, which mrs frahm, mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo and mrs doyle mentioned, it is important to note that the amended proposal clearly stipulates that for waste, destruction or irreversible transformation is a main rule, whereas other waste management operations can be allowed only in specific, clearly-defined cases. especially in regard to the high-content pops waste, the commission points out that permanent storage or other operations can only be allowed if destruction of the pop content is not the environmentally-preferable option. this is fully in line with the provisions of the stockholm convention. moreover, the modified provisions lay down additional conditions and a procedure to ensure that the derogation is not misused. on these grounds the commission can accept the compromise. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs frahm, and parliament for this very important piece of legislative work.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0056/2004) by mrs randzio-plath, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1177/2002 on a temporary defence mechanism for shipbuilding (com (2004) 26 final - c5-0061/2004 - 2004/0008 (cns)).
commission. mr president, we are talking about temporary events and i know that being the favourite commissioner of mrs riis-jørgensen is at most a temporary situation – it may imply an in and out evolution in this lucky status. i believe i continue to deserve that status, not only because of the inherent generosity of mrs riis-jørgensen, but also because i believe – and i say this in front of witnesses! – we are sticking exactly to the promise made to you and to others in parliament. why was this mechanism adopted as temporary? first because the commission – and i in particular – was totally against the re-introduction of an unlimited, permanent mechanism on operating state aid for shipbuilding. it therefore had to be temporary. temporary means two things; it is not permanent and it must have a logical criterion to define how temporary it is. the logical criterion there was the reasonable expectation about the duration of the procedure before the wto. we might be accused of logical incoherence if, after having proposed this – it was also decided by council and parliament – we were now to depart from that logical criterion. to be more direct, i confirm that this is not by any means meant to be the re-introduction of a permanent mechanism. it continues to be strictly related in time to the conclusion of the wto procedure. i should like to further clarify – and i am sure riis-jørgensen will appreciated this – that in spite of other views, no extension of the scope of application to other market segments has been introduced.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
- mr president, our rapporteur, mr per gahrton, is probably one of the best experts in europe on the situation in the south caucasus. it is, it should be recalled, thanks to his initiative that the european union now has a delegate in this region. the time allotted to me, one minute and thirty seconds, allows me to make just a few quick remarks. one point about the region does not seem to me to be sufficiently explicit in the report, probably for diplomatic reasons, namely the strong american presence. will this presence be destabilising, as in other parts of the world? georgia has just experienced, as you know, in november 2003, a kind of revolution, a coup d'état. i was fortunate to be able to attend it live as a member of the delegation from this parliament. these events are known as the "roses revolution" because there was no bloodshed. well, i can say that the rose revolution did not smell of rose! she smelled oil, and if she didn't smell the dollar, it's because we've known since ancient times that silver has no smell. among the dissident regions of georgia, should we not mention adjara, another diplomatic silence. finally, there is one point on which, as a catalan independence activist, i am taking a certain distance from this report. this is the question of separatism. there can be no peace in the world, in my opinion, unless the will of the people is respected. the right of peoples to self-determination is fundamental. the international community has a duty to enable the democratic exercise of this right in the south caucasus and in western sahara. this is true for the ajars, abkhazians, ossetians and azeri people of nagorno-karabakh. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eea-med). and the president responded that he would accept finnish sovereignty. why not take him at his word? it could be proposed that finland should have a kind of international mandate to ensure that fundamental rights are respected, and that a referendum be held so that the peoples of this region can ultimately decide freely on their own destiny.
(es) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for including this mini-debate on the occasion of working women's day on the agenda. it is a tradition in all countries that on this day some act or some statement is dedicated to remembering women's work, the equality between men and women and the fact that there is still much to be done to make that equality real. we shall see that in the following debates. i therefore simply want to call for this line of parliament to be maintained as an example of an institution which is moving forward in the defence of women's rights. we shall see in the debates on the following reports how much more still needs to be done to achieve equality between men and women and to achieve equality in the recognition of work. mrs napoletano, we women do not have to be constantly demonstrating that we work better than men; it is simply a matter of men recognising our work in the same way as their male colleagues.
(es) mr president, i would also like to make an appeal to this house today - international women's day. i will not speak about discrimination - my colleagues have already done so before - but i will say that i believe that gender-based violence is a problem throughout the world, and especially in my state, and that both institutions and society need to become aware that it is necessary to solve it. i ask this house to observe a minute's silence, both for the 13 women who have already died this year in spain and for those who have been murdered in the rest of the world.
the rapporteur. i would like to say that it would indeed be desirable if these discussions on the political dialogue and cooperation agreements with the countries of central america and the andean community were to take place in the presence of the commissioner responsible, mr patten, who has expressed his interest in being present. i therefore ask, mr president, on behalf of my group, and i hope that mr obiols i germà will agree, that these debates be postponed until a later part-session of parliament when we can count on mr patten to be present.
(es) mr president, i would like to inform this house that a document from the european commission's directorate-general for the environment on the spanish government's proposed national hydrological plan and its financing by the european union has appeared in the media in spain this past week. specifically, the document states that the request submitted by the government overestimates the demand for water and underestimates the cost of the work, that alternatives to the transverse canal have not been properly analysed and that no provision has been made to protect the ebro delta properly. the possible alternatives must be considered, mr president, water is a necessary but also scarce commodity. the european union should finance only those projects which offer the necessary guarantees and which do not harm any of its inhabitants.
mr president, next week mr theo van boven, the special rapporteur of the united nations commission on human rights on the question of torture, who is known for his great independence and integrity, will present his report to the united nations in geneva, fulfilling the mandate conferred on him. in its conclusions the report states that action against torture in spain is no less of a pressing need today than it used to be in the past. one illustration of that was given last week when three indicted young basques accused of transporting explosives complained of continuous torture and ill-treatment during their five days held incommunicado in the guardia civil headquarters. mr van boven said at last week's press conference that incommunicado detention 'not only creates the conditions for torture to take place', the measure itself can constitute 'cruel, merciless treatment'.
(es) mr president, although the shamelessness and the capacity to provoke in some seems to have no limit, it is still surprising that the only member of this house who has not been able to condemn even one of the attacks committed by his friends, the cowardly murderers of the terrorist group eta, should refer to an apparent defence of human rights. and if it is serious and reprehensible, mr president, to attack the right to life, it is even more serious to take advantage of the freedom conferred by membership of this house to justify the unjustifiable or defend the indefensible by word or by guilty silence. mr president, the only consolation we have left is to know that, by legal imperative, in the next legislature we will not have to listen to this kind of demonstrations which are unsound, which are contrary to the positions of parliament and which undermine the rights of victims.
commission. mr president, i welcome this joint debate on international women's day on the issues relevant to millions of women. this is a day not only to celebrate but also to reflect. what are we celebrating? certainly the progress we have made towards gender equality in the european union and also our solidarity with women around the world in all countries, remembering in particular those living in conflict and poverty whose rights are violated daily. we must also reflect on how far we have really progressed. that may make us wonder whether we really have so much to celebrate. the european union is on the eve of an historic enlargement and we are about to become a union of 450 million people, more than half of whom are women and girls. yet we still cannot say that women in general enjoy the same status as men in european societies. nor are they properly represented at national and international decision-making levels. violence and trafficking in women or, rather, sex slavery – which is the real word for it – remain scourges that we have not been able to tackle effectively enough. on the other hand, it is true that we have made considerable progress in the last 50 years, with the european parliament being a key player. we have to build on those achievements and ensure that the recently proposed equal-treatment legislation outside the labour market will become european law. we must do everything in our power to ensure a balanced representation of women in the next european parliament. gender equality goes hand in hand with democracy at all levels. women's rights are human rights. freedom from discrimination embodied in the charter of fundamental rights is the cornerstone of democracy. but democracy requires more than an absence of discrimination: it needs governance. good governance means sharing the power to make decisions in politics, economic and social life, public administration and in the home. we still have a long way to go. i shall start by answering mrs karamanou. the commission discussed the results of its activities to promote gender equality at the meeting of the group of commissioners on equal opportunities last wednesday. we were both there. this meeting is arranged every year, it is chaired by president prodi and attended by members of this parliament, also the council presidency, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, commissioners responsible for the issues on the agenda, the chairpersons of the european women's lobby and the advisory committee on equal opportunities for women and men. i would stress that the group of commissioners has an important role to play in raising the visibility of gender-equality policies and it has been actively promoting gender equality in several areas. the commission can claim several successes in this area. one recent example is the adoption in november 2003 of the proposal for a new directive on discrimination based on sex in the area of access to and supply of goods and services. another example is the first report on equality between women and men, requested by heads of state and government for the spring council, which was adopted by the commission on 19 february. this report sets out the challenges ahead, as well as policy orientations for the future, in particular in relation to a new enlarged europe. moreover, it should be noted that in its latest spring report the commission calls on heads of state and government to commit themselves to adopting the new anti-discrimination directive before march 2005 and this proves clearly that gender equality remains a top priority on the agendas of the council and commission. apart from the modernisation and extension of legislation, the commission has pursued the promotion of gender equality in the framework of the european employment strategy and of the social policy agenda. gender mainstreaming – incorporating gender equality in all policy fields and at all stages of policy-making – has started to be implemented, along with other measures, both in member states and at eu level. this is reflected not only in specific objectives and guidelines in the open method of coordination in the areas of employment, social inclusion and social protection, but also in efforts to close gender gaps in education, training and research. this approach is included in the steering documents on the structural funds. the commission has also undertaken concrete initiatives to improve the implementation of gender mainstreaming in development and external relations policy. furthermore, it applies a proactive staff policy within its own services. apart from this, an intensive exchange of views between the european parliament and the commission concerning the implementation of gender budgeting has taken place. regarding mrs karamanou's second question, the current commission cannot make any commitment on how the new commission will organise its work and what the main issues of the portfolios will be. however, the fundamental commitment to promote gender equality in european policies and measures will not change. nevertheless, a high-level mechanism dealing horizontally with equality is fundamental, as it ensures high-level leadership. a top-down approach – which is also necessary – enhances visibility of equality issues and promotes networking. specific arrangements regarding the functioning of such a group will have to be decided by the next college. i would like to warmly thank mrs gröner, the rapporteur on the daphne ii programme, for her cooperation and the quality of her work on this proposal which is equally important for parliament and the commission. the commission attaches great importance to the renewal of the daphne programme, which clearly meets a deeply felt need within the voluntary sector and the general public. our aim is to establish a second phase of the daphne programme for the period 2004-2008, building on the four years' experience gained during the implementation of the current daphne i programme. all areas of violence, such as domestic violence, violence in schools and institutions, in the workplace, commercial sexual exploitation, genital mutilation, health impact, gender violence, trafficking – it is sad that there is such a long list of violence against women – remain important and should be the subject of actions. organisations responsible for assisting victims are still the best channels for reaching and helping the beneficiaries of these actions. in addition, training bodies, universities, voluntary associations, research centres and local authorities are also eligible under the programme. the programme will contribute to the general objective of providing citizens with a high level of protection from violence, including the protection of their physical and mental health within the framework of an area of freedom, security and justice. it is intended to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, young people and women. by so doing, the programme will contribute to health and social wellbeing. the text represents a well-balanced compromise that will enable the community to resume the combat against violence for another five years with reasonable financial resources. i would also like to thank parliament for that and for its swift treatment of this decision. i am glad to confirm that the five amendments modifying the council's common position are welcomed by the commission. the first four redefine some concepts and clarify the scope of the programme and the fifth amendment requests the establishment of a help-desk to assist organisations in submitting their projects and subsequently in implementing them. the commission welcomes this suggestion and is pleased to implement it. this will certainly be a useful tool to help organisations and may, therefore, increase the quality of the proposals that we receive. finally, i turn to the bastos report on reconciling professional, family and private lives. i would like to congratulate the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and in particular mrs bastos for this comprehensive own-initiative report. i also take note of the valuable contribution of the committee on employment and social affairs and its draftsman, mr schmid. may i sit down, mr president?
- on international women's day, the president can't refuse to do what he wants. you may therefore take your seat, mrs wallström.
commission. i want to continue speaking, it is just that i am not feeling well. i will try to continue sitting down. reconciliation is a key concern at european level in employment and social affairs policies and the issues at stake are the promotion of more and better jobs and ensuring equal rights for men and women. the european union tackles reconciliation from many different angles, using several instruments, such as legislation, the open method of coordination between member states, and financing tools. there are already a number of directives that facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life: the parental leave directive, the pregnant workers' directive and the directive on equal treatment as regards access to employment, vocational training and working conditions. considering that we are on the eve of the biggest enlargement we have ever had, it is essential to concentrate on the effective implementation of the existing directives. in december 2003 the commission launched a re-examination of the working-time directive. the commission invited comments on the current text of the directive and the need to introduce other initiatives in five areas, including measures to achieve a better reconciliation of work and family life. the commission thinks that greater compatibility between the private and professional spheres and equality of opportunity between men and women would improve the overall equality of employment. moreover, these measures would also improve productivity by increasing motivation and availability and by opening up greater opportunities for training. the commission takes the view that a revision of the working-time directive could encourage the member states to further improve reconciliation of working and family life. in addition to legislation, the open method of coordination at european level gives special attention to this issue, in the areas of employment and social inclusion. the european employment strategy strongly encourages member states and social partners to develop better means for reconciliation. i agree with the opinion expressed in mrs bastos' report that better reconciliation not only helps women to access employment and remain at work, but also contributes to reducing the pay gap and gender segregation in the labour market. in the 2003 national action plans, reconciliation is seen by member states as the prime factor in decreasing gender gaps. six member states set national targets to increase their childcare provisions. since 2002, six member states have changed their leave provisions or have committed themselves to improving them, particularly with a view to increasing fathers' take-up. in april the commission will organise a peer review in sweden, a country where opportunities to combine family and work underpin strong female participation in the labour market and a relatively high birth rate. parental benefit is payable for 480 days with 60 days reserved for the father and mother respectively. eight countries – five old member states and two newcomers – will learn from each other about ways of implementing maternity, paternity and parental leave schemes, setting parental benefits and improving access to child care. the social inclusion process also pays attention to promoting the reconciliation of work and family life in the light of particular problems faced by low-income families. more recently the commission published a communication on making work pay, which highlights the importance of appropriate reconciliation not only for women but also for men. it analyses the limitations faced by women in accessing the labour market and remaining in employment and presents good practice developed in member states. the structural funds – in particular the social fund, which supports the implementation of the employment strategy in member states, and the regional fund – finance measures aimed at reconciling work in family life. for instance, in ireland eur 436 million will be spent over the period 2000-2006 to improve childcare facilities. reconciliation was also the priority theme of the gender equality programme in 2002. eighteen transnational projects were selected which focus on awareness-raising actions and exchanges of good practice. solutions for better reconciliation of work and family life do not lie in one specific measure. they require the appropriate combination of several instruments and there is a role for everyone to play – the commission, member states, social partners, social services and men and women who want to improve the quality of their lives. i very much welcome parliament's support in strengthening our activities in this field and making full and better use of the existing instruments. i now come to the last report, by mrs martínez-orozco, on women from minority groups, which is of particular importance – as mrs karamanou has already mentioned. i would like to thank the rapporteur, other members who have contributed to the report, and mrs karamanou for her statement. the european union has already done a lot to address the problem of multiple discrimination, which is faced by many women living in the european union, by developing an integrated approach. this integrated approach is reflected in european anti-discrimination legislation and programmes. the racial equality and employment framework directives were adopted in 2000 and have now entered into force. they prohibit discrimination on a variety of grounds, including racial or ethnic origin and disability. they specifically refer to the problem of multiple discrimination and provide protection for women within minorities, as well as women generally. the commission shares the concerns expressed by the honourable member in her report with regard to the delays in implementing these important directives in several member states. the commission has already begun to take action to ensure that all women and men living in the eu can benefit from effective protection against discrimination. member states are required by european legislation to establish bodies to tackle racial and sex discrimination and the commission expects that the work of these bodies will help grassroots efforts to prevent discrimination against women from minority groups and to increase the opportunities open to them. as honourable members are aware, the anti-discrimination directives are supplemented by a 100-million-euro community action programme to combat discrimination. one of the important objectives of this programme is to tackle discrimination based on multiple factors. on the issue of the roma, i share many of the views expressed by the rapporteur. the commission has also emphasised on several occasions that the elimination of discrimination against the roma people must go hand in hand with respect for the fundamental rights of roma women and girls, including respect from within their own community. gender equality is a principle of community law and a fundamental aspect of the european social model. the full participation of women from all walks of life in society and the economy brings with it important economic and social benefits. the commission reaffirms its commitment to mainstreaming gender equality and disability issues in its programmes and policies. (applause)
(es) mr president, commissioner, we are pleased to have the daphne ii programme here today, which is a continuation of the previous daphne i programme and reflects the recommendations made in the daphne i evaluation report, for which i was rapporteur. the daphne programme aims to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, young people and women in a multidisciplinary approach and has contributed to a greater awareness in the european union of this serious problem which unfortunately affects society as a whole. the success of the previous programme has been confirmed, which has enabled us to introduce some new features in daphne ii, among which i would highlight, firstly, the considerable increase in the budget: we have gone from 20 to 50 million euros, which, although it seems to be still an insufficient figure, is a rather important step forward; secondly, the exchange of good practices and experience, especially in preventive measures and assistance to victims, as well as studies and research; thirdly, the formation of educational tools in schools, where we must start preventing violence and promoting equality; finally, training programmes are introduced for the professionals concerned, such as lawyers, police officers, doctors, etc., and also the development and implementation of programmes to rehabilitate the aggressors, as sometimes the aggressor leaves prison and returns to the victim, causing new injuries. this is a new development which, in my opinion, looks quite interesting for the future. we must also pay special attention to prevention for groups at higher risk, such as women with disabilities or women in a special situation because they have been victims of violence before. that is, it is a program that continues to insist on zero tolerance towards violence against children, adolescents and women. i would also like to refer very briefly to the report by mrs bastos on the reconciliation of work and family life. i have to congratulate her on her very interesting and profound work, which should be the basis for other commission work, so that we can do something that really has an impact on the laws of the member states on work-life balance. the conditions must be created to enable women to pursue their professional lives without creating problems for them in the family, by making the appropriate changes to new parttime contracts, taking into account that this does not create problems in social contributions which may affect future benefits, by creating day nurseries, day centres for dependent persons, usually also run by women, as well as tax aid and aid for families with more children. we must achieve better pay for women's work, which unfortunately we continue to find pays less than men for the same work, and we must make progress towards the lisbon objectives so that the greater presence of women in the labour market becomes a reality. equal treatment should not mean that women must renounce family life, as is often the case, or motherhood and many of their responsibilities. a change must be made to bring about greater conciliation and to share responsibilities with men on an equal footing.
(es) mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, you must begin by congratulating mrs bastos on the excellent quality of her report and at the same time welcome the opportunity of this debate. despite the solemnity of numerous legal texts, such as article 13 of the treaty establishing the european community, articles 20 and 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and various texts of our respective constitutions, the fact is that discrimination against women is still a reality. this debate coincides with the celebration of international working women's day, but i believe that the success of the commemoration should not be limited to a few celebrations or the dissemination of appropriate or lucky slogans. success would have to be operational and lasting. i believe that employment is the best way to achieve integration, to overcome differences and to achieve equality. although the presence of women in the labour market has evolved favourably in recent years, it has not done so sufficiently: wage discrimination, dismissals for maternity reasons, the lack of specific risk prevention for pregnant women, sexual harassment or psychological harassment (mobbing) with the aim of dismissal to always circumvent the rights that correspond to women such as leave for childcare, etc. so alongside this employment scenario there is the need to support the family - the low demographic rate is calling for it - the need to support homework through new technologies and their dissemination, the need to make the working day more flexible for women, the integration of immigrant women, the increase in the possibilities of employment for women who are victims of domestic violence and, at the same time, of course, the speeding up of the processes of separation and divorce, the increase in work nurseries, in children's schools - all this within the framework of the implementation of the lisbon strategy - as mrs hermange said earlier. in conclusion, mr president, it is imperative that women in society should not have more problems than men, but the same problems. that she can and does have the same opportunities and responsibilities as men and that the principle of equal pay for equal work is respected. this, mr president, requires, and i conclude, a change of culture, of mentality and of customs. it is also necessary to change this and extend this cultural change to all social sectors, so that equal opportunities are real and not just symbolic, on paper.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think this was a very good debate. it was an exposé of both successes and shortcomings in the work on gender equality in the eu. what we have discussed here has been both about structures and about standards. it has been about very concrete problems and challenges such as equal pay for equal work, childcare and care for the elderly, tasks which should be shared more equally between spouses for society to function and a range of other problems which of course face both men and women, but especially women, in today's society. it has been a pathetic list and account of what so many women, young girls and children are forced to experience. it is called trafficking, but i think we should be careful to use the correct term: it is a kind of sex slave trade today in europe and in the world. if i get the chance at the spring summit, i will be the first to put this issue at the very top of the agenda. somehow all the other things we talk about become a little hollow and lose their credibility and their power if we continue to allow this direct exploitation and this direct trafficking of people across the borders of europe and internationally. sometimes we have to prioritize and be very careful to help each other in this fight. above all, the debate has shown that we in the commission must do our part to implement the existing legislation and why not also try to introduce new legislation. we need to use all the instruments at our disposal: legislation, the open method of coordination and our funding possibilities. we believe that it is right to take a step-by-step approach to legislation against sexism or discrimination against women outside the workplace. you have no doubt noticed how difficult article 13 of the directive has been. we believe, however, that we shall be able to succeed step by step along this road too. we must help each other across all frontiers to reach a situation where men too can stand up and say they are feminists, because that means ensuring that both women and men have the same rights, duties and opportunities.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0055/2004) by mr junker, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on population and development 10 years after the un conference in cairo (2003/2133 (ini)).
(es) madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, because i think it is an important opportunity to be able to establish precisely a common control of what the external borders of the european union should be. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. at the moment they are external borders and we do not know whether in a few years they will be internal, as has happened with other borders. but in any case there is a need for protection and it must be provided in the most community-oriented way possible. it is true that the member states have been exercising these functions, but i believe that the european union, in order to also give an image of unity in the external world, must have a common policy for the protection of borders and that is why i think the proposal that is being made is highly positive: that it should really be a community agency. in this sense, as regards the duties of this agency - such as the expulsion of third country nationals - i think that this is a subject which will have to be developed later and that, in any case, it is premature to deal with it at this time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. {es) mr president, let me remind you that we are in a codecision procedure and that this parliament is a co-legislating body. and that, which is obvious, you may not know, because i doubt whether the european parliament has done its duty properly in this case. let me explain: in december the committee on legal affairs and the internal market voted on a text, which will not be adopted today, but amendments will be adopted which differ radically from what was voted on at that committee meeting. why the disparity? because what was voted on in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market reflects the wishes of the members, while the final authorship of the text we are going to adopt today lies with the council. i do not want to see any criticism of the rapporteur in my words; that is far from my intention. mrs fourtou has done a good job of trying to reconcile positions, but in the end she has found herself with the inflexible position of the council, which has said 'if you want the directive to be adopted, you have to approve what we say'. and since we are aware of the need for the directive to be adopted, we have exercised our responsibility - and mrs fourtou was the first to do so. but sometimes we have to ask ourselves whether we should not also impose this exercise of responsibility on the council. there is no doubt that this directive is necessary, but there are doubts whether the text adopted will help to solve the problems raised. i do not think i am wrong in saying that the text adopted will be the laughingstock of commentators and will cause many difficulties for the member states in transposing it into their national law. the council's desire to prevent an initiative of the european commission from containing, for example, criminal law provisions has created such a confusion between civil penalties, administrative procedures and administrative penalties that i do not know what the member states will do when it comes to applying it. we shall of course approve this text, but with great scepticism. at the same time, at least the spanish socialists, we are going to support some amendments so that it can at least be seen that the council, with the forced collaboration of the european parliament, has completely distorted what was at the time a very good initiative of the commission.
(es) mr president, this morning's debate is very confusing, because we are hearing very different points of view. some say mrs fourtou has made a magnificent compromise and others say the big political groups have behaved like a kind of stool pigeon . we have heard speakers from different political groups - even the big ones - expressing very different views. mrs fourtou has tried to speed up the legislative procedure with what we might call 'conciliation avant la lettre', but i think we have to reassure mr imbeni that the procedure is still there. the bad thing is that the procedure for adopting legal rules in the european union at the moment, before the adoption of the european constitution, is a really baroque, complicated and difficult procedure. the interinstitutional agreement recently signed aims to remove these difficulties, but we know that in practice it will be very difficult to achieve. and that is because if there is no clear identification of a legislative body - which, in my opinion, should be as unified as possible - we are doomed to continue adopting this type of rules in which there are great contradictions. mr berenguer fuster said that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market reflected the views of the members of parliament. i disagree with that statement because most reports which are adopted - even by a large majority in the committee on legal affairs - are usually then corrected in the plenary. that is to say, at the moment, by its composition, the committee on legal affairs and the internal market does not reflect the will of the house. mrs fourtou has tried to get an agreement which does not reflect the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. i do not know whether that agreement will succeed, because we do not yet know what the outcome of the votes will be. we are talking about a report with a lot of amendments, with some huge amendments which, in theory, should not affect substantive law. it is a right relating to the application or enforcement of the substantive content. mr berenguer may be right about the confusion between civil, administrative and criminal enforcement procedures, but it seems that the aim has been to eliminate criminal enforcement or at least the possibility of resorting to criminal proceedings, and this is precisely because of the lack of competence of the european union in criminal matters. on the other hand, the scope of the directive has been extended - or is intended to be extended - to include the patent field, which is a field in a certain state of flux. the impression i have, mr president, is that this first reading will end with a text typical of these community institutions: a kind of camel - that is, a horse drawn by a committee - and that will probably be just the beginning, but i think it is preferable that we adopt this proposal for a directive as quickly as possible, at least to have a starting point for moving forward, first at second reading and then, of course, on the need for new legislative proposals.
(es) mr president, first of all, like other colleagues, i would like to congratulate mrs fourtou on her excellent work and i regret the intervention of mr turmes, who should not really be concerned about intellectual property, because he has only come to criticise mrs fourtou and her relations and has not been able to remain in this chamber throughout the debate. i believe that the fact that some of my colleagues in this house have family relations - i thank mr turmes for remaining in the house - does not prevent them from acting in this house, knowing that what we are discussing, this directive on the protection of intellectual property rights, does not concern exclusively the rights holders, but all consumers. we are also the consumers who have to ensure that intellectual property rights are protected, because we as consumers buy products which we want to be original and authentic and we do not want to be deceived by those who infringe intellectual property rights. i therefore believe that it is not the place of a member of this house to try to use mrs fourtou's family relations to discredit her work. there are two aspects which have been widely discussed this morning. the first concerns commercial purposes, and we have indeed amended the commission proposal, which was limited to acts carried out for commercial purposes. we must go a little further; i think that the rapporteur's proposal and the compromise amendments are balanced, and that it should also be possible to prosecute anyone who commits any act against industrial or intellectual property, whether it is done for commercial purposes or not. in reply to mr fiori, who has spoken before me, the inclusion of industrial property is important, and in the spanish case especially, since in spain the legislation on trademarks and patents is considered industrial property, not intellectual property. that is why the term has been extended to both. as regards the procedure mentioned by mr cappato and mr berenguer, we have sought something very important: to obtain a directive which could enter into force before 1 may 2004. so it is true that mrs fourtou has had to make some efforts to reach agreements and that the proposal we are voting on today in this parliament is not exactly the same as the one we voted on in committee. however, many of the aspects adopted in that committee are covered in what we are voting on today, apart from the two points i have mentioned: commercial purposes and patents. there are many other aspects which we have reformed from the commission's original proposal, such as the reduction of the applicant's formalities and costs, to speed up and ensure respect for his industrial property right; the simplification of the guarantees which the applicant must provide in the case of a defence of his industrial or intellectual property right; the fixing of compensation in the case of an infringement of industrial or intellectual property and, finally, considerations relating to the destruction of objects which have been used for counterfeiting or even the counterfeited objects themselves. these are other aspects which we have also modified in the commission's proposal and which make this directive - as the commissioner has said - sufficiently balanced for the time being.
commission. mr president, the commission's communication of june 2002 on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment sets out the comprehensive action plan on which the commission work on better regulation has been progressing over the last 18 months. improving the regulatory environment to obtain concrete benefits for operators and citizens is a joint responsibility of the european institutions and the member states. when launching its action plan 'simplifying and improving the regulatory environment', the commission therefore also called on the other institutions and the member states to contribute to the achievement of the common objectives. to the great satisfaction of the commission, the common objectives and joint responsibility for better regulation were fully recognised by the other institutions and in december 2003 the european parliament, the council and the commission signed the interinstitutional agreement on 'better lawmaking'. the interinstitutional agreement regulates and clarifies all the interinstitutional aspects of the work on better regulation. before i turn to the specific issues raised by the present draft resolution, allow me to recall just two of the key initiatives of the commission's action plan, which have also been integrated into the interinstitutional agreement. first, the commission is implementing a framework for integrated impact assessment. 2004 will be the second transitional year during which this framework will be further consolidated and improved, while keeping a balanced assessment of economic, social and environmental impacts. secondly, the action plan launched an ambitious effort to update and simplify the community acquis, for which the commission proposed a rolling programme in february 2003. this programme will be implemented in respect of the legislative procedures and the interinstitutional agreement. the commission welcomes the continued interest of the european parliament in better regulation. the report prepared by the rapporteur, mr medina ortega, focuses on the interinstitutional agreement on 'better lawmaking' and, in particular, on the use of the alternative instruments of co-regulation and self-regulation. the interinstitutional agreement establishes a framework for 'soft law' instruments that should facilitate their future use while fully safeguarding the competences of all community institutions. in fact, the three institutions have, for the first time, established a common definition of co-regulation and self-regulation. moreover, the institutions have agreed on general limits and conditions to the use of such instruments, defining the role of each institution in the process and ensuring that the prerogatives of the legislative authority are respected. the commission considers that the resolution is partly incoherent with the interinstitutional agreement and partly goes beyond the agreement. the commission could accept some of the orientations, but only within the limits of the provisions already established in the interinstitutional agreement. specifically, the commission considers that paragraphs 5, 7, 8 and 9 of the draft resolution deviate from the word and spirit of the interinstitutional agreement and the limits and conditions laid down therein concerning co-regulation and self-regulation. the commission considers that at this stage the real challenge is the full and proper implementation of the broad range of commitments set out in the iia. it would not be appropriate now to go beyond what was endorsed by all three institutions only a few months ago. rather than reopening the questions that have been settled by the interinstitutional agreement, the commission invites the other institutions to implement the commitments made. for example, the interinstitutional agreement on 'better lawmaking' acknowledges the importance of simplifying community legislation and commits parliament and the council, within six months of its entry into force, to modify their working methods by introducing, for instance, ad hoc structures with the specific task of simplifying legislation. these measures should, of course, fully respect existing treaty provisions.
the rapporteur. (es) mr president, despite its brevity - it is only ten paragraphs long with a few recitals and many paragraphs - my third report on the simplification and improvement of the regulatory framework is the result of reading many texts which are more than ten years old. the commission considers that this third report goes beyond what was achieved in the interinstitutional agreement. my report is not directed against the interinstitutional agreement, but aims to strengthen it. but through the long discussion between parliament, the commission and the council on the subject of improving the processing of community legislation, the rapporteur and with him the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which adopted the report unanimously, wish to express concern about a trend which i would call technocratic in legislative matters. the legislative process is a political process, it's a political decision-making process. it is true that we should avoid, as far as possible, legislation that is irrational, complicated and improvable. but the emphasis on purely technical considerations or even on the economic weight of a given legislative measure may not correspond to the need to adopt a legal rule. in other words, this european union has a defect of 'over-technification'. the european institutions have been criticized for being bureaucratic. i don't like the word "bureaucratic". i would say that what we have in the european institutions is a tendency to technicalise everything. and as a consequence, this technicalisation leads to a distancing from the citizens which leads to a rejection of the citizens in respect of our decision-making. in approving the interinstitutional agreement, this member of parliament and the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market underline the danger of reaching a decision-making process which completely disregards the will of the citizens. the only way - more or less perfect - for citizens to express their views on the community's contribution is through elections to the european parliament. if the european parliament cannot oppose, for example, technocratic procedures for small group decision-making in the form of self-regulation or co-regulation, i do not know what role it can play. mr president, i would reassure the commission that this rapporteur, and i think this parliament too, which i assume will adopt my report without serious difficulty, do not intend to undermine what we have achieved in simplifying community legislation, but rather to strengthen the political elements of the legislative process, remembering that delegations of a legislative nature must always be subject to the will of the people, through an institution with full legislative powers. the great difficulty, as we know, is that the present community legislation is the result of the accumulation of a series of international treaties which have been evolving and the solution will not be achieved until a european constitution is adopted which clearly delimits legislative powers. once there are clearly defined legislative powers, the legislative power can delegate, it can transfer to technical bodies; but never can these technical bodies replace the popular will expressed through direct elections to a legislative institution - the european parliament, the parliament and the council, whatever it is called - which wants to take those decisions. i therefore conclude by assuring the commission that our intention is not to undermine the interinstitutional agreement but, on the contrary, to strengthen it by introducing the political elements necessary to make our citizens believe in the european construction we are carrying out.
(es) mr president, we are faced with a sarcasm, a paradox, i would say. we are discussing here the legality and legitimacy of products originating in entities, settlements, that international law considers illegal. the european union, the united nations, the united states and virtually the entire international community consider the evacuation of these settlements to be essential if a viable palestinian state is to be built which can coexist peacefully with the state of israel. as for the issue on which this debate is based, the correct implementation of the ec-israel association agreement, i do not care what is done or how it is done, i do not care what law is applied or how. but it must be clear that israel cannot continue to apply the association agreement unilaterally to settlements which must disappear for peace to be possible. the legal continuity of unilateral application would be another sarcasm, a mockery, a humiliation which this parliament at least must combat. this is not the time, nor do i have the time for it, to denounce again the obvious lack of political will on the part of the sharon government to achieve peace. it is enough to insist here and now on the subject before us this morning, namely that the government of israel cannot provide proof of origin for products which, under community law, are ineligible for preferential treatment because they come from the settlements established in the occupied palestinian territories. we must remember once again the clear statement made by the commission on 10 may 2001 that exports from israeli settlements in the west bank and gaza, under the preferential treatment, are in breach of the trade agreements between the community and israel. even if only for tactical purposes, it is not wrong to recall that this parliament adopted on 10 april 2002 a resolution on the middle east in paragraph 8 of which it calls on the commission and the council to suspend the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european community and israel. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, i am surprised that, after commissioner liikanen has said that the european union will strictly apply the rules in force, we are hesitant about the review of the agreement with israel that is currently under way. i have no reason to doubt that the rule will be applied, but i do have very serious doubts that this parliament - or a minority of it - wants to promote peace between the palestinian authority and israel. i have always been convinced that if we want peace, we cannot play the bad guy and constantly penalize one of the parties. if we want to have credibility, we should play the positive, and if we want to supplement or at least compensate for the influence of the united states - which many speak of here - on israel, and for israel to rely on europe, what we cannot do is always seek punishment. if the occupied territories are going to be handed over to the palestinian authority soon - and we hope they will be - why leave them ruined? because there's a lot of fake in here. the palestinian zone does have a system of favours, just like the israeli zone. the problem is that there is this contradiction, this aporia, that this territory is both palestinian and israeli, as the israelis see it. we must find the meeting points, we must find peace. we need to have credibility with the people of israel, and i don't think we're going to get it with a scorched earth policy. moreover, with such a policy, the subsequent investment by the palestinians to incorporate these territories will be much higher. so, i repeat, why do we not look for the meeting points, why do we not offer the hand of europe to israel? i have to say, i don't understand why we're not doing it. (applause from the right)
(es) mr president, i simply want to inform the house that, in accordance with mr turco, there is a correction in the explanatory statement.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like those who have spoken before me, i believe that it is essential to have a legal basis which will enable us to have a stable budget for european cultural, educational and youth programmes. these programmes, which obviously involve the european commission, parliament and the council, must first have the right legal basis, and that is on the right track, and secondly the right budget. and this is an unfinished appointment that the european institutions have with european education, culture and youth. i have said many times in this house, i will not tire of saying it, and i will say it again today, that the future of europe is young people. it can't be any other way. and the future of europe will depend very much on the education these young people receive. although, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, education is not our responsibility, we can contribute a great deal and in a very positive way to achieving a more united, well-known, cohesive, cultured and educated europe, which is what we all want. in the end, this will be to the benefit of all europeans. that is why i ask that, once we have concluded the battle of the legal basis, we all start the battle to increase the budgets for youth, culture and education until we reach the amount they really deserve, because that suits us all.
commission - mr president, i shall try to be as brief as possible, mainly because i will be on the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport next monday. therefore, all the questions that i can read at this very moment in the gazes around me can be asked at that moment.
- the next item is the debate on the question of question time (b5-0066/2004). we are addressing a number of questions to the commission.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to make one point clear: it is true that there is a difference between agriculture and fisheries. i am also responsible for the international aspects of agricultural matters. i am also the negotiator for the agricultural sector, for example in the wto. in the fisheries sector, however, it is different, and my colleague pascal lamy is responsible for the international dimension. however, i will be happy to take up your suggestion and, in any of our next contacts, i can assure you that we have regular bi- and trilateral contacts make sure that the information is available to all those who might be responsible at an appropriate early stage.
- question no 28 by mr pimenta question no 29 by bill newton dunn (h-0090/04) subject: equal treatment of suspects throughout the eu if the european arrest warrant and the proposed european arrest warrant are to function satisfactorily, equal treatment of suspects' rights must be applied throughout the eu. when does the commission intend to make a formal proposal for an eu agreement on legal guarantees for suspects? in other words, when does the commission intend to propose equal access to lawyers and interpreters, to combat police immunity and to ensure uniform interpretations of human rights, including the right to liberty, the right to a fair trial and the right to remain silent?
commission. very shortly the commission is planning to present a proposal for a framework decision on certain procedural rights for suspected persons in criminal proceedings throughout the union. the draft instrument is in its final stages of internal consultation within the commission. when it is finished and has been translated, it will be sent to parliament and the council. the draft framework decision covers five basic rights: access to legal advice; access to free interpretation and translation, ensuring that persons who are not able to understand or follow the proceedings receive specific attention; the right of foreign detained persons to communicate with their consular authorities; and written notification of their rights. as regards the right to silence, the commission has asked the law society of england and wales to carry out a study on gathering and handling of evidence, including how the right to silence is interpreted in all the member states and in the acceding countries. once the report of this study has been received, the commission will evaluate the need for any proposal in this area. police immunity is not within the competence of the european union, since the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security are explicitly excluded from the ambit of the treaty on european union.
commission. i confirm that it is extremely difficult, because almost half the member states do not agree that there is a legal basis to deal with these issues at european union level. that is not the position of the commission. we think that mutual recognition, which is the cornerstone of judicial penal cooperation, requires mutual confidence among member states. to a certain extent, to create that climate of mutual confidence, we need a minimum degree of harmonisation or at least approximation of penal law, including procedural guarantees. we are not working in an empty field; the european convention on human rights lays down some standards. we think that we should go further at european level and be more specific about how to use the procedural guarantees already laid down in the european convention on human rights. we will present our proposal fairly soon and we will try to get it through the council. it will not be easy, but i am determined to follow that path.
commission. mr maccormick, i share your view that the situation is unsatisfactory but, nevertheless, there is no empty field, as i said. firstly, there is the european convention on human rights, which deals with fair trial rules, and which has been subscribed to by all member states and all acceding states. secondly, there are some specific procedural rules in the framework decision on the european arrest warrant as such and, thirdly, i am fully supportive of the idea of the charter of fundamental rights being legally binding, with constitutional status. as soon as we resolve the minor matters of the weighting of votes, it will come into force, i am sure.
- question no 30 by mr pimenta question no 2 by mr fischler
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the european council of 13 december 2003 gave the go-ahead for the establishment of a community fisheries control authority. the commission will present a proposal to this effect at the end of this month. in this proposal we will define the tasks of this new authority. the most important of these tasks will be to coordinate the joint use of control services in the member states. the controls will be carried out by multinational teams, among others, and the commission will define the inspection strategies to be used, such as benchmarking and common priorities. we will also involve experts from the member states in setting up the agency and consult the various stakeholders. we expect a study on the operational aspects of this agency to be carried out in september, the results of which can be discussed in the council in the context of the decision. the galician fisheries sector also gave me suggestions on a possible location during my recent visit to vigo, which i will of course have examined in detail and which are also the subject of the studies mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am aware, commissioner, as you can understand, of your visit to vigo, the city where i was born, and i know that the fishing industry in that city, which is very important in galicia, in the spanish state and in europe, has just made a number of suggestions on the functions and powers of this agency, to which i think the commissioner should give a concrete answer. moreover, i believe that we should promote an open dialogue with the industry before defining the agency's regulations, and i believe that this institution could provide the much-needed link between professionals and scientific institutions. in any event, i would like to ask you specifically whether the commission has already received the proposal from the spanish state for the seat of the agency to be moved to vigo and when do you think it will be finally moved?
the commission. we have not yet received the official proposal as to the precise location of this agency. but i also pointed out that there is still time for this because we must first of all establish a legal basis. and here we shall make the proposal without delay, but this proposal must also be incorporated into the legislative procedure.
(es) mr president, i would like to make a specific point in the context of the questions: as has been said, it is clear that it was the council which decided that this agency should be set up in spain, that this decision was approved and that the president of the 'democratically elected' government of spain, mr aznar, assumed that it should be located in the city of vigo. i think the commission has taken it on board too, since the commissioner himself was there. so i think there is no doubt about it. the sector is now naturally concerned about when this agency will start operating. i think that parliament will have to take a decision on the commission's proposal and that, once the new parliament is set up in july - and this is what i want to ask the commissioner - i think that in september it will be able to be, as he has said, in the operational phase. if parliament delivers a favourable opinion in the autumn, in september or october, does this mean that the agency could be operational by 2005 or that all the procedures for starting operations would have been completed, if all the procedures could be carried out from the new parliament constitution?
the commission. i would like to make it clear that the agency cannot start work until the legal basis is in place. i have pointed out that we will be presenting the proposal for the legal basis this month by the commission - we are moving very quickly here - and then both the fisheries council and parliament will have to take a position on it and take a decision. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to reach a decision on the matter in the near future. it is only when this decision has been taken that the tendering procedures can be opened and then the staff can be selected, and that will take a certain amount of time next year. i'm sorry, but there's no legal or technical way to speed this up. we would also not be able to use the funds until the legal basis is in place.
- question no 32 by paulo casaca (h-0072/04):urgent measures to prevent predatory fishing in the azores watersbefore the introduction of free access to the azores waters, which is due to take effect from 1 august 2004, several dozen community vessels not registered in the archipelago have entered the azores waters under the pretext of holding licences issued by other member states. the portuguese authorities have proved incapable of controlling the fishing gear used, the quantities and the species caught by the vessels concerned. the azores authorities are concerned that predatory fishing will take place before the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1954/2003 enter into force. when will the commission, in the exercise of the powers conferred on it by the treaty and its duty to ensure compliance with the treaty, take action to ensure that these activities are brought to an end without delay? when will the commission state its position on the approval of the council's position in the light of the increasingly clear evidence that the said regulation is in breach of the fundamental principles of the peoples and the principles of the environment as laid down in the treaty?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission is of course aware of the presence of spanish fishing vessels in azorean waters. however, there seems to have been a misunderstanding on the part of the portuguese authorities as regards the applicability of regulation no 1954 of 2003. article 5 of that regulation lays down the conditions under which fishing may be carried out in the waters around the azores, madeira and the canary islands. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to reserve fishing for local vessels within 110 miles of the coast. this has already been the case since 14 november 2003, when that legal provision entered into force. it is for the member states to ensure that these rules are then followed accordingly. the presence of spanish vessels in azorean waters outside the 100 nautical miles does not therefore justify immediate action, as you suggested, mr casaca, because these vessels comply with the access regulations. in this connection, i would remind you of the commission's statement on the adoption by the council of the 1954 regulation. we have also announced a ban on trawl fishing in azores waters to prevent damage to the delicate ecosystems on the sea floor. we have submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on 3 february this year. the commission is also in constant dialogue with the member states concerned to ensure that the new rules are applied as smoothly as possible.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i can assure you that we have consulted our legal services and that our legal services hold exactly the opinion that i have presented here and no other. we have decided in principle that: on the one hand we have established this new limit of 100 nautical miles, but on the other hand the fisheries protection zone has been extended to cover more species. in the past, there was de facto only protection for tuna fishing. i cannot therefore help you, even if you quote article 15. the spanish approach in the case you refer to was correct.
- question no 33 by maría izquierdo rojo (h-0091/04):on: recognition of actual spanish production in the future common organisation of the market in olive oil the reform of the common organisation of the market in olives in 1998 introduced a transitional period for the collection of reliable data on the olive oil sector to take account of spanish complaints that its quota was not correct. on the basis of this information and the evolution of the current market organization, it has been confirmed that it is inadequate and discriminatory compared to production in other member states. spanish and andalusian olive growers are thus the least supported, receiving on average 33% less aid over the whole period. in the future, a solution must be found to this discrimination. the new common organization of the market will enable the commission to adapt the spanish quantity to actual production conditions and thus avoid a permanent discrimination which would have serious budgetary consequences for the olive-growing regions and areas where this crop is of vital importance to their economies. will the commission carry out this necessary review and amend the spanish financial table to bring it into line with actual production?
the commission. i would like to begin by saying that we are going to discuss these questions raised in the last few questions tonight, because tonight is the debate on the reform of the olive oil sector, the tobacco sector, the cotton sector and the hops sector. the general principle of the reform of the common agricultural policy last june was that the national amounts of money should be equal to the average of the aid granted during the reference period. there is no reason why olive oil should be treated differently. the council of ministers has already decided to proceed in parallel with the june reform. a review of the national guaranteed quantities at this stage would also be contrary to the logic which led us to introduce these guaranteed quantities in 1998 and which holds member states responsible for keeping production increases under control. the national guarantees were then fixed at a level which, as subsequent investigations have confirmed, corresponded to the structural dimension of the sector in the individual producing member states at that time. as you probably know, spain's share of the total ceiling is 43%, between its share of the number of olive trees under cultivation of 39% and its share of the olive-growing area of 44%, compared with 1998. in this respect, what is at issue is a fair offer.
(es) mr president, commissioner, you know that the basis for this reform contains quotas which are out of date as far as spain is concerned. you know that spain is a specific case in this respect and that these studies and all the surveys show that the spanish production situation is indeed higher than has traditionally been recognised. spain has suffered a penalty in its production quotas, and this is obvious. this should therefore be recognised, because it is not the only member state in this situation. in view of the fact that the new cap reform is in fact a liquidation of the previous stage - and when it is liquidated, it is done according to the calculation of 'real realities', not that of outdated realities - and in view of the fact that during the whole of that stage which we are now liquidating, spain was comparatively penalized - and this is obviously demonstrable - by a mismatch in its production reality and, commissioner, recalling also that the spanish olive grove welcomed you very much always hoping that you would understand its reality and its potential in terms of health and environmental protection, i ask you: do you not envisage the possibility of reflecting the productive reality we have in the national budget? we ask for transparency and a tight quota.
commission. - mr president, i am sorry to have to correct you here. the situation is not exactly the same as in spain. it is not very wise for you, as the representative of greece, to argue in this direction, because the national guarantee quota for greece was in 1998 - as you rightly said - 419.5 thousand tonnes, which corresponds to 23.6% of the eu quantity. if you compare this with the number of trees you have, which is only 20% of the total, and with the hectares, which are only 18.8% of the eu area, it would actually be justified to transfer part of your guarantee to spain and not in the direction you have requested.
- as the commissioner has said, there is an important debate on agriculture this evening, and you will have an opportunity to exchange views. question no 34 is therefore withdrawn. question no 35 by carlos lage (h-0121/04):on the use of certain traditional designations of origin for wine by third countrieson 23 february, the commission adopted a series of amendments to regulation (ec) no 753/2002 oj l 118, 4.5.2002, p. 1. which allows the use of certain traditional designations of origin from third countries. these include 'tawny', 'ruby', 'vintage' and 'late bottled', which are exclusively used for port wine, as well as other terms used for madeira and various regional wines produced in portugal. there is no doubt that the amendments adopted by the commission will have a negative impact on the production and marketing of all the wines mentioned, but this will be particularly true of port wine, both because of the economic importance of this wine in a large region of portugal, namely the 'região demarcada do douro', where there are 33 000 wine growers, and because of the level of revenue, with more than two thirds of wine exports and about one fifth of food exports being made up of port wine. moreover, the generic use of terms which only refer to port wine, its importance and quality, may damage its international reputation. will the commission not, because of this error, rectify the problem and reverse its decision? what guarantees can the commission give that the reputation of port wine in the world will not be affected, particularly in terms of its origin, reputation and recognition by consumers?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you're probably familiar with the traditional english terms like ruby, vintage, tawny and late bottled. these names are protected at community level for quality wines produced in portugal and enriched with alcohol. in other words, these traditional terms can be used freely for other quality wines. however, in order to be allowed to use these traditional terms in portugal, a third country must meet certain requirements. the following conditions must be met: firstly, the name must be specific, that is to say, recognised as a quality name. secondly, the name must be distinctive or have a certain reputation, that is to say, the average consumer must be able to recognise the name as a distinguishing feature between a particular wine and another. thirdly, the name must be used in the territory of the third country concerned in accordance with tradition. fourthly, the rules laid down by the third country must not mislead the european consumer when the third country wine is on the community market. fifth, the official language of the country concerned must be english. so this is the case with south africa, with australia or the united states. if english is not the official language of the country concerned, the use of that language must be provided for in the legislation and english must have been used continuously for the traditional term for at least 25 years. since english is not the official language of third countries such as argentina, chile or brazil and since the legislation of these countries does not contain any provision to that effect, these countries cannot use the traditional names on the ec market. in order to use a traditional term in the community, a third country must submit a dossier to the commission, which will only allow its use if the numerous conditions i have mentioned are met. the management committee is involved in this procedure, which means that the member states are guaranteed a say. the amendment to the labelling regulation will not have a negative impact on trade, as the traditional names for fortified wines are limited, while third countries export mainly normal or ordinary wines.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me make this clear once again. of course, and i agree with you entirely, these are prestigious names and they also have a corresponding economic value in the marketing of these wines. it's perfectly clear. on the other hand, we have to follow certain rules. if we do not do this, we risk being sued and losing at the wto, and that protective system will be broken. i do believe that the regulations we have created are in any case sufficient to ensure adequate protection. the other question is the risk of misuse or falsification you mentioned. the risk of counterfeiting is not changed by these new provisions. the risk of counterfeiting is always there because it is attractive to use these prestigious names. in order to counter this risk, we must ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that such names are not misused, as has happened many times in the past. the first thing that is important is that cooperation with the import authorities works, because these imports cannot cross the border in this way, but must be declared.
- question no 36 by richard howitt (h-0126/04):on: mid-term review of the sugar regimein the light of the commission's recent opinion on the mid-term review of the sugar regime, what is the commission's response to the proposal by the least developed acp countries to maintain a share of their sugar exports to europe at current prices or prices approaching them?
commission. - mr president, you are right in theory that a higher price in europe makes the exports of the poorer countries to europe more attractive. but you must also be aware that the current price level is simply not sustainable for many reasons. we should have no illusions about our own beet growers or the beet exporters in the third world. our current internal market price is about three times the international price and we will certainly be faced with the fact that we will have to reduce external protection for sugar in the current wto round. this alone is sufficient to ensure that the price on the internal market will fall accordingly. there is no other way to do this. that is the problem we are facing. there are other questions: we can only compensate for the additional imports from the least developed countries by producing less, because sugar consumption in europe will not increase. then you must not forget that sugar is increasingly in direct competition with other sweeteners. you won't find sugar in coca-cola today. it contains isoglucose and nothing else. these sweeteners are also in direct competition with sugar. if we create a free market here, as the united states has done for a long time, then the quantities will increase accordingly. the result of all this is that in the european union, instead of production falling in the same way in each member state, it will simply be that sugar production in some member states will simply become unprofitable and that they will therefore withdraw from beet production. i'm sure you will. i think it's pointless to have expectations that we can't meet. in addition, there is the difficulty that we have to think about how we can help those developing countries with whom we have traditional sugar supply links, such as mauritius, if their sugar exports to europe are less attractive than they were in the past.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. when are the proposals due? we have said from the outset that we want to present the proposals before the summer, and that remains our view. at the very least, there could be problems because - and i did not mention this earlier - there is a panel in geneva against the european union on the so-called c-quota issue, and we should know what to expect from that panel. we must therefore also take into account the timetable of the geneva authorities. the second question: europe is of course an attractive market and many countries would like to supply europe. but we think that we should set clear priorities here, and these are: only the least developed countries should have free access to the european market. as you know, we have also made provision for a special arrangement for the balkan countries. the acp states and the rest of the world, with whom we have agreements, should have limited priority access with a clear tariff preference. if we give everyone the opportunity to supply sugar to europe, we do not need a sugar market regulation, but we need a complete liberalisation of the sugar market, which would mean that at least two thirds of european production would have to be abandoned.
- question no 37 and 38 will be answered in writing, since the time allowed for questions to mr fischler has expired. question to the commission question no 39 by marie anne isler béguin (h-0065/04) subject: negative human and economic consequences of pollution in the enlarged union a study published by the world health organization in september 2000 found that air pollution causes 31,700 deaths, 500,000 asthma cases, and 25,000 bronchitis cases each year in france alone, and contributes 1.7% of the gross national product. does this pollution-related deterioration of living conditions (health and life expectancy) in an eu of 27 member states not prompt the commission to speed up an epidemiological study of it in order to fully clarify the lethal impact (diseases and life expectancy) and economic costs of different types of pollution, especially in the future when combined with the effects of climate warming? does not the fact that such serious threats are facing european societies imply an obvious and urgent duty to carry out an epidemiological study, to disseminate its results in a way that reflects the risks involved, to make them known and to incorporate them into community policies?
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased about this question, which gives me the opportunity to delve a little deeper into our message on the environment and health. this is one of my highest priorities as commissioner. i must admit that this is also one of the most difficult questions, because it cuts across the division of subjects and responsibilities which we normally have in the commission and also in the member states. it is necessary to work across all boundaries to link cause and effect, and that is not easy. nor is it easy to put a price tag on the health problems resulting from environmental pollution. i think that the world health organization has started a very important work to do just that, to show that environmental pollution has a very high price for society and that health problems in society also have a very high price. we are of course also attacking this issue together with the new member states. several of the conferences we have had to prepare our action plan have taken place in the new member states. we are mobilising their experts so that there can be no doubt that this is a pan-european way of working on these issues. we take this very seriously. we will continue to argue that the cost benefits are so great that it is actually profitable for both business and society to invest in environmental measures that also lead to fewer health problems.
commission. this is definitely part of our approach. there has to be a sound scientific base for any of the actions or measures we propose. we are working with the world health organisation to ensure that we have all the knowledge necessary and that we work on a scientific base. i should also explain that our environment and health strategy is called 'scale', which stands for science, children, awareness-raising, legislation and evaluation. this means that the action proposed will be based on scientific results. it will focus on children. we will also use legal instruments, etc. we include, where necessary, new epidemiological work, and we are trying to do everything we can to ensure that we have a sound basis and all the facts necessary to do it in a proper way.
- question no 40 by maría luisa bergaz conesa (h-0066/04):on: electricity supply to redes, a nature park and biosphere reserve (asturias, spain) the commission is considering whether the electricity supply line from lada to velilla, which runs through the nature park and biosphere reserve of redes, should be located as currently planned. will the commission require a complete plan for this pipeline network, which will bypass the nature reserves that are part of natura 2000, respect the areas where bears live and thus also respect community legislation? has the commission received the environmental impact study which the spanish authorities promised to send at the end of january at their meeting on 4 december 2003? if not, does the commission not consider that it is necessary to contact the court of justice now (the reasoned opinion was published in april 2003) in order to ensure that the spanish government and the region of castilla y leon, which has also been sued in this connection before the spanish courts, agree to draw up a plan for a pipeline network that is not harmful to the environment?
commission. the lada-velilla power line project mentioned by the honourable member would cross protected areas in the autonomous communities of asturias and castille and leon. in 2001, following a complaint filed in august 2000, the commission initiated an infringement procedure pursuant to article 226 of the ec treaty. this procedure, based upon obligations under directive 79/409/eec on the protection of wild birds and directive 92/43/eec on the protection of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, reached the stage of reasoned opinion – the last step before bringing the case before the european court of justice – in april 2003. currently, the procedure is aimed at modifying the non-implemented part of the project in the autonomous community of castille and leon. in their answer to the above-mentioned reasoned opinion issued by the commission, the spanish authorities undertook to examine alternatives for the remaining part of the project – puerto de tarna to velilla – and confirmed in february 2004 that the necessary studies to comply with the requirements of article 6(3) of directive 92/43/eec will start soon. these include a full environmental assessment in order properly to identify the effects of the projects on the conservation values of the affected site; if these are considered significant, alternatives will have to be examined. if no alternative can be identified that is not damaging to the site, the project can only proceed if it can be justified on the grounds of overriding public interest and if provision is made for adequate compensation measures. in the event of significant effects on priority species identified under the directive, such as the brown bear, an opinion from the commission may be needed pursuant to article 6(4) of the directive. the spanish authorities explain that the necessary nature assessments will not be ready for ten months and that the resulting modified project will be subject to a full impact assessment procedure, in compliance with the provisions of directive 85/337/eec on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. the authorities submitted to the commission, as supplementary information, a complete set of documents and studies concerning the original project and its likely effects on natural values. an examination of the details of the above-mentioned spanish answers is currently underway, which will permit the commission to decide what course of action it should take in regard to this case. with regard to the last part of your question, the commission would welcome and encourage a fruitful dialogue between the interested parties in order to reach an agreed solution, but it cannot interfere in the constitutional competences of the various administrations.
(es) mr president, commissioner, the people are concerned about the lack of transparency on the part of the spanish government and also about the lack of reliable information from this commission, which says one thing and then reforms and does another. i shall concentrate on three questions only: will the commission continue the infringement procedure instead of closing the case, as the spanish authorities intend to do by promising to alter only 30 km of the planned 90 km route, claiming that it is a new project? will the commission refer the matter to the court of justice of the european communities at the next infringement meeting without further delay if there is no new evidence after one year of notification of the reasoned opinion and four years of investigation of this infringement file? would the commission be prepared, if the regions of asturias and castile and león were to submit to it a new project which respects all natural areas and is in accordance with community legislation, to co-finance such a project, in order to avoid the economic losses which the region of asturias could suffer by dismantling the existing towers?
commission. the case in question concerns the part of the project that will not now be implemented. that part of the project will be replaced by a new one once the full procedure of identifying impacts and exploring alternatives has been completed. that means that it would, in any case, be a new project and that the old procedure may have to be discontinued. in that case, should the commission consider that the new project does not comply with european community law, a new procedure would be initiated afresh. the spanish authorities provided information on these developments in february 2004. the infringement covers only the non-implemented part of the project. we cannot take that case to court as it stands.
- question no 41 by mr pimenta question no 42, by patricia mckenna (h-0078/04) subject: opening letters on the environmentis the commission aware of any member states other than ireland which have decided to no longer publish letters of formal notice or reasoned opinions from the european commission? in the light of this decision, will the commission itself publish these documents on request? if not, why not? if the commission will only publish documents in exceptional circumstances, what documents might they be? what particularly concerns environmental groups in ireland are the many cases where the commission has found in its reasoned opinion that directives have not been complied with but has not taken any subsequent legal action. the details of the infringements are no longer part of a possible case before the court and therefore do not need to be treated confidentially. by publishing reasoned opinions, particularly where no subsequent legal action has been taken, the commission would ensure that citizens were aware that eu law had been breached, which in turn would help to limit future breaches.
commission. i wish i could give you the full list immediately, but we think that the scandinavian countries and the netherlands would do it, and most of the others would not. that is the situation right now, although i may have missed out one or two member states.
- question no 43, by james (jim) fitzsimons (h-0089/04):about: un conference on climate changein a un report of 11 december 2003 on climate change and human health, it is stated that climate change affects human health, that in 2000 it caused 2.4% of the world's cases of diarrhoea, 2% of the world's cases of malaria and that it caused 150,000 deaths worldwide in 2000. the un study adds that they affect weather patterns and air pollution and are responsible for poisoning water and food. how does the commission propose to respond to the guidelines issued by the un in response to these serious problems?
commission. i appreciate that the world health organization is now raising awareness as regards climate-change impacts on human health, in a cooperative effort with the united nations environment programme and the world meteorological organization. the commission can support the general recommendations and conclusions of this world health organization report on climate change and human health because, for instance, it focuses on the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development. within the commission we are taking this carefully into consideration in the formulation of our policies. the largest benefits of climate policies for human health can be expected from the reduction in the concentrations of ozone and particles. as climate policies in general reduce fossil fuel use, they also reduce related particulate emissions. additional health benefits can be gained by reducing urban concentrations of no2 and so2. thus, emissions-control strategies that simultaneously address air pollutants and greenhouse gases lead to a more efficient use of resources at all scales, also addressing human health concerns. the world health organization report confirms earlier statements that there are still many knowledge gaps involving likely future patterns of exposure to climatic environmental changes and the vulnerability and adaptability of physical, ecological and social systems as regards such climate change. therefore, we need better information to establish further the links between the pollutants and health effects, with a view to improving our climate change and health policies. the action plan on which we are presently working as a follow-up to the environment and health strategy is designed to integrate this information. while the action plan focuses on a set of defined exposures and diseases in its first phase, broader issues, including those related to the health impacts of climate change, can be taken up in future phases. moreover, the forthcoming thematic strategic on the urban environment, to be adopted by june 2005, and for which an interim communication is presently under discussion within the commission, should also help local authorities and member states to improve the environmental performance of cities. this in turn would also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and make cities healthier places to live. we are also considering some projects under the sixth research framework programme. within the activities of scientific support to policies of the sixth framework programme, research is also funded on the physical and chemical processes of air pollutants, in particular on particulate matter at the urban to regional scales, in view of their impact on human health. under the last research framework programme, the ccashh project – climate change and adaptation strategies for human health in europe – was funded to assess the health impacts of climate change.
- i would remind the honourable members that we must ask questions as members of parliament. there is no reason to support the work of the commissioners to such an extent. this is question time. question no 44, by robert j.e. evans (h-0092/04):on: hunting trophiesas far as i understand, tens of thousands of endangered animals have been shot by european hunters and introduced into the eu over the past five years. is the commission proposing legislation to ban the importation into the eu of all species listed in cites?
the commission. the rules are such that the new member states must implement the nature conservation directives before they become new members. it is therefore extremely important to monitor and ensure that this is done, so that there is no hunting that violates the existing directives for the protection of wild birds, animals and habitats.
- as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 45 to 66 will be answered in writing. . question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
deputy to the co-commander maría rodríguez ramos. i should like to begin by taking up some of my time representing mrs rodríguez ramos, who, because of force majeure, is unable to defend her report on cotton as planned. mrs rodríguez ramos says that all the cap reforms in europe, from the mcsharry reform to agenda 2000, have always provided for a period of more than ten years for all the productions concerned to gradually adapt to the changes that come with the transition from a policy of price support to producer support schemes. mr commissioner, the current cotton reform was launched in 2001 and you now intend to make another reform without any environmental impact study, as we shall see, forgetting also that your purpose is completely unrelated to the policy indicated in the protocols annexed to the acts of accession of greece, spain and portugal, which include the objective of supporting cotton production in the producing areas. what you are trying to do is to achieve a total decoupling; we believe that your proposal leads to the abandonment of cotton production, the commission knows this, and, moreover, it is being done in the absence of valid studies on the sector. the commission is also aware that cotton production is concentrated in regions which suffer from a very significant backwardness, and that it will have a tremendous potential impact on the cotton sector and related services. and there is no alternative, mr. commissioner. what can these farmers do? regulation (ec) no 1783/1999 prevents them from planting fruit and vegetables, what are they going to do, commissioner, plant maize and penalize other producers of maize or beet, which is subject to quotas? and what are we going to do, commissioner, with the industrial sector? the compromise proposed by the rapporteur is consistent with this set of considerations and, moreover, is in line with the guidelines set out by the cap reform and our agreements with the wto and would allow the amber box to be removed from all cotton aid. so, commissioner, will you allow me to try, with your help, to avoid the disaster that would occur in terms of employment and the negative impact that the proposed reform would have on areas of my country such as andalusia, for example, which - as mr berlato has also said - are objective 1 areas with serious social concerns. on the subject of tobacco, commissioner, in addition to underlining all that mr berlato has said, because i agree with his arguments 100%, i would like you to read again - lest i repeat what you said this evening, 'that will not be a disruptive approach' - that in your own rules of procedure it is stated that a total decoupling, and especially for tobacco, could lead to the total disappearance of the productive sector. and yet, commissioner, you have proposed total decoupling, making fallacious and inadequate arguments, and giving the impression that there are good arguments, which we all know are hypocritical. it is not true that at the gothenburg summit the council adopted any specific conclusions on tobacco. is it not true, commissioner, that in the environmental impact study you only take the arguments of the health sectors, but not the experts? the commission, mr commissioner, is justifying itself by reforming the cap, when the truth is - despite what you have just said - that in june there was talk of partial decoupling, and it is precisely in the case of tobacco and cotton that you intend to make a total decoupling, knowing, as you know, that these are the crops which have the greatest impact on the production and employment of objective 1 regions in europe. does it not seem to you an insurmountable contradiction to advocate precisely this labour-intensive cultivation, on which the viability of not only tobacco growers but also thousands of jobs and entire regions and towns depends entirely? how can you, commissioner, propose the barbarity of abandoning these productions abruptly and without any transitional period in such sensitive areas of europe? i have very little time and too many arguments to make tonight, but i would like to make just one: commissioner, all the sectors in this parliament have made an effort to find a reasonable, fair and equitable solution. everyone has made some sacrifices; everyone has understood that an effort must be made to provide a flexible response for the member states and also to allow the sector to adapt. mr commissioner, since you have not brought a proposal of this calibre to the european parliament, i ask you at least not to prevent this great political agreement which has been reached in the european parliament from giving way to the tens of thousands of families who - as is the case in my own country - see in you an enemy of the future of their families and their jobs. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, we are faced with the continuation of an interim reform of the cap. i shall not repeat the arguments i made at the time. however, let me remind you of my opposition to measures which will substantially alter the common agricultural policy. it is clear that the decoupling of aid will reduce production and overall economic activity in less-favoured areas or areas with natural constraints. it will also create a dual market for land with and without entitlement to subsidies, encouraging speculation. it will also make it difficult for young farmers to set up, who will have to make investments for the purchase of payment entitlements in addition to those necessary to acquire land. all these processes will take place at a very sensitive time, both in the generational change of the holders of agricultural holdings and in the general economic activity and in the prospects for job creation, with serious consequences for the occupation of the territory. these consequences will be most acute in crops located in less favoured areas or those requiring more variable costs because of their labour requirements. this is precisely the case here, for cotton, tobacco and olive oil, these are the circumstances. i am aware of the mandate of the council of ministers, although i do not share it. i do not share it because its consequences will be devastating in wide areas of very sensitive. politics is simply the use of scarce economic resources to achieve certain objectives. until now, the resources used for these productions have been directed towards clear objectives. i wonder what the aims of this proposal might be. the risks involved are clear, however, and have even been acknowledged by the commission. this proposal marks a break with a policy that had borne fruit. the current olive oil com has allowed substantial improvements in quality and consumer safety. it has boosted economic activity in depressed areas. why are you giving this up? in other grass-fed crops, which lack the characteristics of oil, it is still possible to keep a percentage of the aid linked to production. why is this not considered in olive oil? i am also referring to the position of the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament. the maintenance of a part of the aid linked to production is the only way to ensure that what reaches the consumer is olive oil and it is worrying that this coincides with the proposal to eliminate the funding of the control agencies. even if the control agencies were to be maintained, what instruments could they have to guarantee the quality of the oil? in all activities there are honest businesses and others that are tempted to commit fraud. these, and only these, are the beneficiaries of this commission proposal. i have therefore tabled a number of amendments to maintain 25% of the aid linked to production and i hope that they will have the support of this house.
(es) mr president, commissioner, olive oil is one of the healthiest foods produced. it is a product with an expanding market, precisely because of the increasing attention paid by the consumer to his health care. this sector has no surplus problems and is currently the engine of progress in large regions in the mediterranean countries, on land which is difficult to replace by other crops, so it also perfectly matches the aspirations for economic dynamism that the european union has set out at the various summits of heads of state and government. there is therefore no objective reason to limit the progress of this sector. however, the draft reform which is on the table of the council of agriculture ministers takes very little account of the situation in the sector. this is all the more striking when one considers the scant attention paid to the problems raised by the various countries - including my own, despite being the leading producer in the european union and the world. in its reply to several parliamentary questions and today, the european commission has acknowledged that 23% of spanish olive trees would be left without community aid. according to the data provided by commissioner fischler, of the 288 million olive trees planted before may 1988, 66 million will not be put into production in the reference period used for the calculation of decoupled aid, 2000-2002. the commission believes that this deficit can be solved by making use of the national reserve of payment entitlements to be created as a result of the cap reform adopted in september 2003. however, this reserve - which will be made up of 3% of decoupled entitlements - will not only cover this gap but also all the other possible deficits that may arise in any other reformed sector, so i would say that this is a very small pie for the large number of guests who could be joining this party. the european commission also does not take into account the insufficient quota allocated to spain in 1998. it was ratified in this house today by mr fischler. despite the reform adopted that year, a political agreement was reached which was clearly reflected in the recitals to the cmo regulation in favour of revising national quotas once member states had reliable data on the situation in the sector. we already have this data. they have been on the table for some time, thanks to studies commissioned by the commission itself, which clearly show that the quota allocated to spain is far below its production reality. the reform of the olive oil sector should therefore not penalise producers, who have been making great efforts in recent years to improve their marketing channels. olive groves in marginal regions of the european union, which play an important socioeconomic and environmental role, should also be taken into account, as should olive groves from 1998 which did not enter production during the reference period. the reform of the sector should introduce sufficient flexibility to enable producing countries to address their specific problems. the olive oil sector, like other mediterranean sectors which this house is debating today, must also be given the same favourable treatment as the other reformed agricultural sectors, allowing the producing countries to introduce a transitional period before the new reforms are implemented. all this is reflected in the proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development, in that consensus proposal where we have all stepped forward, and i would like to express my thanks to the honourable members. daul, mayer, lavarra do not bother, amendment no 87 was adopted and must be in the consolidated text and to mr berlato. also, i ask mr. fences to transmit to... (the president cut the speaker off)
(es) mr president, the compromise reached in the committee on agriculture and rural development has been a great effort, mr commissioner, and has involved the reconciliation of opposing positions. i believe that it has great value as an effective balancing point, allowing the principles of cap reform to be fully applied and at the same time reducing the risk of agricultural job losses in less-favoured areas. i shall therefore vote in favour of this compromise and i think the commission should accept it. as far as the commission is concerned, i think that measures should be taken to ensure that the spanish financial picture is not penalized by the lag in its productive reality, as mrs redondo has just said. secondly, mr commissioner, we must avoid abandoning tobacco growing in granada, as long as the people concerned are not offered real alternative agricultural jobs. mr commissioner, the spanish people's party closed down the public and profitable tobacco company cetarsa for financial speculation. and now, with your proposal, you should not end up putting an end to this evil by dismissing from the countryside the 2 000 families who live off tobacco in granada.
(es) mr president, commissioner, we are looking at the interim reform of the cap in three important sectors with a significant presence in the mediterranean. i shall refer specifically to olive oil. the proposal on olive oil stresses the need to maintain the quality and standard of living of farmers, to combat fraud and to ensure quality production. i would like to stress that olive oil production varies greatly depending on the place where it is grown. and the yields range from 200 to 400 kg per hectare in some regions to over 800 kg per hectare in others. therefore, such aid cannot be limited to production aid only. we have often spoken, commissioner, of the multifunctionality of agriculture. olive oil production is no exception. olive oil production in less favoured areas can guarantee a standard of living for farmers, it can retain the population in these areas which would otherwise suffer from a depopulation problem. especially if it offers a chance of decoupling. in this sense, i believe that the member states should be able to guarantee all olive oil producers a guarantee and security in relation to the hectares they cultivate, regardless of the volume of production.
(es) mr president, in our country, and especially from the point of view of our group, we have a particular problem with the way the oil issue is dealt with in the proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development, because there are big differences between what oil producing areas receive per hectare. in spain, for example, some areas receive €720 per hectare, while other provinces receive €156 - almost a 500% difference. how can we expect them to compete with each other? in addition, there is another paradox: where more is produced and more profits are made, it is in areas owned by industrial owners, large multinationals, landowners, large producers. this is amazing! in the light of the comparison with trade, we would say that we are helping the english court or carrefour against the small trader. that this doesn't make any sense? that is what is really happening in practice, in everyday reality. we believe that this situation must change, because we must help the small farmers, the family farmers, to stay where they have always lived, so that they do not leave, so that we do not have to face depopulation problems one day. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not succeed, we will pay for it one day.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am going to refer to cotton and tobacco, and i have no choice but to begin by saying that, in view of these commission proposals, the first thing that can be thought of is that their aim is none other than to wipe out both crops. it seems that this sector and the thousands of farmers involved, who live in disadvantaged areas of southern europe, do not matter at all. it is also forgotten that in the act of accession of spain and greece, the member states undertook to protect the cotton production of both countries. the 2001 cotton reform in spain has already resulted in a reduction of about 20% of the area devoted to this crop as a result of the penalties system that was introduced. it is also pointless to use cotton as a bargaining chip in world trade organisation negotiations with third countries, as the commission is trying to do, since the european union only accounts for 2.5% of world production and, moreover, world exports are dominated by the united states (we only have 1.5%). it is therefore not an argument that can be used to reduce aid to cotton. now they are trying to turn the tables on a new reform project, which is putting the very survival of the crop at risk. these proposals, both for tobacco and for cotton, will also cause tremendous and important damage to the socioeconomic fabric of these crops. as far as spain is concerned, i can give you a few examples: i can tell you about the cotton milling industry, which employs 2 000 people, or the million direct newspapers linked to the sector, or the 600 motorized harvesters that are only used to harvest cotton and that would have to go to the scrap heap. and even more serious, mr commissioner, is the case of tobacco, which requires up to 2 200 hours of work per hectare and where, for example, in talayuela, in extremadura, which is the largest spanish tobacco-producing town, of its 10 000 inhabitants, 5 000 are employed in tobacco production. in extremadura alone, more than 20 000 families make a living from this crop. however, the report adopted by the committee on agriculture substantially reduces the level of decoupling of aid advocated by the european commission, thus somewhat reducing the threat of abandonment of farming. it is extremely important that we support this report, so that the council of ministers can be clear that this parliament is in favour of maintaining these sectors, on which so many jobs in disadvantaged regions depend.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to put the principles of fraternity, solidarity and equality into practice and to put the european constitution into practice. the taoiseach has taken up the pilgrim's staff and i would suggest to the irish presidency - a people of poets and writers - that they take with them a phrase from a great european, a french citizen, who proposed the united states of europe in the 19th century, victor hugo, who said: the future has many names, for the weak it is the unattainable, for the fearful the unknown, for the brave it is the opportunity. i think we are at that point, because we must remember that, according to the eurobarometer, european enthusiasm is declining in almost all our countries. however, 78% of european citizens are in favour of having a constitution, including the british - 51% - which is interesting. i therefore call on the spring european council to resume the intergovernmental conference or, even better, to take the bull by the horns and the heads of state and government to sit down and resolve the outstanding issues. that's what you'd have to do if you really understood the historical moment we're in. the european union must not be blocked, but must decide by majority. in this connection, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to express the support of my group - and specifically of my party - for the unblocking of the situation in my country, for the change from the method of the joke to that of constructive debate. it is a really important step, to use the double majority and a weighting that allows us to go on and to function. another important issue - and one which is of paramount importance to parliament - is the scope of the qualified majority and the balanced sharing of legislative power between parliament and the council, including budgetary power. there have been major setbacks in the last drafts of the italian presidency. and it's a subject that concerns us very seriously. i think parliament must make its position clear: we are not prepared to see a clear retreat because the constitution is adopted. another important point discussed at the informal meeting, like many others, held in berlin between three countries, was the creation of a commission minister responsible for the economy, a coordinating minister. parliament has already repeatedly argued for responsible economic governance. we have a draft constitution in which there is a foreign minister but no economy minister. if we are serious about the lisbon strategy going forward, a strategy which creates jobs, which also creates the technological conditions of the future, we must put our face to it. that could very well be the subject of consideration and amendment of the constitution by the intergovernmental conference. as regards the financial perspective - which also remains a contentious issue - we support the commission's proposal for the financial perspective, which is in line with its responsibilities, and we cannot accept a downward bargaining, especially at the time of enlargement. parliament could have said that it was in favour of 1.40% of gdp. we have agreed with the commission's position, but we do not think that haggling is a good sign for the future. finally, mr president, my group is clearly in favour of taking account of the outcome of the european elections, on the basis that we all want to win them. but in any case, there is one fundamental point: in the european political landscape there will be no hegemonic force and, if we use parliamentary logic when proposing the president of the commission, we must be consistent. in a parliamentary system, the important thing is the ability to create majorities, and that is done around a programme. that is why it is pointless, mr poettering, to veto the budget before the time. we are also prepared to win the elections and then to form a progressive and pro-european coalition. now we'll see how available you are. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president-in-office of the council, i take your words, as well as those of the vice-president of the commission, to mean that ireland feels that it is capable of reaching an agreement on the constitution of the convention. if you do, we'll celebrate. not only because ireland is a celtic country, like my own, galicia, but also because it would demonstrate once again that it is one of the great europeanist nations of the union. i, as a representative of one of the stateless european nations which is not yet recognized as such, have reservations about this draft constitution, which are the result of the shortcomings of the cohesion policy or the weakness of the positions on our peaceful presence in the world. but i trust in the historical sense of the european union, which is unequivocally in favour of solidarity in diversity and opposed to the uniformitarianism of the jacobin states which prevails today in the state of which i am a citizen. it would be good if this parliament, mr president-in-office of the council, could make a solemn act coinciding with the irish presidency, by adopting the constitution.
(es) mr president, although there is an error in the text of amendment no 1 tabled by my group, i want to make it perfectly clear that the purpose of that amendment is to set up a delegation in the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee independent of the delegation for relations with mercosur.
(es) mr president, i too would like to focus my remarks on the progress made by romania in meeting the copenhagen criteria. i would like to stress two points. first of all, i think it should be recognised that romania is taking steps and making efforts to fully comply with these criteria. i missed a recognition by the commissioner, mr verheugen, in that regard. that does not mean, and we are all aware of this, that there are no obstacles to overcome, but it is encouraging that these obstacles have been identified and that the romanian authorities have taken steps to eliminate them. the fight against corruption, which the commissioner mentioned, guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary - and in that sense fundamental legislative reforms are under way, contained in the new constitution - freedom of the press, reform of the public administration, etc. in this connection, i would like to say that some of the recommendations contained in mrs nicholson's report, such as the publication of the reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture, have been welcomed by the romanian authorities and i therefore believe that paragraphs 17 and 18 have become obsolete. and of course, among the remaining obstacles i cannot fail to mention the protection of children in international adoptions. secondly and lastly, i would say that while it is important to take concrete measures within the specific deadlines, it is also important that the whole of these measures reflect a clear path towards full compliance with these criteria. this has been the approach followed for the ten states which will join on 1 may next and the same approach must also be applied in this case.
(es) mr president, commissioner, the european union is completing its enlargement process and i think it is no coincidence that today's debate has been parallel to the debate on the follow-up to the intergovernmental conference which should lead to a european constitution because, in my view, the two should be inseparable. i shall refer, in the one minute i have, to the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne on romania. i think it is a very well-done, comprehensive report on the problems that exist in that country. it highlights the need for the country to move forward in the enforcement of the law and the fight against corruption, as well as the need to strengthen the rule of law and respect for minorities. i am referring in particular to the hungarian minority of over one million inhabitants in romania and also, of course, to the roma minority. on the problem of abandoned children and adoptions, i think the commissioner's answer has been clear: the welfare of children must be at the forefront of this process. i believe that the report can be a positive stimulus for romania to continue on the path it has started.
(es) mr president, commissioner, the commission has presented us with a new amendment to the guidelines for the transeuropean transport networks, in which it proposes to increase the number of priority projects to be declared of european interest. we do not agree with any of them, but above all we cannot accept that a short-term list, which would be restrictive, be proposed to the council at the same time, justifying it as necessary for the community's growth strategy. if priority projects are to be implemented by the end of 2006, we propose that a financial premium or surcharge be introduced for the certification of work actually carried out during this period. this would contribute to development, not restrictive measures such as the quick start list. we welcome the inclusion of the motorways of the sea, but we need to see them as cross-border sections so that they can access the highest levels of community funding. finally, we call for the possibility, in cases where the member states have difficulty in financing a particular project of european interest in time, of submitting proposals for its implementation to the regions and autonomous communities concerned which have their own resources, and for these communities to have access to the aid which could finance the transeuropean transport networks covered by the community budgets in all their lines.
(es) mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr philip charles bradbourn, on the effort he has put into the preparation of this report throughout its entire process. the projects concerned, known as priority projects, which will be declared to be of community interest, will enjoy a peculiarity of maximum interest because of their greater ease of access to available community resources. in our case, we welcome the inclusion of the amendment to annex iii project no 16, the sines-badajoz railway line, by resizing it and adding some road and rail links which will also allow greater permeability of the pyrenees and will solve the bottlenecks which usually occur in this area. but it must be clear that this permeability of the pyrenees - that is our opinion and our demand - must extend to algeciras itself. we also welcome the support for the so-called 'highways of the sea', since by giving these transnational maritime routes the same importance as motorways or railways, we will facilitate the connection to countries isolated by natural barriers. the benefits will undoubtedly extend to countries with island or peripheral regimes. in this line of reasoning, however, we fail to understand why, in a certain passage, the specific mention of the iberian peninsula (portugal and spain) is omitted in the connections with the north sea and the irish sea. our vote will be guided by these considerations.
(es) mr president, commissioner, i would like to put to you a case for which i cannot find a solution: imagine a network, a link between two countries, supported by all the studies that say that in 2010 we will find a collapse in the movement of goods and passengers between those countries. we have a problem here, namely that one of the two countries does not support the implementation of this project. it turns out we can't find a solution. something is wrong, because what is going to happen is that in the year 2010 the collapse is going to happen and that network will not be created. i, who am an aragonese member of parliament, and you, who are spanish like me, know that i am talking about vignemal. we are faced with a project which is absolutely necessary for the interconnection between northern and southern europe and with a country, in this case france, which seems to be postponing its interest in developing the project. i can honestly say, madam commissioner, that i do not find any solution to this problem in the commission's documents. i hope that you, who i know is a great supporter of the project, can solve this dilemma i am in.
(es) mr president, commissioner, we are in first reading, not 'second first reading', and i have to tell you, as rapporteur for the white paper report i was, that the draft you are presenting to us is orderly and well on its way in line with those recommendations. and so i congratulate and also thank mr van miert for his work, because, of course, railways, ports and maritime transport, waterways and roads, mainly in the enlargement countries, are properly covered, so we are on the right track. now is the time to respect the role of parliament. we cannot be convinced, as the rapporteur has claimed, that parliament cannot amend this proposal. parliament's proposals are not bell-ring amendments. i think the commission must continue to play its part in ensuring that many of the proposals, which are extremely reasonable and which i shall not mention, are accepted and accepted because they contain very positive ingredients.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers and, of course, in particular, the rapporteur, mr bradbourn, for the extraordinary work he has done, and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism as a whole, which has tabled amendments and concentrated on proposals of great european added value and of great interest. i would like to say to the honourable members that yesterday, at the meeting of the council of transport ministers, i told them that if the council had amended the commission's initial draft proposals - even if it was a single amendment, which was discussed and supported by the van miert group, but which had not been given the green light by the states at the time - we had to allow parliament to do the same. that is to say, incorporate and possibly retouch existing projects, provided that they are projects which have been considered by the van miert high level group, discussed by the representatives of all the states - also by the eib and others - and which have, moreover, the green light of the states concerned. i also told them that it was not a question of substantially amending annex iii or all the projects, but of giving parliament its prerogatives, that is, the ability to make contributions to the proposals for transeuropean networks. i have seen a certain flexibility on the part of the council, a constructive flexibility, which could be interpreted as 'we too have been very respectful; it has been an exceptional thing; it cannot be that now, suddenly, the question is being reopened'. and that's where, in that balance, we have to move. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in addition to specific amendments to specific projects, to which i shall refer at the end of my speech, there are a number of amendments in your proposals which refer to general issues and many of them have been accepted. in this connection, i am pleased to note that most of those which seek to clarify the text of the proposal for a decision can be accepted by the commission. for example, amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 (part one), 12 (part two), 16 and 17; others can be accepted with some wording changes, such as amendments nos 10 (part one and part two) and 40 concerning the reference to environmental analyses; it is clear that any project financed by the commission must comply with existing environmental legislation; that is an obligation. the commission therefore agrees to add a reference in the text to highlight this aspect, as in amendments nos 33, 34, 37, 42, 43 and 44. as for the other amendments, some cannot be accepted because they are already implicitly included in the proposal and are therefore redundant, for example amendments nos 11 (part two), 12 (part one), 18 and 21. other amendments have been rejected because they go beyond the scope of the proposal for a decision, for example amendments nos 2 and 13 (second part). amendments nos 7, 8 and 15 do not exactly correspond to the objectives of the proposal and therefore should not be accepted. as regards amendment no 7, we cannot accept it in its entirety, because we believe that the concept of 'motorways of the sea' should not be so widened that it would mean losing the strength gained by concentrating and selecting specific projects; however, there is one part - to which i would like to refer - which can be accepted and which relates to amendment no 22 by mr jarzembowski, and that is that we could include an express mention that within the motorways of the sea there will be canals linking two seas. i think this makes sense and we can include this modification. we do not want to abolish the open competition procedure, i mean the calls for proposals. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot award motorways of the sea "by the finger", because that would be completely against our proposals. what we must do is open up concessions to competition, because that is the only way to maintain balanced systems, to make the most of the various opportunities and to maintain the basic principles of the treaties. we must ensure transparency and competition, and that means that we must make offers, calls for tenders and proposals open. the financial conditions are specified in the financial regulation and not in this document. as regards the european coordinator, the commission accepts, as i have already said, amendments nos 9 and 10, with some clarifications, whereas amendment no 8 cannot be accepted as such by the commission, which does not mean that parliament will not be informed of the appointment of coordinators, but that the commission will inform parliament of the appointments as they are agreed. as regards annex iii, as i said, the commission maintains its position that it will not reopen the debate, but that it will have a certain degree of flexibility because, i repeat, this house is acting on parity and on full equality with the council. the council has reopened it and we therefore understand that a margin of flexibility must be allowed. the council has also understood the commission's argument. in this connection i would like to say that four amendments containing modifications or clarifications of the outlines of projects already listed in annex iii, proposed by the committee, should be accepted, provided that the countries concerned accept these modifications. because against his will we can do nothing. i would like to say to mr ferrandez lezaun that i do not understand him. unfortunately, this is not the only case; when you sit in my chair you realise that this is not the only country and the pyrenees are not the only border where situations of, say, asynchrony or lack of coupling of times occur, which is indeed bad for everyone. so we cannot make changes that countries do not accept. in this sense, yesterday we were trying to reach agreement with the countries on the modifications of these characteristics that they would be willing to accept. i have some answers, which i will pass on to you. for example, the first part of amendment no 22, namely the linking of the two channels, could be accepted either because we put it in black and white or because we put it in a generic way, but in this case the countries concerned agree to include it. the first part of amendment no 20 algeciras-bobadilla, which has a mixed concept, not like now, which is conceived as transport, is already included in draft no 19 and what we have to do is to include it as part of the sines-madrid-paris, the great cargo route and there we have the green light too. the second part of amendment no 22, the baltic sea highway, project 21, can go all the way to the north sea; it will be renamed the baltic sea-north sea highway and we also have the green light from the countries concerned. the first part of amendment no 19, concerning project 6, namely lyon-turin-trieste-koper-ljubljana-budapest, would seek to specify that the railway line from trieste to ljubljana passes through divaca and that the line between venice and trieste passes through ronchi sud. the commission is having difficulties here because the countries concerned do not show their agreement. we are talking about precisions which consist in setting a course with a difference of 20 km to the north or south, as is the case, for example, in the case of ronchi south. in the thick stroke we have on our map it's not clear whether it's going a little bit further north or a little bit further south. this will depend in the end on the will of the country concerned and on the routes which can be defined in the light of environmental criteria of all kinds. however, it is difficult for the states to accept it as such. the same applies to the proposal that the trieste-lubiana route should pass through divaca. slovenia says they have difficulty accepting it. the commission has no problem, let me be clear, but the problem is with the countries concerned themselves, and we are talking about precisions of 20 km away, of going into the details of some major axes. i repeat, the commission has no problem with this, but the states concerned must be taken into account. some amendments involve adding projects or sections which have already been carefully evaluated by the van miert group. as far as the latter are concerned, if the criteria of article 19 are met, including a firm commitment by the states to implement them, the commission is fully prepared to facilitate such an agreement. but there are only two projects analysed under this criterion: one is the seine-escalda river project, which does not seem to raise any problems, because the council, at its meeting on 5 december, accepted it and, of course, if parliament raises it, the commission has no problem. and the second draft is amendment no 26, concerning the prague-linz link. i know that for some members of parliament it is very important. we can very possibly have the green light from the countries concerned for this stage, but i am not so sure that we have their green light for the rest of the project. i therefore ask you not to vote for this draft or at the very least to consider only the first part. the commission will of course listen to what the countries concerned say in the council, because we cannot go against their opinion. other amendments introduce important changes which have not been assessed by the van miert group, such as the marseille-turin railway line, to which amendment no 19 refers, which has been rejected, and the haparanda line, to which amendment no 47 refers. at the time, these projects were not submitted by the member states concerned and do not meet all the selection criteria of article 19, in particular the commitment of the union states to a timetable. in the spirit of article 156 of the treaty, the guidelines for projects require the approval of the state concerned, and the commission must therefore oppose these amendments. other amendments propose axes in third countries. in this case, the commission cannot include in the transeuropean networks routes through third countries, but we are aware of the problem posed by the existence, after enlargement, of an enclave surrounded by the territory of the union. in june, in compostela, we will meet with the heads of the various pan-european corridors to review them, bearing in mind that two thirds of these corridors, after enlargement to 27 states, will be within the union and will be transeuropean networks, which are the ones we are approving today. in this review of pan-european corridors, specific and particularly dynamic attention will have to be paid to those projects which connect european territory through non-european territory, as is the case in some countries of the former yugoslavia in the balkans. ladies and gentlemen, certain amendments propose to withdraw or delete parts already included in the commission's van miert group proposals and approved by the council. these are amendments nos 1, 7, 20 and 25, which the commission cannot accept. the projects included in annex iii, i repeat, are based on economic studies and political approval by both the van miert group and the council. ladies and gentlemen, there has been a request for express mention of spain and portugal on certain motorways of the sea instead of saying 'the southern part of europe', as mr camisón has said. i'll check it out, but as far as i know, it's still in the proposals. the central crossing of the vignemal, the central crossing of the pyrenees, i repeat, must respect the will of the states. we must try to encourage them, but we must respect what the treaties say: that without the agreement of a state no work can be done on its territory. i would like to conclude, once again, by expressing my thanks to the honourable members and by saying that, as you can see, the positions of the commission and the council offer a certain flexibility to accommodate some of the proposals and contributions of this parliament which are an improvement on the initial text and which, moreover, presuppose respect for the balance between the two institutions. i ask this parliament to understand that there is this margin of flexibility, but that it is impossible to reopen the basis and the whole of the proposals for these new transeuropean networks from the top down, which we are urged to approve so that, from 1 may 2004, when we will be 25 and not 15, the ten new member states will be reflected in them, because they will be part of the whole of the union. i thank mr bradbourn and the whole committee on regional policy, transport and tourism for their work.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the debate on the question of question time (b5-0066/2004). we are addressing a number of questions to the council.
council. – the presidency will be submitting an assessment of the prospects for progress in the intergovernmental conference to the european council in march, as agreed at the european council in december 2003. however, it is not for the presidency, speaking on behalf of the council, to express an opinion on the issues raised in the honourable member's question. the council has neither discussed nor taken a view on the question of a two-speed europe. it is not on the agenda.
(es) mr president-in-office of the council, on behalf of mr nogueira, i would like to ask you a supplementary question and then, if i may, put one of my own.
mr ortuondo, you can only act as mr nogueira's substitute, because according to the rules of procedure there are other members of parliament who wish to ask supplementary questions. you must confine yourself to speaking for the questioner.
(es) mr president, i am a member of the european parliament and i have as much right as anyone else to speak on my own behalf.
please follow the instructions of the presidency.
(es) mr president-in-office of the council, we have heard that the main points of disagreement in the intergovernmental conference are the composition of the commission - whether or not there should be a commissioner per member state - the council presidencies and the redefinition of the qualified majority for decision-making in the council, limiting it to a majority of states and a majority of the population. do you not think that the representation of all the member states in the commission helps to make more citizens identify with the european project? and do you not think that positions such as that of the spanish government, which seeks to create blocking minorities on the basis of the third nice criterion - the number of votes in the council - can push other governments to break free of limitations and to move through the european union at two, three or more speeds?
council. – as i said at the outset, the issue of a two-speed europe is not on the agenda and i am not going to speculate on this issue. i am aware of, and in my statement this morning made reference to, many of the other issues that are of concern in the context of the igc. the further supplementary question on the meeting of the three countries in berlin is one that i responded to in a previous part-session. i indicated that these three countries were holding discussions amongst themselves, that they were not the only countries doing so, and that these were in fact very helpful to the irish presidency. but the main point is that this issue of a two-speed europe is not on the agenda in the context of our considerations in the igc.
question no 2 by mr miguel ángel martínez martínez (h-0071/04) subject: book fair in cuba the annual book fair in cuba is a cultural and informative event of great international importance. this year the organisers had planned for germany to be the guest of honour. it seems that the german government has refused to participate, referring to the common position adopted by the council and the council's recent policy of cultural sanctions against cuba. nevertheless, the number of authors and publishers from germany or other eu countries participating has not been reduced. does the council consider that the common position and the sanctions mentioned are not only beneficial to cuban culture but also to european culture, or are they harmful to it? does the council feel that its authority is weakened when the invited european publishers and authors ignore the council's position and maintain their participation? several have condemned the eu's cultural sanctions policy as "meaningless, unreasonable and contrary to our interests".
council. – as both the council and the commission have repeatedly made clear in the european parliament, the decision of 5 june 2003 was part of a package of measures taken following the violation by the cuban authorities last year of international human rights standards. this took the form of the summary trial and lengthy prison sentences imposed on a large number of dissidents for exercising their right to freedom of speech and participation in public affairs, as well as the summary trial and the rapid execution of three hijackers of a ferry boat, in breach of international minimum standards for the implementation of the death penalty. the four measures announced on 5 june 2003 were symbolic and political in nature and therefore their implementation concerns only the governments of the european union member states and their officials. it does not affect the private sector or individual citizens, who are free to attend the cuban book fair and indeed any other cultural event organised by the government of cuba if they so wish. regarding the private opinions mentioned in the question, the council has no comment to make on what those attending the fair may have had to say. they have the right to express their views, even if their views are wrong. once again the eu calls on the cuban authorities to release all political prisoners without delay and to resume the de facto moratorium on the death penalty. the council reaffirms the continuing validity of the common position as the basis of the european union's constructive engagement with cuba, to be pursued through political dialogue so that tangible results can be achieved, particularly in the political, economic and civil rights areas.
(es) mr president-in-office of the council, dear friend, i am not prepared to fight over the use of a word. a few months ago, the european union reacted to certain actions by the cuban authorities with measures which you considered appropriate and which i - especially those adopted in the field of cultural cooperation - considered disproportionate, unfair and even absurd. i don't know what you want to call those measures. they say they're not sanctions. i would like to find another word, i don't know if they are restrictions, reprisals, pressures, retaliations, cultural blockade as the cubans themselves say. i would like you to tell us what word we should use to really get an answer to what we are asking. apart from that question, i repeat the question i put to you here: what do you think about the measures taken in the field of cultural cooperation helping or harming cubans and europeans? and secondly, does the president-in-office of the council consider that the behaviour of our civil society, participating massively in activities which have been, if not boycotted, at least obstructed by the european union, is a way for civil society to question the union's policy towards cuba?
council. – the words i used were very specific. as i mentioned, the measures were symbolic and political in their nature and therefore the implementation concerns only governments and eu member states. they do not have a direct implication so far as individual citizens are concerned. i also make the point that the measures which were announced on 5 june were taken only after the most careful deliberations. it was the council's considered view at that time that the application of the measures represented a balance between maintaining the willingness to engage in political dialogue to allow for tangible results, and the necessity to make it clear that grave human rights violations such as those that have occurred in cuba in the last 12 months were not acceptable. i am sure that mr martínez would accept that is the position. finally on a general issue regarding the eu and cuba: the measures adopted by the council were very carefully calibrated. some people might say that they are very mild, but the are proportionate in response to specific circumstances. the european union values this relationship with cuba and hopes that those relations can be improved. it is mutually beneficial to aim for an improvement in that regard.
(es) mr president-in-office of the council, i will not be the one to support, of course, the executions carried out by the cuban government. but i have to remember that there are many executions in the united states and also many targeted killings in israel. they're happening every day. i would like to ask in this connection whether the council is going to take any action with regard to the agreements with these two countries which i have mentioned.
council. – i am sure that everything the member has said is quite correct. i am sure cuba is an intriguing and interesting country. the diplomatic measures announced on 5 june were intended to send a signal to the cuban authorities that the new and grave violations of human rights simply were not acceptable. the measures were not designed to isolate cuba in any way. on the contrary, in reconfirming the validity of the common position on cuba on 21 july 2003, the council stressed that political dialogue should be continued with a view to producing tangible results, particularly in the political, economic and rights spheres. the council remains very much open to political dialogue. with regard to the point made about the impact, the cuban government is aware that the council acknowledges its significant achievements in the field of social rights such as health and education. however, it remains our earnest hope that the cuban authorities will come to realise the necessity to make similar advances in the field of fundamental civil, political and human rights. the same level of achievement in those areas as in the areas mentioned by the honourable member would be very welcome.
question no 3 by marco cappato (h-0075/04) subject: capps ii test and breach of eu privacy and data protection law documents obtained by a civil rights organization called epic under the u.s. freedom of information act show that northwest airlines, a u.s.-based airline that flies between major u.s. and european cities, has passed on information about millions of passengers to nasa as part of a massive data mining experiment. the information was released in violation of northwest's data protection policy, and nasa's collection and use may also be a violation of u.s. privacy law. eu law prohibits the routine transfer of personal information for purposes unrelated to the original collection. is the council aware of this violation of eu and us legislation? does the council know whether these data relate to eu citizens and whether they include passenger name record (pnr) data? when will the council raise the matter with the competent american authorities? does the council not consider that the current us policy on data protection (transfer of personal data to nasa, creation of capps ii, unilateral initiatives on passenger data contrary to eu law) does not allow the us to be defined as 'adequate' under eu directives, as also argued by the french cnil and (the french national commission for computers and freedom) and other national data protection authorities as well as data protection advocates?
council. – the council has answered that part of the question. i would draw ms mckenna's attention specifically to the points i made with regard to the competence of national authorities – in the case of the united kingdom and in the case of the dutch authorities – in the area of data protection. the member is also wrong when she chooses to ignore the reality that the commission is conducting negotiations with the us authorities. it is misrepresenting the role of the council to suggest that it is a council function. it is not, as the member well knows.
- question no 4 by patricia mckenna (h-0077/04):on: non-lifting of the eu arms embargo against chinahow does the council propose to follow up the parliament's resolution adopted in december on china and the maintenance of the eu arms embargo? how will the council assure parliament that, despite the decision subsequently taken by the rome council to put this matter on the agenda of the general affairs and external relations council for reconsideration, the embargo will not be quietly lifted at any of the forthcoming general affairs and external relations council meetings?
council. – i am aware of ms mckenna's views on arms embargoes, which are not a million miles away from my own. the council has taken account of the european parliament's resolution and will continue to do so.
question no 5 by mr bernd posselt (h-0079/04): what is the council doing to combat forced prostitution, child prostitution and trafficking in human beings at the current schengen border with the acceding countries and at the eastern border of the new member states?
council. – when you address the issue of the specific measures that i have mentioned, you are addressing the symptom and not the cause. the cause, of course, is poverty, criminality and a breakdown in civil society. the cause is also the extraordinary transition that countries go through when one system that seemed secure has diminished and another is being put in place. you are right, mr evans: if you look at all the union policies in the broad sense, that is exactly the approach that the union is adopting. it is adopting a holistic approach. in the balkans, which you mentioned, there is a very specific union policy, which is well-informed and well-focused. it gives people, particularly member states and their governments, the prospect of closer union with the european union and indicates very clearly that we have certain standards that they have to set. so on the one hand we are encouraging them and on the other hand we are discouraging certain actions. we are taking a holistic approach. i agree with mr evans.
council. – i should like to thank mr sacrédeus for his comments. the points that he mentioned were touched on in my original response and fleshed out in the supplementaries. this is an issue that requires a very wide range of responses. i take issue with mr sacrédeus at only one stage: unfortunately, the women and the children who are the victims in this particular case are exploited from birth. they are exploited because of the conditions that exist in their states. they are also exploited by being exported like products to the rich west. it is something that all countries have to take responsibility for. i am proud of the work that the european union is doing in this regard because it is a model for the rest of the world – i have no point of disagreement with mr sacrédeus on that.
- question no 6 by luisa morgantini (h-0082/04):on: restrictions on entry into the palestinian territories since the beginning of this year, a brochure entitled 'information on entry into the territories under the control of the palestinian authority' has been distributed to visitors, aid workers, eu officials and staff of international organisations. according to the document, entry into the gaza strip and the west bank, referred to as judea and samaria (areas a), is prohibited without a written permit issued by the israeli authorities. persons entering the areas without this authorisation risk sanctions, including expulsion and a ban on subsequent entry into israel. does the council not consider that this is a violation of the oslo accords and of international law as such, and a deliberate violation of the sovereignty of the palestinian authority? does the council not consider that the absence of border controls by the palestinian authority constitutes a restriction on the free movement of persons wishing to enter the palestinian territories? has the council already taken steps towards the israeli authorities to have the document and its provisions withdrawn, or does it intend to take such steps in the future?
council. – as ms ahern knows, any delegation of which she is a member would be met with an open door. she is quite right that this is a very serious issue. to refer to the earlier supplementary question, we have, for example, consistently condemned suicide bombings, which are part of this spiral of violence. suicide bombings play no legitimate part in any agenda. with regard to the wall, separation, barrier or fence – whatever euphemism one would wish to use – the union has expressed its concern. it has particularly expressed its concern that the route envisaged for the wall has in a number of places departed significantly from the green line. i cannot use stronger words that those i used on a previous occasion: this is not the way to create peace. separating people never works. at the end of the day we know that it is dialogue that works. when people get together and have a dialogue they can resolve their differences.
question no 7 by mr seán ó neachtain, subject: status of gaelic (irish) as an official language on 1 may 2004, the number of official languages of the european union will increase from 11 to 20, which will lead to an amendment of council regulation 1/1958. gaelic, which is a treaty language under article 314, is not listed as an official language under secondary legislation. can the council confirm that the procedure for granting gaelic the status of an official language is that the irish government should submit a request to that effect and can the council outline the procedure to be followed thereafter? finally, can the council state whether there are any factors which would prevent such a request from being granted?
mr beazley, i have complied with the rules of procedure which allow two speakers from different groups in addition to the member who is asking the question. i have followed the rules of procedure.
- they're members of different groups.
- i'm sorry to hear that, mr beazley. i can assure you that i am following the rules of procedure.
yes, mr beazley, but after mr paisley, who asked to speak first.
council. – i would ask the honourable member not to trespass on my concerns about minority languages. as it turns out the part of ireland in which i was born is very close to cornwall. in fact, in parts of wexford, where i was born, there was a minority language that borrowed very heavily on the cornish language. the union should have a concern and a generous policy for the lesser-used languages, because they are part of the extraordinary cultural diversity of the european union. i do not want to say that the irish language is in a special category. for me, it is in a special category, but legally it has a status that is rather different to some of the other lesser-used languages. however, i take the point that you made. do not trespass on my concerns, because i have a concern on this and on the issue of the scotch-ulster language and the extraordinary revival of this language. perhaps i have said more than i should as president-in-office.
- question no 8 by nuala ahern (h-0085/04): on the export of nuclear materials and weapons to pakistan, mr abul qadeer khan, the recently retired chief scientific adviser to the pakistani president, has recently made shocking admissions of having organized nuclear weapons procurement and sales networks and secretly sold nuclear weapons components to iran, libya and north korea. in view of this, will the presidency immediately take measures to stop the export of nuclear material by eu member states which could be used in the manufacture of nuclear weapons, including plutonium from, for example, sellafield and highly enriched uranium, at least until the extent of illicit procurement for the possible manufacture of nuclear weapons has been fully accounted for?
council. – i know full well the passionate concern of the member on this particular issue. she is quite right when she says it was not named by accident: perhaps it was a happy accident that it was named after the god of the underworld. the issue raised in the first part of the question is absolutely terrifying. since that report became available, there have been further reports of people travelling with caesium in the boot of the car. these reports, and their implications, are terrifying. they are, if anything, more horrific than heroin. the community is engaged in the issue; we have made the concerns of the community known to the pakistani authorities. i take the point ms ahern made in her supplementary about matters nearer to home, but it is not up to me to provide a definitive solution. the general point about non-proliferation is that the strengthening of the non-proliferation treaty is obviously the way to go and that is the way that civilised countries will go. since september 11 we have a different view on security, and we should all be very conscious of the implications in this particular area.
- as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 9 to 26 will be answered in writing. . question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
(es) mr president, after an intense and controversial debate, the socialist group has decided to support the report we are considering. my group has decided to distinguish between the scientific and technical nature of the report and the political nature of the conflict, while condemning the attitude of the sharon government which - with its policy of indiscriminate killing, the construction of a wall that steals even more palestinian territory and its refusal to evacuate settlements - blocks the quartet roadmap and makes the establishment of a viable palestinian state more and more difficult. my group also believes that when it comes to scientific and technical cooperation, special consideration should be given to the society which may benefit from such cooperation. the rapporteur acknowledges in the explanatory statement that the extension of the agreement, and i quote, 'coincides with a complicated political situation in which the peace process is stuck'. i'd say it's pretty much stuck. he is in such serious danger that only a forceful action by the quartet, which has not yet occurred, could save him. the rapporteur also states that, and i quote, 'the agreement could help to reduce tension, as it offers palestinian researchers and research centres the possibility of cooperating with other israeli centres'. i very much doubt that this is the case. we are facing a situation of military occupation whose nature goes far beyond the concept of 'tension'. and on the other hand, i think that palestinian researchers and research centres can hardly benefit when they are both surrounded by a wall which prevents them from moving freely and confines them to ghettos and bantustans which are a disgrace to humanity.
(es) madam president, allow me as a spaniard to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have expressed their solidarity here. let me also express my utmost contempt for these animals in human form and, above all, my affection and solidarity for the families who are suffering today; my solidarity and affection for their pain and suffering. as the commissioner said, mr solbes, we must continue, even if it is not easy. we discussed the commission's proposal to update regulation (eec) no 1408/71 as regards specific non-contributory cash benefits. the proposal is mainly based on the incorporation of the case law of the court of justice of the european communities, specifying the special and non-contributory nature of certain benefits, and also reflects changes in the various national legislations. i think the heart of the debate is whether or not benefits provided for by national legislation are included in annex iia and the consequences of such inclusion in that annex, that is to say, their non-exportability or, where appropriate, their exportability. i agree with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the various amendments, both because of the characteristics or nature of the benefits in question and the conditions of access to them, and because of the difficulty or impossibility of monitoring them. amendments nos 4, 5, 7 and 8, which concern benefits whose exportability has been discussed for some time, are obviously envisaging benefits sometimes with equivalent in the member states, adapted in addition to living conditions. in any case, i think it should be studied. and i certainly cannot agree with amendments nos 9 to 12; firstly, because they are all about family benefits. the general criterion of the regulation is that family benefits are exported; otherwise it would be discriminatory and would make it difficult and impede the free movement of persons, and in that free movement, families would be travelling with the social security backpack on their backs. finally, madam president, i would like to draw attention to the fact that in some member states the right of pensioners to health care is now or in the future subject to the payment of contributions to their pension. i am naturally referring to the new article 33 (1) of the regulation. this means that a very large number of pensioners would have their income reduced. in the case of spaniards living in other member states, their pension would be reduced, whereas if they lived in spain they would receive 100% of it, because health care is a right that we could call automatic. we would therefore be faced with a clear case of discrimination and an obstacle to the free movement of persons.
(es) mr president, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur. we live in an ageing world. at first glance, this phrase may sound negative, but it also offers its positive side, which would be the lengthening of people's lives. both aspects must be viewed objectively. the aim is, of course, the right of older people to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life, as provided for in article 25 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in fact, this article is systematically contained in the second chapter, entitled 'equality' - perhaps as an extension or specification of the principle of equality: 'all persons are equal before the law', as proclaimed in article 20, and at the same time of the prohibition of all discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of age, as proclaimed in article 21 - and not in the fourth chapter of the charter, entitled 'solidarity', as one would think in a first approximation, if the right to health prevention and to health care under the conditions laid down by national laws and practices is included in this fourth chapter. the three big goals to be achieved are obviously: universal access regardless of one's economic situation, quality health care and the financial sustainability of health systems in the long term. in a europe whose principles and objectives include the free movement of persons, national strategies must be given the impetus to modernise and coordinate, both to avoid possible social exclusion and to facilitate the return to society of the experience, wisdom and knowledge of the elderly. the very old, as a sector of this population is called in the report, deserve special consideration. since their care will require a large amount of labour, their care will be a source of employment which, in any case, will require the professionals of this sector, the service sector, training and specialization. i want to end by talking about the need to become aware of the problems. many times, the awareness of society as a whole prevents problems from arising in the future. a typical example is the building regulations or the removal of architectural barriers.
(es) mr president, we are going to vote on a resolution in paragraph 4 of which we are going to declare our support and solidarity with the victims of terrorism and their families. it is a terrible and fatal coincidence that on the very day when we are calling for a european day of remembrance and commemoration of these victims, the terrorist and murderous group eta has caused a deplorable massacre in which more than 138 people were killed and hundreds injured in various parts of madrid. as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and also on behalf of all the spokesmen of the groups who have expressed their support for me, i would like to table an oral amendment to paragraph 4 of this resolution which refers to the date of the celebration of the european day, so that it is 11 march instead of 11 september. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, i suggested that the groups should not speak. i think this suggestion makes sense. we can reflect and work on this later. this is the worst terrorist attack the european union has seen to date. we have a lot of time ahead of us. today we simply make a suggestion and a gesture that i think is appropriate. please let us vote on the amendment and not turn what was a gesture into an absurd and inappropriate discussion. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, the subject we are dealing with has occupied the european parliament for years, although i would say with a low intensity. that is to say, there is already a 1999 european parliament resolution on the environmental impact of military technology and there are also, with regard to this specific subject, a couple of written questions to the commission, the first by mr sturdy and answered by mr busquin, who pointed out that no assistance had been requested for an investigation of the subject, and the second, later, by mrs caroline lucas, answered by commissioner wallström, on the impact of low frequency sonar. commissioner wallström has agreed - or at least mr solbes now agrees with what she said to us then - that this issue falls within the scope of the habitats directive. that is to say, there is a principle of community competence in this area, even if it is military in nature. it should be remembered that at this moment the us federal courts have issued an injunction against the us navy to prevent it from using high-powered, low-frequency sonar in the pacific ocean, to prevent damage to marine life. as my predecessor, mrs korhola, pointed out, in 2002 nato military operations were carried out in the waters of fuerteventura and lanzarote, involving european union vessels, and as a result 14 whales were stranded. studies have been carried out by two professors, one from the university of london, mr paul jepson, and the other from the university of las palmas, mr fernandez, which were published in the journal 'nature' in november 2003, highlighting the impact of sonar operations on whales. apparently, they cause a disorientation in the whales that causes them to emerge suddenly; a decompression phenomenon occurs, nitrogen accumulates in the whale's blood and the typical diver phenomenon originates. i mean, from a scientific point of view, the connection is already proven. we are talking about a species of small whales, like dolphins, like the ziphios, which is in a very desperate situation, and at this point, the question we are asking is, what is this military technology for? because the reason the americans are developing these new low-frequency sonars is to detect quiet submarines that only they make. i mean, if there is no other country in the world right now that has the technology to make these silent submarines, what is the point of our ships, which belong to nato and are linked to the us navy, developing that technology? immediate damage is being done to those species. i think the commissioner has answered correctly, but in view of the scientific studies we already have and the existence of that 1999 european parliament resolution - which the commissioner himself knows, as he is well acquainted with the waters i am talking about - i think it is time for the commission to consider the possibility of taking initiatives which, within the limits of the commission's powers, will enable the community institutions to deal with this matter. as the commissioner knows, the european union is currently moving towards some kind of defence and security policy. it is already at least enshrined in the treaty on european union, and i believe that in the context of the union's security and defence policy we must also consider the negative effects of such a policy. i therefore hope that this first statement by the commission will be the beginning of a new community policy and that, at least in the next parliament, this parliament will be able to receive from the commission some indication of the direction in which we are going. i have the impression that, following the study in the journal nature by professors jepson and fernandez, the impact of these low-frequency sonars on the survival of cetacean species is scientifically clear. we must now begin to recommend concrete measures, asking states, at least in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, to take account of these scientific findings in order to contribute to the maintenance of our already severely damaged marine fauna.
(es) mr president, venezuela is currently going through a crisis which is leading to a social polarization of unforeseeable consequences which has already claimed the lives of several people. the position of this parliament in the long-running venezuelan crisis has clearly demonstrated the need to find a peaceful solution, a dialogue solution, a constitutional solution and a solution that is presented in a fundamentally electoral perspective. this solution was reflected in an agreement between the representatives of the government and the democratic coordinator by holding a revocation referendum, which is the constitutional mechanism provided for by the constitution of venezuela that allows to revalidate the popular support for the president of the republic. the recent decision of the national electoral council not to validate a significant number of the signatures collected to call the referendum does not, in our opinion, respect either the spirit or the letter of those agreements and has been the trigger for the latest events in the country. it is clear, in our view, mr president, that citizens cannot be deprived of the legitimate exercise of their rights and that the national electoral council has the duty to facilitate and guarantee the exercise of the popular will. the european parliament must therefore, through this compromise resolution, which has been signed by three political groups, first of all appeal for calm and restraint. it should call on the government to guarantee the rights of all citizens, including the right to peaceful demonstration. it called on the national electoral council to accept and adopt without delay the recommendations made by the carter centre mission and the mission of the organization of american states. it reiterates its support for the agreements concluded between the government and the democratic coordinator. it expresses its concern at the failure to comply with the directive and asks the government to ensure that it is implemented as soon as possible. mr president, we also need to call for the european union to redouble its efforts to ensure that these agreements between the government and the democratic coordinator are implemented. i believe that if it is desirable, as a result of these agreements, that a recall referendum should take place in the near future, as the european union has requested, as expressed in various statements by the council of ministers at the initiative of the commission, an eu election observation mission should be appointed to accompany the process of ratification and the holding of the recall referendum, which is the institutionally established mechanism.
(es) mr president, as my predecessor, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, has said, this motion for a resolution has the support of three political groups, which are the three largest groups in this house. the motion for a resolution is in line with the statement by the council presidency last february, which called for the agreements between the government and the opposition to be respected. in this respect we find a certain contradiction because the current venezuelan constitution has been drafted by the party that is currently in power and has a large majority. no one was forcing the government to include the recall referendum in that constitution, but it was included. no one forced the government to conclude an agreement with the opposition on 29 may 2003, but it was concluded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament, which has spoken out on other occasions on venezuela, at this time, in line with the declaration of the council presidency and in view of the events, would like to recall that constitutional rights can be violated by violation of substantial forms and we believe that in this case there is a violation of substantial forms, since by alleging certain "coincidences" in the handwriting hundreds of thousands of signatures have been cancelled. other procedures could have been used, if those signatures were deemed not to be correct, a sampling procedure could have been used, for example, to check whether, indeed, those hundreds of thousands of signatures were correct. but what we cannot do is to annul them in this way without taking any account of the fact that more than the millions of signatures needed for the recall referendum have been collected. at the moment we are faced with a decision by the national electoral council, supported by the government, which seeks to deprive venezuelan citizens of a constitutional right recognized in the constitution of the bolivarian republic of venezuela. i think the resolution is very clear. we're not trying to stir up the spirits, quite the opposite, we're calling for calm. but we are trying to ensure that this process of restoring constitutional normality is carried out in the spirit of the agreement of 29 may 2003. that is to say, it is not a question of one party imposing itself on the other, but it is also not a question of making it impossible to exercise a constitutional right such as the right to ask for the removal of a president. and by doing it in the way that the national electoral council has done it, by cancelling signatures en masse, it makes that exercise impossible. at this moment it is clear that the carter centre for democracy and the organization of american states are negotiating with the venezuelan government and the opposition to find a solution to the conflict and we hope that the commission will, as always, work with parliament and the council to reassure the venezuelan people and to make it possible for the venezuelan constitutional process to return to its democratic electoral channels.
mr president, i wish to express my grief, as we all do, at the terrible consequences of the terrorist attack in madrid and to convey our condolences and solidarity to the families of those who died and to the injured and their families. at the same time, i would like to express my deep admiration for the civic and humanitarian behaviour of the people of madrid and for the extraordinary efficiency of all the rescue and aid services provided by the state institutions of the autonomous community and the affected cities and municipalities. the maturity with which society has dealt with us, as it has done in other communities in the face of tragic material catastrophes, confirms the idea of a country situated civically and democratically in the heart of europe. all this happened without any manifestation or declaration of xenophobia, any demonstration against specific religions or countries. all that has happened and the admirable behaviour of the population obliges us to take firm and democratic measures in the union in the fight against terrorism, but it also requires that we radically refuse to install in europe the militaristic manicheanism and the anti-terrorist ideology, that we radically refuse to let this ideology govern our societies.
commission. – madam president, this is not the first time that this house has been asked to give its attention to this important and complex issue. from the very beginning, all those involved have recognised the difficulty of finding the answer to the question in front of us: what is the right balance between security demands and civil liberty? we tackle this against a rather sombre backdrop. just before the weekend, the european council agreed on a strong package of measures to reinforce the anti-terrorism efforts of the european union. i know that parliament will not want to send any equivocal messages about terrorism. at the same time, we all agree that the fight against terrorism cannot and must not be carried out at the expense of the protection of fundamental rights such as privacy. against this background, i would like to invite members to reflect carefully on what this resolution – if adopted – could possibly achieve and to check whether this corresponds to our objectives. i dare to say 'our objectives' because the commission and the parliament can surely agree on what our goals are. firstly, to cooperate to fight the scourge of terrorism without sacrificing fundamental civil rights and liberties. secondly, to free airlines from the threat of being caught between contradictory legal requirements with which they have to comply. thirdly, to make sure that such transfers are made in a clear and secure legal framework. fourthly, to foster a cooperative and balanced relationship with the united states. fifthly, and most importantly, to improve the protection given to air passengers and to their data that are transferred to the united states. for over a year, the commission has been negotiating with the united states with a view to meeting these objectives. i ask you frankly: does the motion for a resolution in front of us pay sufficient attention to the significant progress that has been achieved? the commission certainly wanted more and pressed hard for more over long months of tough negotiations. but, as members of this house know from their day-to-day dealings, the result of negotiations is rarely, if ever, perfect. we must also be honest with ourselves: our own delivery of our high data protection standards is far from being ideal. recent eurobarometer results show worryingly low levels of knowledge by european citizens about their rights and obligations. so let us be cautious before preaching to the rest of the world. the key question today on this file is: can we realistically achieve more? the resolution asks the commission to tell the united states that its concessions are not enough. furthermore, it seeks to open new negotiations with a view to reaching a better solution. the list of demands in the resolution is no doubt a very fine one, but will it take us closer to our objectives? in the light of my experience over the last 12 months i am afraid i have to inform the house that this is pie in the sky. the results of rejecting this package will not be a better package, but no package at all. having no package does not get us one inch closer to our objectives, which i thought we shared. it certainly does not lead to better data protection in the united states. we would be simply throwing away all those hard-won improvements. it certainly does nothing either for future eu-us cooperation. we can only influence the united states if we are credible interlocutors. credible interlocutors deliver results. delivering nothing after a year of negotiations does not meet the credibility test, and believe me, there are voices in washington only too ready to say to secretary ridge 'we told you that negotiating with these people is a waste of time'. there is therefore a real risk that the united states will leave the negotiating table and not return. defenders of the resolution by the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs may say that this is an unlikely disaster scenario and that the commission is just running scare stories to justify its own poor achievements. of course, the proof of the pudding will only be in the eating, but if i were a member of this parliament, i would not bank on it that the aims of the resolution are achievable. please ask yourselves whether it is likely that the united states will suddenly double the amount of change it is prepared to make and do so by june, as the resolution demands? members of this house have had their own contacts with american representatives over the last few months, and i am sure you have formed your own views about their openness to our arguments. the resolution and its defenders also point to obtaining passengers' consent to the transfer as the 'magic' solution while we skilfully negotiate a new and better deal. let me repeat the commission's full and active support for measures that ensure that passengers are fully and accurately informed and, where possible, give their agreement. but that should be in addition to – not instead of – the actions we have taken to improve protection in the united states. over the last year, parliament has been an extremely active and outspoken participant in this debate. in doing so, it has undoubtedly strengthened the commission's position in its negotiations with the united states. clearly, parliament should not be silent at this stage. i was indeed expecting some further expressions of concern and constructive criticism. of course nobody is asking parliament to say that it approves of and espouses the american system and approach. indeed, the commission itself does not espouse the american approach part and parcel, nor will we stop trying to achieve improvements in it. indeed, i am currently still in touch with the american authorities with a view to firming up and clarifying their commitments regarding the conditions under which they will be able to forward passenger data to third-country authorities. so, we are still working to improve the situation even further – and will continue to do so – before the commission takes its final decision on an adequacy finding. it is one thing to say that what is on offer is not perfect, and quite another to seek its complete derailment – as the resolution as it stands does. that is why i would ask you to reject this motion for a resolution. to conclude, i shall summarise the choice before parliament. rejection of the motion will allow the commission's proposed package – with the improvements in data protection that we negotiated with the united states – to go ahead. among these major improvements there are annual joint reviews to enable us to keep a close eye on things, and a clear cut-off date after three and a half years. it would also end legal insecurity and remove threats of sanctions for the airlines. i have no doubt there would be positive spin-offs for eu-us cooperation. that is the first choice. the second choice is adoption of the motion for a resolution, which would mean foregoing those advantages in return for a declaration of principle and a wish list that – i am sorry to say – cannot realistically be delivered.
(es) madam president, we are again in this house debating a subject which we are all very familiar with. since the beginning of the transfer of passenger data to the us authorities more than a year ago, with the united states as the final destination or transit country, parliament has expressed considerable concern about the totally irregular situation in which these transfers were and are still being made. today, however, we are again debating this question, but in somewhat different circumstances. firstly, because we already have a commission decision in which it qualifies as adequate the level of protection that the united states guarantees to the data transmitted to them, and secondly because the recent and tragic attacks of 11 march in madrid - a continuation of those of 11 september - force us all to reflect and to affirm that only through international cooperation can we defeat a brutal and ruthless enemy that attacks free and democratic societies such as ours. my group is not entirely satisfied with the decision which the commission has presented to us. it even shares some of the criticisms contained in the rapporteur's report. but what do we do? back to square one? wait another year? are we concerned with maximising legal guarantees while terrorists move freely from one continent to another and mercilessly murder thousands of people who, by the way, have no right to defend themselves? let's face it, though. we accept this new legal framework for cooperation with the united states with reservations. let's put it to a test period and, if necessary, review it afterwards. at this point, the citizens, terrified by such brutality, would not understand another option. the negotiations between the community and the us authorities have resulted in agreements whose importance should not be underestimated: we have succeeded in reducing the data that will be transmitted, limiting the purposes for which they will be collected, limiting the time they will be stored and guaranteeing our citizens instruments enabling them to rectify those data and to make claims in the event of misuse. the agreement could also be revised after a period of three and a half years in the light of the results obtained. i do not mean to say that the agreement reached is optimal in all its aspects, but it is satisfactory in some of them. on the other hand, as i have already said, circumstances have changed, and changed tragically. the european union - and this was demonstrated by the european council just held - has fully and firmly declared war on terrorism. and effective action in this direction requires the promotion of cooperation and coordination within the european union, between the police and judicial authorities of the member states and between the bodies which the european union has set up for this purpose - among which i would highlight europol and eurojust - but also through cooperation with third countries and there is no doubt that we share with the united states the common objective and the firm determination to defeat the terrorist lacquer. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the agreement we are discussing today, which has been the subject of an overly critical report by the rapporteur, strikes a reasonable balance between the necessary application of security measures and the guarantee of civil rights, and provides citizens with the level of protection and legal certainty that we would lack if we decided to refer the decision back to the commission, leaving open a new period of legal vacuum.
commission. – mr president, i should like to thank members of parliament for their various comments. i will reply briefly to some of the points, starting with the mr watson's remarks. he is no longer in the chamber, but no doubt he will take cognisance of the report of proceedings for this sitting. mr watson said that the article 29 working party has rejected the adequacy finding, which the commission has proposed. that is perfectly true. in reply i would say that the article 31 committee has approved the commission's findings by a qualified majority – in fact, 13 voted in favour and 2 against. the two member states which voted against were luxembourg and italy. my second remark addresses comments made by mrs boogerd-quaak and mrs paciotti on requests for access to own data. the american commitments cover access in what the commission calls a satisfactory way. we must verify that the commitments are complied with in practice and there are means to monitor this. furthermore, the joint review and the possibility for european data protection commissioners to intercede would see to that. mrs paciotti also mentioned international agreement in the longer term. the commission is seeking a multilateral solution through the icao but that, as mrs paciotti will agree, will take time. i return to mrs boogerd-quaak's comment on an international agreement that would legalise the pull system. mr pirker also remarked on that. i should like to stress here that the commission is committed to a switch from pull to push and, although that is principally a matter for airlines, it is preparing actions which will facilitate that switch and make it possible in the coming months. it is necessary to provide a legal basis for pull until the push system is in place. nonetheless, this provision of the international agreement must not become an excuse for the introduction of push to be delayed. mr cappato said that the commission should drop its initiative for a european policy on pnr. the fight against terrorism is a global one. the european union cannot afford not to develop its own policy in that area, which is considered to be an important contribution to the global fight against terrorism and organised crime. last thursday the european council welcomed the commission's intention to make a proposal by the middle of this year. it called on the council to act on this before the end of the year. the commission will, of course, take care that its proposal is fully respectful of civil liberties in general and data privacy rules in particular. mr cappato also criticised the non-application of the law. i take it that remark and criticism are addressed to the data protection authorities in the member states. as mr cappato and other members will realise, the data-protection directive is 'policed' by member states and not by the commission. mrs swiebel referred to article 300 of the treaty, concerning the international agreement. the commission does not see the need to consult the european court of justice on the legality of the agreement or the adequacy finding. mr santini and others asked about passengers being informed – or not – about their rights. the obligation to inform passengers rests with the data controller – in this case, initially the airlines, subsequently the united states government. the us undertakings contain a clear commitment in that regard. the commission is working with the airlines and the travel industry to ensure that citizens have access to full and accurate information that they should receive at the appropriate time, ideally before they purchase their tickets. lastly – and in general terms – i repeat what i said earlier, that the commission does not espouse or approve of the us approach, but it shares some of the views about its effectiveness. however, we have to be realistic and we should take the improvements that are now on offer. thus, it is not that we espouse the american approach, it is just that the commission is at pains to stress that this is the best possible solution and that no other is on offer.
- thank you very much, mr bolkestein. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the report (a5-0135/2004) by mr bösch, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud - annual report 2002 (com (2003) 445 - c5-0593/2003 - 2003/2248 (ini)).
the rapporteur. ■es) mr president, mr commissioner - to whom i extend my warm welcome - ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 the european parliament adopted at first reading the commission's proposal on minimum safety and health requirements for workers exposed to the risks arising from physical agents. the different characteristics of the four physical agents - noise, vibration, optical radiation and electromagnetic fields - led the council in 1999 to take a new approach, advocating specific directives. after the vibration and noise directives, today we are dealing with the directive on minimum health and safety requirements for workers exposed to the risks arising from exposure to electromagnetic fields. this proposal is part of the package of rules designed to promote the improvement of the working environment, because, according to article 31 of the charter of fundamental rights, entitled 'fair and equitable working conditions', every worker has the right to work in conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. at the outset, we should make it clear that the new directive is extremely careful about the possible socioeconomic impact, because it does not impose new obligations that were not already in the framework directive, but only specifies them. the directive only addresses harmful effects in the short and medium term and not harmful effects in the long term due to lack of sound scientific data. it does not address the risks arising from contact with live conductors. the protection is in this case in the framework directive. the proposal does not provide for exceptions in its scope, as this would constitute discrimination, as provided for in article 13 of the ec treaty and article 20 of the charter of fundamental rights. the directive is also a health and safety directive which aims to eliminate the risk at its source, although a specific directive - for example, 93/42/eec - requires the manufacturer to comply with essential requirements. the use may be incorrect and therefore the sources of risk may be multiple or varied. the commission's proposal is based on two concepts. the first is the exposure limit value above which work is not permitted. the second is the action value which gives rise to an action in the terms of the proposal. the contributions made by this parliament are mainly concerned with the obligations of employers in terms of assessment, measurement of the levels of electromagnetic fields to which workers are exposed, with the consultation and participation of workers and also with training and information, and also with a detailed specification of the content and monitoring of this light - article 8 - in order to prevent and diagnose, as quickly as possible, any adverse effects on health due to exposure to electromagnetic fields. when exposure exceeding the limit values is detected, a medical examination is required and, if health damage is detected due to exposure, a new risk assessment is mandatory. effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties are provided for in accordance with national legislation - obviously - in the event of infringement. if this report is adopted and the council accepts the parliament's amendments, the directive will be the result of a form of social dialogue, a political dialogue, in this case, because of the shared commitment of the ppe-de group and the pse parliamentary group, which, in the committee on employment and social affairs, understood that, through this directive, we could improve the working environment of european workers. the initial proposal was joined by mr crowley of the uen group. as rapporteur, i would like to thank him and all the other colleagues for their contributions and, most especially, the coordinator of the socialist group in the committee on employment, mr stephen hughes. without this agreement the directive would not be possible. if we get the necessary votes tomorrow, we shall have a directive, the fruit of the dialogue between the two political groups in this house, to improve the living conditions of workers, as their dignity as persons demands.
commission. mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to take part in this debate and, looking at the speaking list, i am sure it will have been worth waiting for! it is very important for us to have the opportunity once again to discuss the european union's relations with latin america, and i am particularly pleased that we have the views of two very distinguished colleagues who know so much about the subject and who have committed themselves so enthusiastically and knowledgeably to strengthening our relations over the last few years. the agreements which we are discussing today mark an extremely important step forward in our relations with central america and with the andean community. i am therefore grateful for the strong support that the european parliament gave to them. as the house knows, the commitment to negotiate new political dialogue and cooperation agreements with each region was made at the madrid eu-latin america and caribbean summit in 2002. the european union has delivered on this commitment. negotiations were successfully and rapidly concluded after just two rounds in october 2003, and both agreements were signed on 15 december in rome. these new agreements are ambitious. first of all, they institutionalise and strengthen the political dialogue: the san jose dialogue with central america that was initiated in 1984 and the ministerial political dialogue conducted with the andean community that goes back to the 1996 rome declaration. secondly, they expand the scope of both the political dialogue and the european union's existing cooperation with the two regions, for example, by including some new areas such as migration, conflict prevention, good governance and counter-terrorism activities. obviously, having negotiated these agreements as rapidly as possible is not enough. we must also make sure that they enter into force quickly and i hope that ratification procedures on both sides will be speedy. this is important, because the new areas addressed by the agreements reflect the very real concerns of both regions. at the european union-latin america and caribbean summit in madrid it was agreed that the conditions were not right to launch negotiations for association agreements. these political dialogue and cooperation agreements were seen as an intermediate step: the aim of the agreements is to create the conditions which would allow the negotiation of association agreements, including free trade agreements, in the future. the heads of state and government also defined what the main requirements were for advancing towards an association agreement, notably the achievement of deeper regional integration and the completion of the doha round. i would like to take this opportunity to underline the importance of the recently negotiated agreements as an instrument towards our common goal of negotiating association agreements with these regions in the future. we are now two years beyond one summit, on the eve of another – the guadalajara summit – and we must re-assess our relationship with these regions. there are many questions we should ask ourselves. to what extent are the conditions we set out in madrid still valid in the light of recent developments? how should the absence of substantial progress in the multilateral trade negotiations affect our relations with these regions? how can we ensure that we do not inadvertently in any way undermine our principal trade objective of promoting multilateral agreements and completing the doha development round? otherwise, would we not risk the opening of such negotiations becoming a mere political gesture, as we want agreements with content that go beyond what can be agreed at multilateral level? is there an acceptable political formula to cover all these objectives? regional integration remains of key importance: it can contribute to fostering political stability, economic and social development and social cohesion within each sub-region. the commission considers that further progress towards deepening integration is a sign of political and economic maturity. how can we measure progress in regional integration? i believe the essential elements for measuring progress revolve around three fundamental elements: a fully operational institutional framework, the existence of a customs union and the reduction of obstacles to intra-regional trade. the next joint step should be to evaluate progress achieved by both regions with a view to preparing the ground for the opening of negotiations. i would underline that this process should be carried out in an objective manner and we should not set impossible standards that might only lead to frustration among our counterparts. the commission has always supported regional integration. we are convinced that it should continue to do so. this support is not only one of words: under our regional programme for central america, the commission has approved one project in support of the central american customs union worth eur 8 million in 2001 and a second one in support of the regional integration institutions and the involvement of civil society in the process of regional integration worth eur 15 million in 2003. a further project in support of the development and implementation of common policies to the value of eur 10 million is currently under preparation. in the andean community, projects on statistics, customs, competition and trade-related technical assistance, together worth more than eur 15 million, are being implemented and there are plans to strengthen this form of cooperation in the forthcoming revision of the regional strategy paper, adding another eur 4 million to the economic regional integration objective. central america, the andean community and latin america as a whole are not suffering from a lack of interest from our side. in the current financial perspectives from 2000 to 2006, funds for latin america are about 20% higher than in the former financial perspective. the community budget spends about eur 0.15 per capita in asia, while three times that much per capita is spent in latin america. perhaps of the greatest significance, we are now actually spending the money we commit. in 2003, 100% of the payments, as well as 100% of commitments, were used. i want to emphasise once again that relations with latin america are a geostrategic priority for the european union. i have been particularly pleased in recent weeks to be able to discuss our relationship with representatives of mercosur, with all the foreign ministers of the andean community and with representatives of central america. i very much hope that we will be able to have a successful summit to follow up the one in madrid, which will focus on regional integration and social inclusion. i also very much hope that the summit in guadalajara will be able to see a further development in our relations with the two regions with which we have only recently negotiated sensible agreements. (applause)
the rapporteur. i am glad to have heard the commissioner's words. they clearly show concern and a sense of priority, and i would like to tell you that the assessment of this political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and the central american region will depend fundamentally on one factor, and that factor will be what perspective this period opens up, which the commissioner has described as a transitional period. from our point of view, and on the basis of the resolution of this parliament of 15 november 2001, this type of political and cooperation agreement must be the door to the preparation of association agreements including a free trade agreement, in accordance with the strong aspirations of our central american partners and, in my view, fully in line with the political, economic and commercial interests of the european union. in other words, the decisive factor will be whether a period of negotiations for an association agreement with the central american countries, including those of the andean community, with similar characteristics, mutatis mutandis, to those with mexico and chile, and the one currently being negotiated with mercosur, is actually opened as a prelude to a more general strategic perspective which should lead to a global interregional agreement and the creation of a euro-latin american free trade area. the third summit in may will now be an opportunity to demonstrate a sense of anticipation and foresight by opening up this perspective in an explicit way. there are changes in the region, a region - we all know - plagued by difficult, serious structural and cyclical situations, but there are certainly encouraging signs; there is a shared will on the part of the presidents of the region to make pragmatic progress in the field of economic integration; there is a new stage of the central american bank for economic integration, which is very promising from my point of view; there are open prospects for reform of the institutions of integration, in particular reforms with a certain depth of the central american parliament and, in this sense, the voice, the presence of the european union must help to show clearly that we do not only do diplomacy when there are situations of conflict, but that with the same commitment, with the priority of helping decisively the peace processes in the region, we continue with determination and tenacity in the perspective of improving the political and economic situation, in a region so devastated by the problems of the present and the history of the region itself. i would like, commissioner, that the may summit in guadalajara should clearly open a stage in which the implementation of this agreement is carried out with the greatest possible will, which also marks the maintenance of the trade facilities enjoyed by the countries of this region, within the system of generalized preferences and the special drug regime, and, above all, that a concrete perspective of compromise is opened up in the perspective of negotiating a real association agreement. and as we speak of the guadalajara summit, i would like to quote mr patten specifically on a subject which is not strictly central american, but which could be a success story of the summit in a specific field: there are several black holes in the current world situation, and one of them is called haiti. and the commitment to intensive and long-term aid from the european union, in agreement with the partners in latin america and in perfect agreement with caricom, the oas and the united nations, could be - i believe - a success story of the guadalajara summit, which will be fixed if the events are followed, afterwards, in a tenacious and long-term way by good intentions.
the rapporteur. {es) mr president, i would first of all like to thank commissioner patten for the efforts he has made, as far as i know, to be present at this debate, despite the difficulties on the agenda. i would also like to congratulate the commission, to remove any doubt, on its diligence in presenting the guidelines for the conclusion of these political dialogue and cooperation agreements - and i am sure mr patten will recall the contacts we had, also with mr lamy, prior to the madrid summit. i would also like to congratulate the commission on the diligence, efficiency and speed with which it negotiated these agreements, which, as mr obiols i germà has just said, are for parliament precisely the prelude to association agreements. it is precisely the discussion in the committee on foreign affairs and the unanimous vote on these two agreements - which is not very common - and the debate in the house today and the subsequent vote that marks the end of a stage and the beginning of a new one, which in my view will be marked by the next guadalajara summit. as mr patten knows better than anyone else, we live in a complex world, where the european union has responsibilities that arise both internally, such as the birth of the constitution or enlargement, and also external responsibilities: the new relationship with russia, the problems we still have in the balkans, the responsibilities in central asia, with iran, iraq and afghanistan, the problem of the middle east, the redesign of new relations with the united states, in short, mr president, the world is large and latin america is only one part, but i think it is very satisfactory to recognize, as the commissioner has done, that latin america remains a priority area for the european union, among other things because we have common values and a shared history. on 19 march a large delegation of members of this parliament met with representatives of the latin american parliament and its president, with representatives of the andean parliament and its president, with representatives of the central american parliament and its president and with representatives of the mercosur parliamentary committee and its president. in short, a meeting of parliamentarians representing more than a billion citizens of europe and latin america. the meeting set out conclusions on how to pave the way towards the bi-regional strategic partnership established at the previous two summits. the members who attended it - mr obiols was there and other members of this house who are present in this debate - concluded that a large catalogue of statements and pronouncements was not needed, but that it was sufficient, in order to achieve this bi-regional strategic partnership, simply a series of concrete proposals, which we set out in a decalogue. the decalogue is based on three main areas. in the field of political will and dialogue, because - let us not be mistaken - it is political will that has moved these relations in recent years, and that is why we are proposing the creation of a euro-latin american parliamentary assembly, somewhat similar to the assembly that has emerged in the field of euro-mediterranean relations. we are proposing a renewal and updating of the ministerial political dialogue, a concertation in international forums and within the united nations system between the positions of europeans and latin americans and also the signing of a euro-latin american charter for peace and security, with the aim of creating a forum where we can seriously address questions of security and defence, which, at present, do not have a specific forum. and above all, we are proposing a renewal of the bi-regional political agenda to enable discussion of issues such as those relating to the terrorist phenomenon, the issue of reform of the united nations system, threats to governance, the review in the field of the fight against poverty and many other initiatives. but, commissioner, political dialogue, however flourishing it may be, will eventually wither and be reduced to nothing if we do not turn from words to deeds. and it is clear that one very clear area in which we can move from words to deeds is in the area of commercial relations. that is why we are proposing that at the guadalajara summit specific dates be set for the association with the andean and central american countries, without subjecting them to discriminatory conditions which have not been imposed on other countries or groups of countries, and here there is a debate - you have referred to integration - as to whether integration must be a precondition or whether it is a consequence of the association. this parliament understands that progress must indeed be made on the road to integration, but integration may well be a consequence of association agreements. we also understand and share your wish that the negotiation of a balanced agreement with mercosur can be completed before the end of this year and this parliament also understands that, within the respect of the bilateral and regional agreements that have already been negotiated or are being negotiated, we should promote a kind of ftaa with a soul, a european one, in which we give an institutional dimension and a full geographical coverage to the relations between the european union and latin america. and we also understand, commissioner, that we must have a cooperation policy which can, in some way, adapt to this new concept, to this new notion of partnership. in this respect - you know what the parliament's position is - parliament has insisted on a different legal framework and we also believe that we must promote a whole range of policies in the fields of education, culture, vocational training and scientific and technological cooperation. you know, commissioner, that parliament has proposed the creation of a bi-regional solidarity fund, an initiative in which we do not want to create additional bureaucratic structures. we believe that it should be interpreted with flexibility and incorporated into the commission's initiatives, but we also believe that this initiative should aim to take advantage of the financial resources available from both the european investment bank and the inter-american development bank. finally, commissioner, i would like to say that, as you can see, there is a great deal of ambition in the proposals of the parliaments. we hope that this ambition can be shared by the member states and the commission in the communication it is preparing, so that a clear and well-defined message can be sent about europe's new commitment to latin america. and i would like to say to him that, in order for that message to be effective and to have a multiplier effect, it must be restored as soon as possible - and i am making that provision on behalf of my political group - so that it can consolidate that strategic alliance and that harmonious tandem between the european parliament and the commission, which is at the origin of so much progress between the european union and latin america. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (es) mr president, thank you to the commissioner for his words to us, which open up more interesting perspectives for the future of relations between the european union and latin america. that is why it is perhaps interesting to give a brief history of what this relationship has been like over the past few years. from a virtual absence on the agenda during the 1970s, it was deepened in the following decade, coinciding with the disappearance of dictatorships and the spread of democracy. this was the birth of the first generation of agreements and the increase in the economic items that improved cooperation. the next decade - the 1990s - saw the birth of the third generation of agreements, with the inclusion of conditionality clauses, and the support and promotion of peace processes. these more committed policies gave great visibility to the european union, which ended the century with the negotiation of an association agreement with mexico, which marked a milestone in the policy of the european union. everything seemed to indicate that this would continue, but in the current five-year period the partnership has only extended to chile. the ambition for a new strategy seems to be paralysed, and this coincides curiously with the enlargement of the union. the united states is also expanding and continuing bilateral negotiations aimed at consolidating its position in the region - which is not new, by the way - with the same countries from which the european union previously demanded the signing of a hypothetical association agreement as a condition for regional integration. two very different visions. in a few months' time the heads of state and government of the subcontinent and the european union will meet in mexico. this summit is a first opportunity, and the commissioner referred to it. the idea of this meeting is magnificent, provided that something more than a list of good intentions emerges from this summit. perhaps the commissioner can give us more details so that we can get a better idea of the agenda. recently, as has already been said, the city of puebla hosted the meeting of european parliamentarians with the parliaments of latin american political integration. the debate has resulted in a number of agreements and objectives which are set out in the final document and which can be summarised as greater bi-regional cooperation, greater integration, deepening of parliamentary dialogue and an agenda for partnership. the agreements we are discussing today are - no doubt - more ambitious than those signed in 1993. we hope that they will come into force within a more reasonable time. i would personally like to be optimistic and hope that these agreements will be a valid instrument for moving the partnership forward. it is true that current trade is very modest - and this is reflected in the itre commission text - even with the facilities afforded by the generalised system of preferences, and, moreover, these exports, which are not very diversified, are constantly subject to price cuts on the international market. but a partnership is more than a trade agreement, more than the development of an economic policy, more than a development cooperation project: in times like the present, in an age like the one we are living in, in which nothing escapes globalisation - not even terrorism - partnership agreements must also be seen as instruments for collective security. we are talking about countries in difficulty, with poverty levels so high that it can become a threat to internal peace, but which, at the same time, possess extraordinary potential, which are culturally close to us and which see us as a paradigm of opportunity. finally, mr president, since the texts of the agreements cannot be amended, this debate should at least serve to take account of parliament's opinion if it is finally decided to take a more committed step and, as has been done with the countries of the southern mediterranean, to make progress in association with the andean and central american countries and - it is good to recall this - with the mercosur countries.
(es) mr president, mr patten has defined these agreements in two words: 'strategy' and 'transitional'. i should like to thank you for your frankness, because in a way the two concepts are contradictory. the debate on the political dialogue and cooperation agreements between the european union and central america and the andean community is a good example of the current state of our relations with these countries, which i would say, apart from the words you have used, is currently unsatisfactory. this is a political dialogue and cooperation agreement, but we are not making any progress in our trade relations. indeed, in recent years our relations with these parts of the world have not progressed as this parliament would have wished. the crisis in the andean countries as a whole and in each of them has not facilitated the intensification of these relations. colombia, venezuela, ecuador, peru and bolivia are going through very difficult times which have impeded the processes of their own subregional integration, which has not facilitated an advance in our relations with them. the same applies to central america, where large sections of the population, especially young people, are marginalized and increasingly involved in crime as a result of their own social marginalization, which is becoming a pressing problem for these small central american states. i hope that, when it is signed, if the forecasts are met, the agreement with mercosur will be added to those already in force with chile and mexico and that these two regions will be able to benefit from more ambitious agreements, the fruits of which will not be reaped by the present commission and parliament, but by our successors.
(es) mr president, these agreements cannot raise any objections from this parliament, and that is simply because they are two agreements that are absolutely devoid of content. they are two agreements that i could define as heaven: the set of good without any mixture of evil. we are all in favour of cooperation, trade, the development of democracy, etc., but there is nothing concrete in these agreements. there is no financial obligation, no commercial obligation, no institutional obligation. and this is happening at a time when latin america, despite its difficulties, is going through a period of stability, that is to say, there is a certain lack of stability but, despite the poverty - to which my colleague mr van den berg has referred - latin america is today a subcontinent which is generally calm and peaceful. there are no international conflicts, there are some internal conflicts, but they are very small compared to those of the 1980s, and i feel that this is the moment when we can actually help those good people in latin america to get ahead. but that requires, first of all, a specific policy for the region. a policy which i do not know whether it should be strictly free trade or increased trade with them, but which at least helps them to set themselves up as a distinct entity. because the characteristic of latin america at this moment is that it is a very different region from the rest of the world. and in this respect, the commission's refusal to adopt a specific financial regulation for latin america seems to me to be a mistake of enormous proportions. in my view, the important thing from now on, rather than giving recipes or recommendations, is to listen to these countries of latin america and work together to help them develop themselves and, perhaps, if that continent continues to develop, we can find in latin america the necessary counterweight that we are currently lacking in other parts of the globe.
(es) mr president, we are faced with an important question which, like many other questions, is faced with scientific uncertainties. the commission's proposals are erratic. in view of the difficulties in defining animal welfare objectively, the commission has been making proposals using the scoring method. after having tried to implement the unworkable rest centres, he now makes the current proposal which is still astonishing, in my opinion. how can it be claimed that a long stop along the journey would benefit the welfare of the animals? that seems to me to be a great simplification. we can imagine the effects of such a proposal applied to ourselves. let me give you an analogy: if we were to make a long stop on the way to a destination, and not get out of the car, our nervous system would naturally suffer serious damage. if the commission's proposal has serious problems of rigor, it must be admitted that the draft report, despite mr maat's efforts, is nothing more than a 'save your own life' report. first, a distinction is made between animals intended for slaughter and animals intended for fattening. why should animals destined for slaughter have a greater right to welfare than those destined for fattening? i know that according to the treaties, all men are equal, and animals too. the draft report clearly ensures that 40% of dutch pork exports reach their furthest destination: the spanish market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what a great achievement for animal welfare! however, with the nine o'clock rule, pigs from, for example, poland can be slaughtered in some neighbouring countries, leaving the added value there and not exactly favouring the approval of polish slaughterhouses to community rules. i think that this draft report is dealing with a lot of things and not so much with animal welfare. you have to admit, nobody walks animals for pleasure. transporting live animals is expensive and complicated, and is only done when necessary. i think the key to animal welfare is to reduce the total travel time for all animals.
(es) mr president, the objective of this directive, which is the transport of animals in decent conditions, deserves our full support, but we want all the decisions we take in this respect to be based on scientific and technical criteria. on the other hand, we cannot forget that the transport of animals is not exempt from the rules and regulations of the internal market and that we cannot legislate without taking account of economic realities, because the transport of animals is an economic activity for many areas of the european union. we cannot agree with the rapporteur's proposal on the difference between animals for sacrifice and animals for life. dignity in transport affects both equally. as regards transport times, the commission has maintained its desire from the outset to bring the permitted journey times into line with social legislation, but the fact is, commissioner, that the best thing for the welfare of the animal is to arrive at its destination as soon as possible. the resting time of 12 hours for animals in the vehicle is clearly in line with the welfare and dignity of animals in transport, but the limitation of 9 hours in transport is also clearly in line with the principle of the internal market. we therefore think that a coherent and correct solution or proposal would be to establish the obligation of two drivers, with a nine-hour cycle that would allow a short break to be able to continue another nine-hour cycle in transport. finally, i would like to say that we believe that all our efforts in this proposal to ensure the dignity of animals during transport should be focused on the good condition of the vehicles transporting them, on the proper training of the transport staff and, above all, on ensuring that the rules we decide here are complied with throughout the european union.
(es) mr president, at this stage of the debate we have said practically everything for and against the commission's proposal which, as mr jové said - an intervention which i fully support - is being made by the scoring method, without any technical or scientific rigor and without taking into account that we must, according to the legislation in force in the european union, promote the free movement of goods, persons and capital between all the member states of the european union, including the peripheral countries and the candidate countries for accession, which will be full partners from 1 may. it is not a proposal for animal welfare - animal welfare which i fully support. how can it be justified that it applies to slaughter animals and not to other animals? transport and welfare concern all animals, not just those affected by slaughter, or is this a commercial measure, a commercial restriction? what do we want? the peripheral countries should be excluded from the market? what is the technical and scientific basis for this difference to be reflected in european legislation? why do we justify four hours, eight hours, nine hours? why increase the spaces? to raise the costs? who benefits from this? it is extremely harmful to animals, because of the risk of friction, rubbing, injury, fights that can result. what's the justification? this is shown by scientific and technical studies carried out at european level by the transport association. i do not want to talk about the loading, unloading, temperature and so on. this is not justified either, as we are trying to say technically. we are getting support for the amendments we have tabled to give special treatment to peripheral areas - sweden, finland, portugal, italy, spain, etc. - so that we are not left out of the market. with four-hour proposals in my region, i cannot go from one part of my region to another, let alone intervene in other international markets, as is my right.
(es) mr president, i am sorry to say that, as the commission has often surprised us with the high quality of its documents and the time it has spent analysing the facts, this regulation presents numerous technical problems and is scientifically virtually without basis. the evidence for this is that it was originally proposed that animals should descend to rest in open spaces and then it has been shown that this is even harmful to health and contributes to the spread of disease. these are objectionable aspects of a lack of maturity of a document submitted for other reasons. and what are, i think, the main reasons for this document? firstly, there is no scientific certainty and therefore we do not want to wait for it. that is why we have tabled an amendment calling for further research into the acute phase protein, which is what defines animal stress. there is a lack of knowledge on many of the points that are raised and that is why, for example, some measures, such as the excessive separation of animals, will harm them, that is, they will be worse off now than before. secondly, the hidden intention of this document is clearly to create a glass barrier, a new frontier for the countries of the east. we are therefore, on the one hand, integrating them and, on the other, creating an invisible glass barrier, a new customs policy, which will prevent them from crossing europe from one end to the other. this concept is also completely contrary to the general policies we are developing in other areas. but above all, it is intended to bring everyone in the same suit: all animals in the same suit, in the manner of mao's suit. that is why we have also tabled an amendment in which we ask that certain animals be excluded, such as those from restocking, wild animals, circus animals, because what is clear is that a measure for slaughter animals cannot be applied to the rest. it implies impoverishment, it implies chains, and it goes against the ideas of sustainability, which is adapting to reality and making things viable.
(es) mr president, i do not think that the theses advocating the limitation of the transport of animals to a certain number of hours are appropriate. it is fashionable, as the commission has just acknowledged in its first intervention, but it is not based on any proven scientific basis. the economic impact of this issue on regions and even entire countries can be very serious. the current rules are more than sufficient to ensure the welfare of animals during transport. the problem is not the existence of loopholes in the regulations, which are already covered in all the requirements necessary to ensure comfort, but the issue is compliance with them. the direction we should take in new regulation is to improve controls to enforce compliance with the legislation, rather than taking advantage of a debate like this on livestock welfare to introduce strong restrictions on the free movement of goods, restrictions which will not have the same effect in all countries. the amendments tabled by some members of this house clearly represent a step backwards in the achievements of the single market and could lead to the isolation of many regions, especially the peripheral and outermost areas of the european union. the limitation of the duration of journeys without having first carried out a thorough impact study is a measure which i would call clumsy and disproportionate, and even more so if we take into account the damage which is going to be caused. finally, i would like to draw attention to another aspect of this debate which could have quite the opposite effect on those who are persecuted: the reduction of the maximum densities, which are already provided for in the regulations. this measure encourages aggressive behaviour in animals and injuries due to the increased mobility of livestock inside the truck cabins. we should be very careful in our decision on all the points of the regulation which are in the same tone of incongruence, and thus prevent our work from simply translating into greater burdens for the sector and the isolation of economic sectors from entire regions.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious hour in which we must work even harder to break the vicious spiral of violence in the middle east. although sheikh admah yasin was not among our best friends, his murder is a clear and blatant violation of international law. they could have arrested him and tried him. and i would also remind you that we have set up an international criminal court which should play a role, although it is not supported by some states, including israel. we condemn in the strongest terms the murder of the hamas leader and the other palestinians, by direct order of a government, the government of israel. we also strongly condemn the murders and terrorist acts against the civilian population on both sides of the conflict and i think we must appeal to the palestinians not to respond with an infernal increase in terrorist acts and more bloodshed. this murder has already had very serious consequences, including the suspension of the arab league summit. in this respect, i would like to share the strong judgment of simon peres in the knesset when he said that this would have even more serious consequences. we must therefore put an end to this policy of continuing to build the wall inside the occupied territories, ordering extrajudicial executions and, moreover, complying with the withdrawal from gaza to which the present israeli government has clearly committed itself. i would like to say on behalf of my group that the repeated violations of human rights, the failure of the israeli government to comply with the latest un resolutions and, above all, ariel sharon's insistence on resuming executions outside the international legal framework, will leave us no choice but to reiterate the position adopted by this house in the resolution of 10 april 2002 and to ask the commission and the council to strictly apply article 2 of our association agreement. we don't want to get to this, but we think a solemn and stern warning should be given. i would like to make three requests in this connection: the first is to invite civil society, that vibrant israeli society, and all its political parties, to defend the right to their own security and to demand that their government act in accordance with international law. secondly, i would ask the presidency-in-office of the council to invite those member states of the european union which are members of the united nations security council to submit immediately a proposal for the establishment of an international intervention force on the 1967 borders, with a mandate to protect both sides. thirdly, that the commission continue to help, with the help of the european union, to strengthen and reform the palestinian national authority, because we need a strong partner if we are to defend the idea that there must be a palestinian state. i think that this whole process must be framed within the proposals that are being made to solve the problem of the middle east. it is clear that to resolve such a bitter and deep conflict, it is better to propose peace than to start new wars and increase the cycle of violence, and especially in a situation where the stability of those regimes that could help support a process of reform is being broken. we therefore believe that we must re-launch and strengthen a process in which the european union, the united states - which also have a grave responsibility - the arab league and all the countries of the region can continue along the lines of the declaration on the common future for the middle east recently put forward by the german foreign minister, mr fischer, and in which the european union, which is the first partner of the region, as the commissioner has rightly said, could contribute many elements in terms of treaties on peace, security, arms control, disarmament, respect for human rights and democracy and economic cooperation. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the european parliament has contributed its grain of sand by finally creating the athens parliamentary assembly, and we have a duty, not only political but also moral, to continue the european union's efforts in the spirit of the barcelona process to overcome a crisis as acute as it is profound, which calls into question our political, economic and moral responsibility.
(es) mr president, with regard to the mediterranean and the middle east, the council has just recalled - and i quote - 'the union's readiness to work with the united states for cooperation in the region'. it would not be wrong, i say, for washington to do the same and to express its fervent desire to cooperate with the union. in my view, this would imply a subtle, not a blatant and brutal presentation and elaboration of his alleged plan for the democratization of the middle east. it would also imply objectives which are in line with reality and common sense, bearing in mind, in my view, that excessive ambitions, when one speaks of morocco or pakistan, can lead to ridicule at first and then to failure. and above all, i think the united states should accept that it is impossible to deal with a company of this size without making the resolution of the arab-israeli conflict a priority and a prior objective. israel has dismissed the saudi peace proposal, which was backed by the arab league in its entirety in beirut, and has blocked - and let us not be mistaken, i repeat, it has blocked - the road map and has decided to continue its own unilateral course, which includes extrajudicial killings. in my opinion - i repeat - these circumstances, together with the assassination of sheikh yasin, have led to the suspension of the new arab summit, scheduled for yesterday in tunisia, and i believe that no initiative for a so-called 'greater middle east' can succeed in this context. it is enough, as we all know, that king abdullah of jordan, a clearly moderate leader, declared the day before yesterday - and i quote: 'the assassination of yasin, a week before the arab league summit, shows that the israelis wanted the meeting to fail and that the arabs could not relaunch their initiative for dialogue, because israel does not want peace'. if a moderate leader says what i have just read, the union must take note of what this means and act accordingly. and i would like to conclude, mr president, by reminding mr laschet, who has just said - and i am sorry he is not here - that i agree with him when he says that we should talk less about extrajudicial killings, because we all condemn these killings, which are contrary to international law. the problem is that this is precisely what is happening, that we all condemn them but none of us is taking action to prevent them once and for all.
- the next item is the report (a5-0172/2004) by mr goodwill, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases (com (2003) 492 - c5-0397/2003 - 2003/0189 (cod)).
commission. mr president, let me comment on the amendments and come back to the purpose and scope of the proposal, because a significant number of the amendments proposed by parliament, such as better or new definitions of terms, reinforce and clarify the commission's proposal, and the commission can accept many of them to a greater or lesser degree. the commission also welcomes a number of amendments that strengthen the provisions on containment and inspections and the training and certification of personnel involved in containment. it is important to say that this proposal is only a first step. the commission has indicated that it will look at a number of other issues, such as foams. consequently, it cannot accept the amendments on recovery, in particular in relation to foams. further action needs to be based on the careful assessment of the benefits and the costs. neither can the commission accept amendments that would either weaken the proposed inspection system of air conditioning and stationary refrigeration or put in place additional requirements as regards training and certification of personnel, both for the commission and the member states that have not been evaluated. an important part of this proposal is the reporting system, which will enable the commission to check the accuracy of emissions reported to the un convention on climate change and to support possible further action. the commission proposal tries to ensure that the necessary information can be collected without imposing too onerous a reporting system on industry, especially smes. in this context, the commission cannot accept a number of amendments. the commission believes that its proposal on use bans and the phase-out of some products and equipment containing fluorinated gases is based on a careful evaluation of all sectors and is balanced and cost-effective. consequently, it cannot support the amendment that would remove the derogation for small magnesium dye-casters using less than 500 kg per annum. the cost for this limited number of small and medium-sized enterprises to convert to an alternative would be high, hence the exemption. there are two other bans that deserve comment. the deletion of the ban on perfluorinated carbons in fire fighting cannot be justified since, apart from some minor uses, the market has already moved to other alternatives. as regards aerosols containing fluorinated gases, the new definition would exclude a number of novelty aerosols, while the inclusion of pharmaceutical aerosols in the exemption category could be a big loophole. on the sensitive issue of the phase-out of the fluorinated gases in mobile air conditioning in vehicles, the commission notes with interest the amendments to ban fluorinated gases, essentially hfc134a in mobile air conditioning in new vehicle models from 1 january 2009, and that a ban should apply to all new vehicles from 1 january 2014. the commission prefers to remain with its overall position on mobile air conditioning, given other amendments that reject the quota system and ban all fluorinated gases used in mobile air conditioning with a global warming potential over 50, rather than 150, as proposed by the commission. the latter would effectively exclude the use of fluorinated gas mixtures or hfc152a and favour co2 mobile air conditioning systems. finally, as regards the legal basis, the commission is proposing that the regulation be based on article 95 – the internal market – and cannot support amendments that propose that the regulation be based on a dual legal basis. the commission believes that while the environmental objective of reducing emissions of fluorinated gases is paramount, the main thrust of the proposal is more relevant to the functioning of the internal market and article 95. in conclusion, i should like to underline that the commission supports many of the amendments proposed for the first reading, and parliament, by acting so quickly, sends an important message to the council that there is now a need for increased focus on this proposal with the aim of reaching a final conclusion as quickly as possible. i will hand over to the secretariat a list summarising the commission's position on each individual amendment commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. thank you for this debate.
thank you very much, commissioner. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 6.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- the next item is the report (a5-0193/2004) by mr paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on a european strategy for the environment and health.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
- a5-0190/2004 by mr korhola, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation applying the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to the institutions and bodies of the european community;
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want you to know that we support the commission's proposal and we acknowledge your efforts to adapt this convention to the existing mechanisms available to the member states and the community institutions to ensure the legitimate right to information and to environmental justice. as socialists, we advocate access to justice as universally as possible, but always in an organized way. the commission proposes that the most controversial issue, namely how to make access to justice as universal as possible, be handled by the competent bodies, which is a restriction on the universality of the convention. some amendments tabled in the house replace 'authorised entities' with 'ngos', but i do not think that solves the problem. i therefore propose that the line adopted by the committee on the environment, and which i myself proposed, be followed on the basis of a broader concept of a 'authorised entity', whereby any person or group affected by an environmental issue could have a right to justice. this, together with the amendment to the definition of 'public' which we also approved in the committee on the environment, would allow us to guarantee the universality of the law recognised in aarhus and at the same time to organise the system of access to justice in an appropriate way. commissioner, our institutions must be exemplary in the application of these rights. i therefore believe that we have a moral obligation to make the regulation more ambitious than the directive for the member states, and i ask the commission to accept the amendment of the definitions proposed by this parliament, which i hope we will adopt tomorrow.
commission. mr president, i cannot help thinking that this is also a matter of the status of environmental issues. just imagine replacing the words 'environmental legislation' with 'economic legislation' or anything else, and you would consider it absolutely natural that you have access to justice; that you allow these groups access to justice or a say on these issues. most of what we think would come naturally will also have to be introduced for the environmental issues. that is just one reflection. let me begin by commenting firstly on the proposed directive on access to justice. without a common framework with harmonised requirements, there is no means of guaranteeing that the requirements of the århus convention are met throughout the union. we have signed the århus convention and that is the starting point. the commission proposes to give legal standing to recognised environmental organisations. that follows from how environmental issues are defined here: what the århus convention is all about and what access to justice is all about in this field. it is restricted to environmental issues and it is clearly defined. this is fully in line with a convention that gives a prominent position to environmental ngos as advocating the interests of the environment, because on the environment we do not have a vested interest. we will have to heed those voices that take on the concerns of the environment. it is also done with respect for the principle of subsidiarity, as member states are free to provide for access to justice for a larger public. furthermore, it is left largely to member states to develop the details of the framework. much as i respect mrs thors, it is not always the fishermen who represent the environmental concerns when it comes to protecting the baltic sea, so perhaps that is not the best of examples. as regards the amendments put forward, the commission can accept those that reinforce the principles of the proposal, in particular where reference is made to national legislation granting wider access to justice. a considerable number of amendments, however, are not acceptable to the commission. even though i understand and sympathise with your desire to maximise the benefits to the public of this proposal, i consider that amendments which propose expanding legal standing to organisations which are not primarily or regularly working in the field of the environment add requirements which are arbitrary or imprecise. it is also important to provide as much legal clarity as possible. other amendments weaken the scope of the proposal as they modify procedural aspects, such as the request for internal review which, in the commission’s view, is important in order to enable the administration to reassess its action before transferring the case to the courts. in our view, the proposal is well balanced. it takes on board the obligations arising from the århus convention, whilst leaving to the member states the necessary degree of flexibility which will enable them to implement the legislation effectively. i turn to the proposal for a regulation implementing århus within the institutions. i would like to emphasise that our aim is the full application of the three pillars of the århus convention at community level. these requirements proposed under the regulation cover not only community institutions but all bodies that exercise public functions under the treaties, also comprising the agencies, offices or bodies such as the european investment bank, to the extent that their activities are relevant to environmental matters as dealt with by the convention. here again, the commission’s proposal has made use of the flexibility parties are allowed under the århus convention, notably in terms of organising the public participation processes and establishing criteria for access to justice in case of impairments of environmental law. while keeping in line with the århus convention, it strived to interfere as little as possible with rules and procedures already established and operating. in particular, interference with the treaty provisions as regards access to the european court of justice for individuals needs to be avoided. in this vein, the commission considers as problematic those amendments that would aim to deviate from the regime of exceptions set up under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on access to documents. neither can the commission accept amendments that result in being overly prescriptive on the arrangements for public participation and in enlarging the access to justice provisions to complaints by individual members of the public. those amendments risk interfering with the provisions of the ec treaty in this respect. i will hand over to the secretariat the commission’s position on specific amendments commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. once again, i thank you for the debate.
- mrs thors, you have asked to speak for clarification?
- mrs thors, i really think you're trying to reopen the negotiations. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0139/2004) by mr manders, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint text for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (pe-cons 3622/2004 - c5-0079/2004 - 2002/0021 (cod)).
(es) mr president, my view, which cannot be less, is closer to that of mrs gebhardt, who has spoken on behalf of the socialist group. this directive is a step forward in principle, but not in practice, because it has a three-year deadline for implementation by the member states, the possibility of examining a compulsory insurance system is left for a six-year period and there are provisions which will not come into force for nine or ten years. this, at a time when all kinds of accidents of this kind are continually occurring. in particular, in the area of liability caused by ships and so on, there are international conventions which limit the liability of shipowners. so, from a practical point of view, the citizens of the community will not notice the difference now or for many years to come. it is a principle - parliament has been very cautious in accepting it in order to maintain the commitment between the states - but we must be absolutely realistic: there is no real progress here. accidents will continue to occur, causing immeasurable damage which is not insured, there is no way of imposing liability on shipowners or other risk-creating sectors and therefore it could be the case that a region, like mine, which lives exclusively from the beaches, would be hit by an oil tide which ruins the entire activity of the region without any possibility of compensation or insurance coverage. this is the reality. that does not prevent this parliament, as always, from making use of its responsibility - which seems excessive, because it seems that this parliament, since it has had codecision, has been characterized by a high degree of responsibility - from preferring to go through the motions, accepting the compromise - i would not call it a compromise, but rather a dictate - imposed by the council and the commission and, in order for the proposal for a directive to go ahead, accepting those conditions. in that job mr. manders has done all he can. we are left with only a few verbal commitments. but let us not call ourselves a fraud, let us not call our electorate a fraud: this is only the beginning. i hope that the commission will not wait for these long deadlines of three, six, nine and ten years, but that in a short time - probably as a result of another major accident, which will cause enormous damage anywhere in the european union, whether in the baltic sea, the mediterranean, the north sea or elsewhere - it will be forced to submit to us, and do so soon, a proposal that will change this and allow us to go ahead with much more precise regulation. another question to be clarified is whether the appropriate instrument is a directive or whether a regulation would be necessary to impose such rules on a mandatory basis, without waiting for the states to take on their responsibilities towards their citizens in a gradual manner.
commission. mr president, i hope we can allow ourselves to feel proud today. this issue has been with us and with those before us for many years. it is a complicated and politically sensitive issue. we have managed to establish the platform and although we have all said that it is a first step, it is a very important first step. it also establishes the attitude and re-establishes the polluter pays principle. we can only build on that and take it further, which is why it is such an important first step. i wanted to answer mrs schörling directly because the commission statement about looking at the financial security again in 2006 is not formally legally binding, but you might call it politically binding. i hope that means as much as if it had been legally binding. it is an obligation and a commitment from the commission so, of course, we will have to come back on this. i am sure we have only seen the beginning. it is so important, for the reasons you have all mentioned. thank you again, and all right, i will come for a drink! (applause)
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0177/2004) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to mention the definition of waste. there is no specific definition of waste from extractive industries in this proposal, but the general definition given for waste in the framework directive 75/442/eec if waste is recovered. this does not prevent such waste from being reused for a useful purpose, for example in building materials. it's important to clarify that. i would like to give the commission's reaction to important amendments. the commission can accept 32 amendments in their entirety and 26 amendments in part or in principle. the amendments relating to the scope of the proposal are of course particularly important. amendment no 15 on article 2 (3) proposes that materials such as uncontaminated feedstock and waste from exploration should be subject to the limited requirements of this article. the commission can support this approach as it increases legal certainty and also improves environmental security measures. we also support the amendment that inert waste facilities should also be covered by the provisions on major accidents. amendment no 15 proposes that the limited requirements of article 2 (3) should cover non-hazardous waste. that part of amendment no 15 would have a significant impact on the overall impact of the proposal and the commission cannot accept it. for other reasons, the commission cannot support the amendments which impose certain measures on exhausted mine shafts which have been left to be filled with water. we believe that this issue should be resolved in the context of the water framework directive. it is necessary to deal with the heavy burden of the past caused by closed and abandoned waste facilities. the commission has proposed an exchange of information on methods for the detection and remediation of such installations. amendment no 71 would make these data mandatory at eu level. the development of inventories to identify the worst sources of pollution is a major step towards solving this problem. the commission can support such a strategy. however, decisions on the actual remediation should be left to the member states. another issue is the requirement for financial guarantees to cover costs if the operators can no longer be held accountable. the commission can support the clarifications made in amendments nos 66 and 67, but we cannot accept the part of amendment no 66 which provides that such procedures must be approved by the commission, as this is a matter for the member states. we cannot accept amendments concerning the design of these guarantees either, since the text should retain the present flexibility. a transitional period shall be granted to waste facilities which have obtained authorisation before the entry into force of this directive. amendment no 74 includes an attempt to introduce certain requirements during that period, including references to the water framework directive. the commission considers this unnecessary as both the provisions of eu water legislation and the general requirements of the waste framework directive are applicable. moreover, the idea behind the transitional period should not be undermined. amendments nos 29 and 35 emphasise the need for proper management of the closure and after-treatment of waste facilities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. amendments nos 32 and 57 establish a direct link with the objectives of the water framework directive and amendment no 46 establishes a link with protected areas. finally, amendment no 7 also highlights the function of this directive in the context of eu development aid. the commission supports these amendments, which pursue the same objectives as the commission proposal and increase consistency with other important eu legislation. i intend to forward to the secretariat a complete list of the commission's positions on the amendments. commission position on parliament's amendment: see annex. and i thank you for this first debate on this important proposal which will increase the visibility of both these problems and the proposals for solutions that we have. as many members have said, we need to act because this is much more common than we think, including the recurring accidents that happen in europe and around the world. we need to address the problem.
- thank you very much, mrs wallström. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.16 p.m.)
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all, as a citizen of madrid and as the spokesman for my fellow citizens in this chamber, express my gratitude for the support, solidarity and condolences received, not only in europe but throughout the world. i would like to address myself specifically to president cox because the institutional declaration he made on behalf of parliament had a huge impact in madrid and in spain and was in keeping with the circumstances, with the dramatic moments we are living through. we have shown that we are building europe by the minutes of silence which all europeans observed after the tragic events in madrid. the taoiseach - who unfortunately shares with me and others a long experience of fighting terrorism - will allow me to say that, in addition to thanking for these gestures - and this applies on both sides of the atlantic - we must not confuse stoicism and resistance with cowardice and appeasement; that terrorism is not fought only with tanks, planes and invasions; it is fought with dignity, with resistance and also with the necessary coordination of the intelligence services and with legislation such as we are trying to develop in the european union after 11 september. in this connection, i have to say to the council that parliament has worked very quickly and that the council has in this case taken a step forward with the appointment of mr de vries - and i share the criticism of my colleague mr poettering in relation to the circumstances of this appointment - but it is worth noting that at this moment five community countries have still not transposed the arrest warrant into their national legislation and that we are still having problems in applying, in particular, measures to combat money laundering. it shows that we are not serious about fighting terrorism and that we have to take very important steps, because we are in solidarity but we are all threatened. that said, mr president, i would like to move on to the second point, which is the constitution. i think we should welcome the step forward taken by the irish presidency and i think the announcement of the candidate for the presidency of the spanish government, mr zapatero, was an important step in unlocking this situation. he has in fact said that the spanish people, the spanish government, believe that we must be back in europe and, moreover, along the lines that governments of my political colour have always followed. in this connection, i would like to point out something very important: qualified majority voting and co-decision, which are fundamental to european democracy. i would also like to ask the president of the commission to allow me to address him, because the circumstances in which he is now finds himself must lead us to reflect on an important issue, namely the role of the commission. at the moment, president prodi is running the risk, because he has very good commissioners, of being almost alone as in the medusa raft at the end of the legislature. we already have at least three or four commissioners returning to their countries - which shows that there is life after the european union - but this is raising a major problem: we cannot continue with a situation where we find ourselves with an interim which can last for almost ten months. that's not sustainable. i would also point out that the greek commissioner, mr dimas, - and i do not think it is his responsibility - spoke in the house before the hearing in the committee. we must all try to take care of the ways to respect them, that is essential in a democracy. in connection with the constitution, may i also, mr president, thank the former mayor of rome, mr rutelli, for the gesture of solidarity and dignity he has shown by proposing an amendment - which i hope parliament will approve today - to make this treaty which we have to approve, the european constitution, bear the title of 'madrid constitution'. i think it is a gesture which honours us all and i shall certainly support it. finally, on the important issue of cyprus, i would like to reiterate on behalf of our group our unconditional support for the efforts being made by the un secretary-general to find a solution to the cyprus problem and, in the meantime, to help make the enlargement process a reality. i think we must appeal to both sides to seize this historic opportunity and unite a country that has been divided for 40 years, thus removing the last remaining wall in europe.
(es) mr president, we are very moved to welcome and share the solidarity with the victims of the terrorist attacks of 11 march expressed by the council, the commission and especially by you, mr president, pat cox. we also support the proposal to dedicate this day each year to the memory of the victims of terrorism. we think that the measures of police and judicial coordination and information, as well as the creation of a european counter-terrorism officer, are positive in the fight against terrorism, but we must not fall into the hysteria of control and suspicion that the united states has shown with the patriot act, with measures that undermine human rights and the foundations of democracy and freedom. that is, along with terror, one of the goals of terrorists: to undermine democracy. in this sense, we do not agree with the proposals for police control which involve biometric data and the like. we believe that the response of spain and europe, which is so different from that of the united states on 9/11, is the appropriate one. instead of leaning towards aggression, military reaction and the curtailment of freedoms or invading countries, we have put emphasis on police persecution, to bring these criminals to justice. the international role of europe can and must be directed towards achieving a more just and united world, free of poverty and inequality, which deprives the murderers of democracy and freedom of all justification, which is always reprehensible. these measures, which are totally different from the american approach, include the ending of the illegal and unjust occupation of iraq and the recognition of the state of palestine, in order to put an end to another illegal and equally murderous occupation of palestine by israeli troops. we should hold a world conference on terrorism under the auspices of the united nations, where the various measures can be expressed: cooperation between the police; structural problems: poverty, debt, inequality; the role of financial institutions and also of the various commercial entities; the fight against tax havens and money laundering. these measures have also been mentioned by mrs doyle. finally, in connection with the possible and desirable amendment and completion of the european constitution - which has been opened up by the appointment of mr zapatero as a candidate for president of the government of spain, together with other movements in europe - we think it would be important to take advantage of this opportunity to achieve, together with the necessary reform in decision-making, more democracy and more solidarity in the european constitution, with parliamentary control and popular sovereignty over the european central bank and a modification of the stability pact that implies progress throughout europe.
(es) mr president, on 11 march all the members of the european parliament entered parliament in horror at the news of the terrorist massacre in madrid at 7.30 in the morning. let me first express my sympathy, condolences and solidarity with the victims and their families, and my rejection of all forms of terrorism. that morning i had felt a special thrashing, added to so much blood and so much pain, that its authorship could have been the work of some ultra-radical basque fanatics of eta. in the middle of the morning, i had the opportunity to listen to a belgian television station, which pointed to the possibility of its authorship by an islamic terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. by then there had been an early call to the police from the witness who saw three hooded men in alcalá de henares and the van with the detonators and the quote from the koran had been found. and there were also statements against the attack and eta's authorship, by the batasuna spokesman. it was already known that the attack was not the work of eta, and yet pressure was applied and it was artificially maintained that eta was the author of the european parliament's resolution and that of the united nations security council. i therefore understood that mr aznar's spanish government, the people's party, was trying to deflect its responsibility for participating in the invasion of iraq, against the opinion of the spanish people, the un and international law, and was taking the opportunity once again to blame eta and nationalisms for the problems that authoritarianism and intolerance, like his, have created in spain and in the world. nor did the discovery of a backpack with explosive detonators and a mobile phone manipulated by islamists; nor the repeated statements claiming responsibility for the attacks by the al qaeda organization. the popular party continued to blame eta, through mr aznar's personal calls to the main newspapers and the foreign minister's to the ambassadors, as well as through the ineffable public appearances of minister acebes. and what is worse, millions of european citizens and governments of other states were blatantly deceived by the popular government, which cared not a whit about the risk of repeated attacks and deaths in other cities, provided that the spanish people did not know, until after the elections on sunday 14th, that the horror suffered in madrid was a response to the unjust and illegal war in iraq. fortunately, the spanish people were able to claim the truth and to dismiss from the government those who tried to deceive them. and may we soon convince ourselves that the best recipe for terrorism is to end the injustice and poverty that are so widespread in the world, and then we can live in peace.
(es) mr president, i would like to thank you, on behalf of the epp-ed group, for the many expressions of solidarity and i thank you personally for your support and companionship in times of sorrow. our lasting memory is, of course, with the victims and their families. that is why, together with other colleagues, we took the initiative in the committee on civil liberties to recommend that the european union establish a day of remembrance and remembrance for the victims. the house decided to hold it on 11 march and i am glad that the council has ratified that proposal - it decided almost unanimously. mr. ortuondo didn't support it and he'll know and explain why. but the support for the victims from the european institutions must not only be moral but also material. to meet these needs, my group has already asked for the inclusion, for the first time in the 2004 budget, of a line of eur 1 million to create a pilot programme to support victims of terrorism and their families. unfortunately, circumstances show that more needs to be done and, without diminishing our support for the measures of assistance to the victims which the council has approved, i would like to express here our wish that the financial allocation for the pilot project of aid to the victims be significantly increased, raising the status of this project to that of a community action of great scope. that is the commitment of the ppe-de group, mr president, which has been included among the political priorities for the next parliamentary term and which envisages the creation of a european compensation fund for victims of terrorism. ladies and gentlemen, the action plan against terrorism was adopted after 11 september, but on 11 march 2004 some of the measures contained in it had not yet been transposed into national law. i repeat the request made by several members, because it is essential that the member states cooperate in the early implementation of measures adopted under the third pillar. improving safety in the prevention sector in europe is of vital importance. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to remind you, on the basis of my country's experience, that the defeat of terrorism is not easy, it requires persistence and tenacity, but it is an inescapable challenge for all europeans if we are to continue to live in free and democratic societies. no one is immune to that threat and it would be a tragedy if some tried to escape it by looking the other way. on the contrary, we will overcome it if we face it together, with democratic firmness and the strength of the rule of law.
(es) mr president, after 11 september this parliament worked quickly and very seriously in supporting the commission and asking the council for a series of measures to deal with terrorism. the union institutions have been working effectively to obtain a common definition of the crime of terrorism, to obtain and implement the search and seizure order. the european parliament, and the other community institutions, have made great efforts to promote greater police cooperation, to strengthen the task force of police chiefs, to establish an operational europol under effective judicial control, and to establish minimum procedural guarantees and, finally, to create a framework which would give us greater security and greater flexibility in situations such as those which have arisen in the united states. this was also the case during the debate on the new constitution, which opened up a framework of important opportunities to improve the legal framework for police and judicial cooperation and to subject it to much-needed parliamentary scrutiny. but the moment passed, and the proposed measures were advancing only by inertia, at a pace, mr president, that has still not reached anywhere today. it was necessary to live through the horror we have lived through so that we could speak of it again in a solemn session on a wednesday morning. mr president, on 11 march we all played a sad role. if there is one thing that citizens expected from us, it was cooperation to provide security, and what we staged, for different reasons, and with different degrees of responsibility, was a real ceremony of confusion. the european commission is right when it says that we do not need new ideas. we just need to put into practice the ones on the table, already boring, and too much touched. we have not escaped the temptation to have a new one and have created a "mister terrorism" which i am not sure what it will do if we do not improve the global framework of mutual trust. europe can and must make a difference. we do not need a european patriot act. we can and must offer greater security based on mutual trust and strong cooperation in strict respect for the freedoms and rights that terrorism wants to destroy. i hope that the next time we talk about this is not with tears still fresh, but with the firm will to live up to the world of today. a world in which europe, working for internal cooperation, can also offer a path and a guide to - in the framework of the united nations and multilateral action - confront the major dangers we face.
(es) mr president, it is clear that the conclusions of the spring summit were marked by the terrorist attack in madrid, which had not only political consequences but also obvious economic consequences, given the dose of uncertainty, instability and insecurity that every terrorist phenomenon entails, as the citizens of madrid who suffered this terrible attack know very well and as the spanish citizens of the basque country know very well, where, for more than twenty years, there has been a nationalist government that has not been able to guarantee, during all this period, neither security nor the most elementary rights of citizens and whose president, incidentally, has been the first political responsible person in spain to attribute the authorship of this terrorist attack to the eta gang. i would like to say, mr president, that on the constitutional issue i do not share the remarks made this morning in the house, according to which the change of government in spain is at the origin of the new climate that has been created. this new climate has been created precisely as a result of the attitude adopted by the member states - including the most recalcitrant ones - in the light of the new circumstances, and i would like to stress that spain has always been ready to negotiate to make its conditions more flexible. europe wants and needs a constitution, but it must be a constitution in which all european citizens can see themselves recognized. it is important to say, mr president, that not only in the face of the terrorist phenomenon but also in the face of the crisis of the stability pact, the appreciation of the euro and the challenges, challenges and opportunities presented by enlargement, the climate in the european union at the moment is not the most optimistic. the press pointed out that europe has lost one point of competitiveness over the last ten years in relation to the united states and that today the prosperity of the average citizen of the european union is 30% below that of the average citizen of the united states. what are the elements we need to get back on the path of sustained growth and the recovery of employment? mr president, apart from the structural reforms called for by the lisbon strategy, the most important thing, the qualitative leap europe has to make, is the relaunching of the european project, not as a simple monetary union, not as a simple single market, but as the real political project, and for that we have the presidency of the council and, very particularly, the presidency of the european commission.
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to begin my speech without thanking you, as a spaniard and as president of the committee on civil liberties, for the support which the european council has given to the proposal made by this parliament to make 11 march the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism. the recent events, in addition to our being plunged into confusion and pain, have made us aware - as we have unfortunately been for some time in my country - that the civilized world is at risk, in danger, in the face of a new enemy whose limits are not defined: terrorism. and the fight against this enemy, equipped with many tentacles and who kills and murders in a ruthless and brutal way, is not a war of convenience, it is not a traditional war, but it is - and there is no doubt about it - an unequal and criminal war against societies structured on principles such as freedom and democracy. the european union must unite its efforts and urgently put in place all the legal, financial and human instruments to combat terrorism. i therefore consider that this parliament is obliged to send the european council a message of support for the measures it adopted on 25 march last, contained in its declaration against terrorism, but also to demand from it, with the legitimacy that gives us the right to represent the european citizens, that we cannot for one more minute accept the lack of political will in the implementation of these measures by the member states, as is happening at present - and i will highlight only some of the most obvious examples, such as the euro-order or the framework decision on terrorism. and we can even less accept that, for purely budgetary or procedural reasons, such effective instruments in the fight against terrorism as the anti-terrorism unit, created within europol in the wake of the attacks of 11 september, have been dismantled. the european union is often faced with major difficulties in taking decisions, and this, with 25 member states, will, i fear, lead to the blocking of many decisions. why not then - following the example of the last european council, which used the solidarity clause, provided for in the draft constitutional treaty - anticipate the implementation of the system of qualified majority decisionmaking, already included in the text of our future constitution? i believe, ladies and gentlemen - and i will end with this - that this would greatly facilitate our work against what has proved to be the greatest danger to the stability of democratic societies based on the rule of law. it is no less, ladies and gentlemen, than our citizens deserve.
(es) mr president, i am speaking because i was mentioned in this debate on my abstention on 11 march last in connection with the oral amendment which proposed that we should dedicate 11 march to the european day against terrorism. and i must make it clear that i am not against an international day against terrorism, nor a european day against terrorism. if i had been against it, i would have voted against it; i abstained because the statement was supported by a false, manipulative element which misled european opinion as to who had perpetrated these sad and horrific attacks. it has also been mentioned that the basque government has not been able to tackle terrorism in twenty years. i have to remind you that mr aznar, the government of the people's party, promised to end terrorism in five years; eight years have passed and now, instead of one terrorism, we have two. we must begin to understand that tackling terrorism is not possible with police and judicial measures alone. the key to what we have to do is tackle injustice and poverty. the key is to respect the identity, culture and religion of others and the key is an equitable international legal order, which we all respect and not just when it suits certain interests.
(es) mr president, mr ortuondo did not mention me personally, but he referred to statements i made during the debate, and i understand that i am entitled, under rule 122, to respond to those statements in which he quoted some of the words i have spoken. i don't usually get into the nitty-gritty of these debates, because i understand that dirty laundry is washed at home. but the truth is the truth - agamemnon or his pig farmer says it - and mr ortuondo, before he starts making assertions and giving advice to others, should take a look around his own house, because, even if he does not like it, the only political responsible - and when i use the word responsible i have serious doubts about a person who links an unconstitutional project that seeks to blow up the unity of spain - has been the president of the autonomous government, of his own party. therefore, i reaffirm all that i have said and do not take back a single word of my words.
(es) mr president, i would ask the presidency to address mr hans-peter martin and ask him to submit to the same procedure that mr schulz and the other german colleagues have agreed to undergo in relation to the accusations made against him, especially in the austrian press. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i thank the rapporteur mainly for her continuous commitment to human rights. however, in the report there is no recognition of a crucial and urgent issue – the torture of basque political detainees. yesterday, a young girl, ainara gorostiaga, was released on the orders of the spanish judge baltasar garzón, after spending two years in prison. she had been kept incommunicado from february 2002. miss gorostiaga admitted all the charges against her, but then retracted, saying that the statement had been extracted under torture. judge baltasar garzón now recognises that she is not guilty. three other youngsters have already been released because there was no evidence against them either. two years incommunicado because of torture! ladies and gentlemen, quousque tandem?
the rapporteur. (es) madam president, perhaps the first thing to remember about this fisheries agreement with greenland is that it is the second most expensive agreement signed by the european union, after the agreement with mauritania. in addition, there is a difference between the two agreements i have just mentioned, which we call the difference between the 'northern' and the 'southern' agreements. there are a number of features in the northern agreements, which i shall be discussing in the course of my speech, which distinguish them from the southern agreements. much has been said about this fisheries agreement with greenland, and almost everything has been said and almost everything is true. for example, the court of auditors stressed at the time that the fisheries agreement with greenland did not respect some basic budgetary rules, for example, fishing opportunities. of the 42.8 million euros that this agreement costs, only 28 were spent on fishing opportunities and that included paper fish, so called because they were fish that, although paid for, did not exist in greenland waters because they had disappeared long ago. in addition to the fact that the utilization of fishing quotas was very low and far from reaching the value that had been envisaged for fishing opportunities, only four member states could and can fish under this agreement: the united kingdom, germany, france and denmark. the other member states were and are excluded from these waters. it should be said that this exclusion and this non-use of paid fishing quotas has caused and continues to cause a number of distortions, such as, for example, that some of the member states benefiting from the agreement have tried to resell unused quotas, because they are not of interest to the consumer market of that member state and are of interest to consumption in other states. in addition to this distortion (attempt to resell something already paid for) there has been and is fishing for quotas not fished by vessels flying the flags of those member states, but which are in reality neither of those member states nor of others, but are vessels even from outside the community. the fact is that there is a desire to acquire these unfished quotas, or at least to start fishing, even if only on an experimental basis, by some member states which are not included as beneficiaries of this agreement or which were excluded - the case of the iberian fleets: the spanish and portuguese - at the time of our accession to the european community, despite the fact that we have been fishing in these waters for centuries. the commission acknowledged all these distortions in its document and proposed a mechanism whereby the commission could temporarily transfer unused fishing opportunities to another member state, only during the current year and without affecting the allocation of quotas in future years. we thought this was a good mechanism, especially because it was a test mechanism and, over time, we could check whether it worked or not. but, nevertheless, in the committee on fisheries an amendment was adopted, tabled by nationals of one of the member states concerned, to the effect that the commission could establish consultation procedures between the member states, but that it would be those who had the quotas who could determine or decide on their allocation or attribution to other member states not beneficiaries but interested in fishing in this area. i think that the central debate on this issue is really whether the commission has only a facilitating role or whether, as this is a community fisheries agreement, it must ensure the best rate of utilization of the fishing opportunities which, as i say, have been acquired and paid to greenland by the community under this fisheries agreement. i think we are basically not talking about national issues - because in fisheries agreements in general - and those of us here know this very well - national issues are always very present and there are always a lot of tensions due to this - but about the principle of sound financial management, the gordian knot of this question. the aim is to define this principle in relation to the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, and to ensure that it is respected by monitoring performance indicators, which are set by activity and which are also measurable, so that the results obtained can be appreciated. i say this from the point of view of someone who has worked on this agreement for a long time and who i think i know very well. greenland is also in full support of the proposals i have just made here - in fact it has already concluded an agreement with the commission - and i think it would be a good sign if we sent two community fishing fleets from here: let them fish - not all of them, but a little - in those waters.
(es) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to have to begin my speech without being able to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. the miguélez ramos report, as it comes before the house today, is worse than the commission's proposal. that is why we voted against your report in committee, as did the rapporteur herself. i sincerely believe that the commission's proposal was good and sufficient, and i think it would have been accepted by a majority in the committee on fisheries, in which case there would have been no need to amend article 3, since, for the first time, the commission was echoing the long struggle of the epp-ed group in this european parliament and of the spanish government itself to apply the same criteria in the fisheries agreement with greenland as in the 'southern agreements' and to eliminate any unused but paid fishing opportunities, thereby allowing the commission directly to reallocate those underused fishing opportunities to other member states who so request. mr vitorino, i ask you to tell commissioner fischler to go ahead with his proposal, because it is reasonable, fair, equitable and in line with the principles of good governance, which the court of auditors has so insisted on, and it is in favour of the mutual interests of greenland and the european union, and above all it is a pro-european proposal, because it is in the common european interest, as opposed to the current miguélez ramos report, which is anti-community, because it prevents the commission itself from directly looking after the common interest of all the member states in reallocating unused quotas and obliges it to bow to the bilateral negotiating will of certain states which do not use those quotas. the report is therefore, in our view, a step backwards, and we will therefore vote against it again if the new amendment no 5 is not adopted, which is better than amendment no 2 in the present miguélez ramos report.
- the next item is the report (a5-0205/2004) by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders with regard to access to the schengen information system by the services responsible for issuing registration certificates for motor vehicles in the member states (com (2003) 510 - c5-0412/2003 - 2003/0198 (cod)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0144/2004) by mr marinho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the road to more accessible, fairer and more managed asylum systems.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the opportunity this parliament offers to discuss these essential questions. as you know, the thessaloniki european council, building on the previous communication, gave the commission another mandate to explore all the parameters to ensure an orderly and managed entry into the european union of persons in need of international protection through asylum, and the ways and means to increase the protection capacity in the regions of origin, and to present a report to the council by june 2004. there are obviously clear links between the two communications - the 2003 one on asylum and the next commission communication - and so your report and the discussions today will greatly enrich the work we are doing in the commission and will present shortly. i would like to begin by saying that i welcome the fact that the report endorses the analysis of the shortcomings of the current protection regime of the asylum system, which undermine the credibility and integrity of the institution of asylum and the public support it can receive. in this context, it is imperative that agreement is reached on the asylum procedures directive, which is really the only extraordinary measure that remains. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the new approach we explore in the communication, which is the subject of your report, points to a change of focus: away from what we can do to reduce the numbers of applications and moving, however, towards what we can do to improve the work, that is, to better protect a number of refugees - which we suspect will be higher on a global scale - by trying to find new ways to improve accessibility, equity and the management of the international protection regime. it is also a question of making better use of the funds and budgets at our disposal. in this context, i would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the rapporteur and the european parliament for the very constructive role they have played in moving forward the aeneas programme which will help host third countries by providing financial and technical assistance to enable them to cope with the pressures they are subjected to in protracted refugee situations. however, financial and technical assistance alone is not enough. it is necessary to share the burden and responsibility if the european union is to show that its desire for international protection to become more equitable is a genuine desire. in this context, it could be considered to take some of the pressure off host countries by offering resettlement places for refugees in the european union. the next communication will go into more detail on the reasoned analysis and parameters in a possible resettlement plan within the european union, and it is clear that such considerations must fit well into an overall context in which unhcr will obviously play an important role, given the link with the current global debates on the strategic use of resettlement. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament for its report and i would like to stress to the rapporteur that it will certainly be taken into account in the next commission communication.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (es) mr president, when we talk about asylum we have to say that it is a right which is available to anyone who has a well-founded fear of being persecuted and that international law, community law and internal regulations legally oblige the european union and its member states to respect this right. it is essential that the institution of the right of asylum should not be affected by the crisis in which the asylum system is plunged, possibly because of its misuse. i would like to congratulate the institutions because, five years after the tampere european council, the creation of a european asylum system is finally under way, which should involve common standards for the reception, processing of files and assistance to be given to asylum seekers. the european union should first of all adapt the conditions under which asylum seekers are currently received to european standards of individual rights and guarantees, hygiene and welfare. secondly, it should be used to adapt to the present situation and to include among the cases of asylum the cases of women and girls threatened with genital mutilation, child soldiers and victims of new forms of slavery. as rapporteur for the committee on development and cooperation, i am pleased that the improvement of asylum systems and the eventual establishment of a common european system is not done from a police point of view, but also taking into account the political aspects and the development and human rights problems which are at the root of both asylum claims and economic mass migration which sometimes masks asylum. the commission's approach should include measures to help build systems of freedom which respect human rights in the countries of origin and to establish the necessary conditions of security in neighbouring countries. this would reduce the pressure on the real asylum seekers at european borders. for fictitious asylum seekers, the tendency for economic migrants to use the asylum institution can only be curbed by funding cooperation projects in the countries of origin that provide development prospects. the socialist group has long supported co-development measures, that is, the concrete development of the places of origin of migration to facilitate return and discourage emigration or abuse of asylum. i hope that the next parliament will have the opportunity to give its opinion on the definitive establishment of a common asylum system.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0143/2004) by mr scarbonchi, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the budgetary implications of the european development fund (edf) (2003/2163 (ini)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0125/2004) by mr maes, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the safety of third-country aircraft using community airports.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mrs maes for the excellent work she has done over this period as rapporteur for a directive which was indeed originally tabled in 1997 but was blocked by the differences between the united kingdom and spain on the gibraltar issue. mrs maes, the united nations has made it very clear that gibraltar is a colony. it is quite shocking that in europe, on european territory, we still have a colony, but it is the united nations that says so, nothing more. in conclusion, i would like to say that we must know the problems that lie behind other problems that we sometimes encounter. but thanks to the fact that we managed once again to get the united kingdom and spain to put this question in parentheses and accept a formula which does not prejudice anything, neither in favour of one country nor the other, but simply puts the dispute between the two countries on ice, without any progress in the european union and the other countries, even the two of them, we were able to unblock this question. this is a question which affects not only this proposal but also a number of other proposals which were on the air transport sector. when i arrived i found that there were 9 or 10, and then the whole "one sky" initiative, but finally, in the year 2000 we managed to unlock everything and we managed to get it going. indeed, on 3 january this came up again with tremendous brutality, after the flash airlines tragedy, which resulted in numerous deaths. once again, we saw that we should have acted more quickly. but we finally did it. we were already in the process of conciliation at that time, we had already made a great deal of progress, and that certainly helped to facilitate the conciliation process, and i would like to thank the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee and the council for their work, which i believe has enabled us to achieve a good conciliation. a conciliation agreement will enable inspectors, national authorities and the commission to identify foreign carriers who do not respect international safety standards and to prevent them from accessing community airports, including, if necessary, flying over european airspace. i mean, before it is adopted, this directive is already having an effect. a few weeks ago, one of the european union countries, in the context of the safa programme, which now exists within the framework of the ecac, detected serious shortcomings in a company from a third country and banned it from accessing its airports. the commission has already informed us, the agency and the member states of this measure, and four other member states have already followed the decision of the united kingdom to exclude this airline from their territories. i would like to reply to mrs maes that before the end of this commission's term of office, before i leave my responsibilities, i hope to have tabled the amendment which will make it possible to clarify the companies with which charter flights are operated and, possibly, any changes which may give rise to guarantees, rights, for customers. i would like to thank the honourable members and the council for the work they have done, and i hope that tomorrow they will be able to support the outcome of this conciliation, the implementation of which, i repeat, is absolutely urgent, not just in an informal way as it is being done now, because it is already being done, but in a full way so that it has all its effects.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0217/2004) by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (eec) no 95/93 on common rules for the allocation of slots at community airports (16305/1/2003 - c5-0094/2004 - 2001/0140 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr stockmann).
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, mr jarzembowski, we all agree that slots are public goods. it is a system of attribution of a public good - what in spain we call a concession, a right to use a public good that is attributed in certain contexts and in certain circumstances. once the definition of what constitutes a public good or right has been defined, it may be possible to provide that the holder negotiates that public good or right for an indefinite or limited period of time. that's what's there. in fact, this is a practice that is currently being carried out in some european airports in an opaque way. the next proposal will be to introduce transparency into these exchanges, into these negotiations, while always maintaining the status of a public good. the time zone being a public good, the public authority always has prerogatives which, in any case, continue to be maintained. among them is the possibility of regulating how these exchanges can be made, under what conditions, etc. that is what we have to solve in the next initiative. i believe that these two initiatives which we have discussed today - the conciliation on the safety of third country aircraft and the second reading on the proposal for common rules on the allocation of slots - are the last two initiatives on the air transport sector which we are going to adopt in this parliament. i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the safety of aircraft in the community, which is a very important document. i would like to express my gratitude to them in particular. i would like to thank you for the work we have done, the very positive collaboration that has been established over this period, and i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the commission services for their excellent work, which has enabled and facilitated this cooperation, and of course also the council, which has enabled us to move forward. in the meantime, before the end of this parliament's term of office, i may have some rather good news about the negotiations with the united states in the field of the common transatlantic aviation area or at least about the first steps. i know that the transport secretary, mr minetta, is going to appear before this parliament and i think that will also facilitate the debates.
thank you very much, commissioner. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the agenda of this parliament has been exhausted. mr jarzembowski, you have the floor.
- thank you very much, mr jarzembowski. the next meeting will take place tomorrow, thursday. (the sitting was closed at 10.40 p.m.)
- next wednesday is the anniversary of the genocide in rwanda. in memory of the almost 1 million victims and in order to express our wish that such a tragedy should never happen again, i invite you to observe a minute of silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- thank you very much, mrs gebhardt. i will convey your request to the president of parliament. transmission of texts: see minutes
- the next item is the report (a5-0204/2004) by mr oostlander, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the 2003 periodic report of the commission on turkey's progress towards accession.
(es) mr president, i am sorry that the commissioner has had to leave for another meeting and is not present at a discussion of the highest body of parliament, which is the house. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr oostlander, because i think he has made a good report. progress has been made in turkey, but many gaps remain, particularly as regards the role of the army and respect for minorities living in the country. the european union must deepen and move forward, which i think is perceived as a risk by those who want a european union which is limited to being a free trade union and who see in enlargement and the incorporation of other countries the possibility that the european union will not move towards political unity. i believe that turkey should be required to meet the copenhagen criteria exactly and to move towards a more democratic society and a society which respects minorities.
(es) madam president, i would like to draw your attention to something which i think is extremely important. we are looking at the issue of turkey from the point of view of fears, from an extraordinary fear that a partner with a large demographic will approach us, who, in turn, is a partner somewhat different from us. and yet, the reality is that, in the last two and a half years, no one could have imagined the changes that turkey is making by moving closer to europe. apart from the first revolution in the 1930s, of changing the language and achieving a secular country - which we would like all arab countries to have this concept of a state where civil power is separated from religious - in the face of the ascending theocracies we have in the islamic world, it seems a lie that we do not understand that this is a great experience of democracy. now, it is true that we have a habit of looking at others with arrogance and not realizing our own littleness. and why are we small? because, if you look at the international context and what's going to happen in the future, the great china, the great india, the united states, all of them are going to be great powers and europe will not be taken into account; it will be a small province of the world. so i see no problem in a country which has a governance structure, a capacity building, which needs to be developed, but which is larger than other european countries, which has state structures and is therefore able to do its duties as it is doing them, making progress under a moderate government which is trying to implement democracy and make political reforms, i do not see why we should not give it the opportunity to be a partner that is close to us and that can be an example for the arab countries. and look at the demographics. the demographics of the mediterranean region, of turkey, of azerbaijan and other countries, are against us. let us think ahead and develop the axes and analyses we need.
commission. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express the commission's appreciation and satisfaction with the very good reception given by the european parliament to our new college member, mr dimas. the exchange of views that mr dimas had last tuesday with the committee on employment and social affairs took place in a very constructive and cooperative manner. the commission acknowledges the political importance and significance of this exercise, to be placed, as you know, in a different and special context as compared with the interinstitutional procedure defined by the legal provision of article 215 of the treaty.
(es) mr president, i would ask that rule 68 (3) of the rules of procedure be applied in this case, which provides that if an initiative is rejected, it must be referred back to committee. i ask this because mr vitorino announced yesterday in this house two substantial amendments to the initiative which i believe should be subject to further analysis in committee and, moreover, this is provided for as an ordinary procedure by the article i have mentioned.
in writing. - (pt) i should like first of all to congratulate the irish presidency on its handling of the question of the adoption of the draft constitution of the convention. as is usually the case, it had to be the presidency of a small state which showed enough intelligence and european spirit to try to solve such a crucial problem. i say this even though, as a member of a stateless nation, galicia, i can only dissent from the constitutional text when it does not recognise stateless nations, which are a fundamental part of europe's political, historical and cultural diversity. having said that, i would like to leave my speech on the european council meeting in brussels last week to the terrorist attack in madrid. as i said in the amendment i tabled on behalf of my group, i would like to express my admiration - which reflects the admiration of everyone - for the exemplary reaction of the people of madrid and of spanish society as a whole to the terrorist attack of 11 march. i would like to emphasize the dignified and humane behaviour of the citizens and the effective rescue and relief work carried out by all the institutions and the assistance provided to the victims and their families, and i would also like to point out that at no time was there any expression of xenophobia or any expression of hostility towards particular religions or countries. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- we congratulate you, and we congratulate all of us, mrs lynne, on this important news that the declaration has already reached the required number of signatures.
- the next item is the report (a5-0176/2004) by mr florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the communication from the commission entitled 'towards a thematic strategy for waste prevention and recycling'.
commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr florenz for this important report; as usual he has done a thorough job. in the sixth environmental action programme the european union set out a vision integrating resource, product and waste policies, and now with the development of the thematic strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste we are designing the concrete policy which will take the next step towards turning this vision into reality. allow me to share with you some thoughts on the challenges we are facing. the first challenge ahead of us is for waste policy to adapt to enlargement and the increased diversity of the european union. we must set common rules guaranteeing a high level of environmental protection for all facilities in the european waste recovery market. we must ensure that our legislation gives the right signals to member states, whilst allowing them to adapt policies to national issues. this means waste legislation must take more of a framework approach. the second challenge we are facing lies in defining the environmental objective of waste policy. we need to accurately target environmental impacts and look at how waste prevention, re-use and increased recycling can best reduce this impact. finally, the most concrete challenge will be to design cost-effective instruments. in the past we have focused on products with particular issues like end-of-life cars and computers. however, these wastes represent small fractions of total waste flows, and we have outlined in the communication ways to promote recycling more generally. we need to influence the economic attractiveness of recycling and set the scene for materials to re-enter the economy. i would like to make a few comments on some key aspects of the report before you. it rightly stresses the general objective of reducing environmental impacts of waste and the primary role waste prevention should play. however, we must accept that there is no miraculous instrument that can stop waste at source. we will have to adopt a flexible approach, enabling member states to use a wide range of measures. i welcome the support given to developing common standards for waste management facilities and promoting the use of economic instruments such as landfill taxes. i believe these elements should play a key role. landfill bans can also be useful, but only as part of an overall policy. i would like to stress that it will not be possible to increase indefinitely the number of product directives. the waste flows covered are too small, and implementation is complex. in conclusion, if we are to move forward in the face of changing circumstances we need to get our strategy right. we need to focus on the most significant environmental impacts of waste, and adopt framework actions to tackle them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. {es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this commission communication is a first step in the thematic strategy which includes both waste prevention and recycling. the opinion of the committee on industry, tabled by mr langen, recognises this and welcomes it. our position on this is clear. a flexible approach should be taken to take account of the diversity of geographical, social and economic situations in the different member states. we recognise the need to reduce the amount of waste produced and to achieve the highest possible rates of material reuse, and that all waste treatment options are valid, provided they are sustainable. recycling 100 per cent of waste is very desirable, but impossible. the imposition of mandatory targets, especially in the case of prevention, and of fees and taxes can have counterproductive effects on waste management. there are already functioning waste markets that manage large quantities efficiently. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. on the other hand, industrial waste is usually easier to recycle and we therefore ask the commission to take this into account and to include in its proposal the separate collection of recyclable material from industry. we also urge the commission to evaluate the consultation procedure carried out on the definition of 'waste', publishing its results and presenting a response on the definition of this concept and other collateral concepts such as the recovery of waste. commissioner, we are looking forward to the waste strategy and we will formulate our proposals for improvement, always thinking of the best for the environment and our citizens.
commission. mr president, first a word on waste definition. this is often mentioned as being important, which of course it is. in its communication the commission stated that it would consider changes to waste definition if the need for such changes was demonstrated, and also that the alternative proposal guarantees a high level of environmental protection. the commission also stressed that the debate on waste definition should focus on easing the application of the definition of waste. this has also been widely supported by stakeholders. it would seem useful to mitigate the impact of the definition of waste in some circumstances, and this may involve changes to the waste framework directive. turning to waste prevention, since it has been discussed, and the subject of setting targets for waste prevention. this is a complex issue, and the potential for waste prevention will vary; it depends on economic growth and also the maturity of different industrial production processes. furthermore, specific information and instruments are needed to influence each decision taken at production-process, management, design and consumer levels. eu legislation contains the seeds of mandatory waste prevention plans, because under the waste framework directive member states must draw up waste management plans which promote, inter alia, waste prevention. on recycling and recovery: in general, but not always, recycling is environmentally more favourable than energy recovery. for example, low quality of recycling, a high proportion of recovered energy or highly mixed waste can influence environmental performance. in such circumstances, case-by-case assessment may be necessary to determine the best option.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
- the next item is the commission statement on the international conference on renewable energy (bonn, june 2004).
commission. mr president, the plan of implementation agreed in johannesburg during the world summit on sustainable development in 2002 put a strong emphasis on renewable energy. it stresses the need to substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the total world energy supply. in answer to this challenge, the european community and the member states launched, during the world summit in johannesburg, the so-called 'johannesburg renewable energy coalition', inviting all countries of the world to joint it. a key milestone in this process is the conference that will take place in bonn this year. the commission has been involved in its preparation since the very early stages. the first preparatory international high-level conference was organised by the commission. it offered the first major stepping-stone towards the bonn conference, including a clear road map. the commission is also hosting the secretariat of this coalition. the coalition has now grown from 66 to 87 members and continues to grow: ghana joined only this week. the commission intends to present three initiatives at the bonn conference: first, a communication assessing the state of development of renewable energy in the european union. the communication takes as its starting point the need to address the union's growing dependence on energy imports – mainly oil and fossil fuels from a few areas of the world – and the need to tackle climate change. the promotion of renewable energy has an important part to play in both those areas. the communication will evaluate progress made by member states under the directive on electricity from renewable energy sources. it will report that all member states have adopted national targets for the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources. if member states achieve their national targets, the share of electricity from renewable energy sources in the eu of 15 should come close to the 22% target of the directive, compared to 14% in 2001. however, national policies and measures currently in place will probably achieve only half of the progress necessary, bringing the renewable energy share in electricity production only up to between 18% and 19% in 2010. that is a source of concern. as regards overall energy consumption, the union has, since 1997, been working towards the target of a 12% share of renewable energy. a couple of years ago the share was only 6%. since that date, in 2001 the community adopted new legislation in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, a directive on electricity from renewable energy sources –covering biofuels, energy performance of buildings, co-generation, etc. the european parliament and the council are examining further proposals on eco-design requirements, energy efficiency and energy services. however, even if this framework legislation is fully transposed and implemented, the share of renewable energy should still only reach 10% in 2010. there will be a need for further action. a priority will be the heating sector. through the secretariat of the johannesburg renewable energy coalition we have launched two key initiatives to support, in particular, the developing country members of the coalition. we are developing a global on-line renewable energy policy and measures data base, including reported targets jointly with the renewable energy team of the international energy agency. to respond to the continuing call for innovative public/private partnerships we are also exploring the feasibility of creating a patient capital fund to encourage participation from international and local financial intermediaries, as well as the international financial institutions. the aim is to offer affordable risk capital. both projects will be presented by the commission at the bonn conference. i should like to clarify some issues about the patient capital initiative, which originates from the commitments made by the european union to identify and bridge financing gaps and obstacles with respect to renewable energy. first of all, it is still only an idea that we are studying. a feasibility study has been launched. if it is established, that fund would be a type of equity finance that blends public and private sector investment requirements. it would provide equity funding in the expectation of a return but on a less demanding basis than pure market private equity capital. we are presenting this initiative in a wide range of events and fora and have received positive feedback so far. as regards the bonn conference, the european preparatory conference on renewable energy was held in january this year. that conference considered that the use of overall targets for renewable energy should be extended beyond 2010. a number of technical studies suggest that a target of at least 20% of gross domestic consumption from renewable energy in 2020 is economically feasible and achievable for the eu of 25, provided that the right policy environment is created. however, it is the view of the commission that the adoption of an eu target of 2020 is premature at this point in time, as further consultations are necessary. nevertheless my personal opinion is that we should give a clear signal in bonn that we are ready to set 2020 targets, but that more work is needed on what those targets should be. such a signal is critical if the eu wants to maintain its leadership role within the coalition for renewable energy and in the field of global sustainable development in general. the targets set for 2020 are also necessary to give certainty to the fledgling renewable energy industry within the eu and, in particular, to the financial sector. this will help achieve current and future targets.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the international conference on renewable energy and this resolution, which we are going to vote on next, respond to a need and to a general concern for the increase of clean and sustainable energy over time. the european union has made a lot of progress, but it still has a long way to go. three years ago this parliament passed the directive on the promotion of renewable sources of electricity and since then there has been a dramatic increase in the use of electricity sources. the european union accounts for the largest share of the world's installed capacity. in 2001, there were 17,000 megawatts of wind power installed. today, that number has doubled. it is just one example of a long list of successes that allow us to export innovative and environmentally friendly technologies to other countries. i believe that from now on we will have to achieve greater efficiency which will help to manage energy resources better. in this respect, i believe that the directives on energy efficiency in buildings and cogeneration will play an important role, as will the new smart energy plan for europe. i would like to see the 20% mentioned in the proposed resolution reached, but the way to achieve this is undoubtedly through improving energy efficiency. the consumption of transport fuels generates emissions of polluting gases, the most immediate effects of which are felt in large urban agglomerations. the directive on the promotion of biofuels, adopted last year, is therefore another of the commissioner de palacio's commitments to renewable energy to reduce emissions into the atmosphere. we are already seeing some cities incorporating biodiesel, bioethanol and hydrogen systems into transport. in some cases, these are experimental projects, but in other cases, the technology is a reality on wheels. these fuels can also be used in blends with other conventional fuels in normal cars and, to add to this, hybrid vehicles with conventional and electric operation are already on the market which optimise fuel utilisation. the next step must be the technology for large-scale use of hydrogen. the commission has already opened a wide-ranging debate on this energy carrier which will enable us to use means of transport without emissions. the current legislature is coming to an end, but i am sure that hydrogen will be one of the great topics of debate in the coming months and all these initiatives can contribute to achieving the most ambitious targets for renewable energy and, ultimately, for the environment. on the day when opec has just approved a reduction in oil production, i would like to end by asking the member states to show sufficient willingness to promote these renewable technologies which do not pollute and which come from resources which nature gives us in abundance, because this will be to the benefit of all.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was at the meeting in johannesburg. i both felt and shared the disappointment felt, above all, by the eu delegation, that we were not getting any further with the establishment of a global target for renewable energy. we turned it into the best we could do at the time. i myself have been very involved in bringing together those who want to work with clear targets and dates for how we are going to achieve a greater share of renewable energy. the forthcoming meeting in bonn will of course be of great importance. in particular, we will be able to share experience and knowledge on how best to promote the development of renewable energy through policy means. in today's debate we have heard some of the best arguments for why this is necessary, including the argument on climate change. claude turmes listed all our compelling arguments for investing in renewable energy. we have been discussing some of the most important instruments. i am the first to admit that it would be an important signal in bonn to declare that we are prepared to think a little more long-term, namely to the year 2020, and that we want to set such a target. in the enlarged european union, however, we need a little more time to discuss in detail how and how high this target should be set. i would like to say that there is a misunderstanding among some members about the current situation with regard to the kyoto protocol. it is not as some people think, that we would be in a total stalemate. all the countries that have now ratified the kyoto protocol are actually doing very important and concrete work to implement the protocol. this is because most of these countries, especially the poorest, are already affected by climate change. they realize that the effects of climate change will only get worse if we don't address the problem now. therefore, important work has already been started. we're not the only ones taking action. around the world, there is a growing recognition that the threat of climate change is so great that we need to take action now. the claim that renewable energy is likely to become more expensive is incorrect. on the contrary, it will be cheaper. consider the development of fossil fuels. we've only seen in the last few days how expensive oil has become. it will be more profitable to invest in renewable energy. this is particularly true if we also exclude fossil fuel subsidies. we should also be clear that the renewable energy market already represents a great economic value. european companies now account for 90% of the world market for equipment. we are very competitive, which has created thousands of jobs in europe. this trend will continue. wind energy alone has increased from 5 gw (gigawatt) in 1997 to 27 gw in 2003. there is a huge development happening in this sector. it's not at all that this area is idle, or that it's not happening enough. there's a lot going on, and the potential is amazing. we shall use these facts as an argument at our meeting in bonn. we will ensure that we continue to be a world leader in renewable energy. we'll all benefit from that.
- i give the floor to mr posselt, who has a point of order.
- thank you very much, mr posselt. we note your commitment to the work of this parliament and to the electorate. at the end of this debate i have received five motions for resolutions on the following subjects: see minutes, in accordance with rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place in a few minutes. composition of committees and delegations - composition of parliament - written declarations (rule 51): see minutes.
mr. knolle, we'll take what you say at face value. let us look at berlin and, in particular, at the european parliament. i can assure you that the bureau has noted these problems and we have no doubt that an appropriate solution will be found.
- we now proceed to the vote. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european union's role in the world of peace and security, and the european union's role in the world of peace and security, and the european union's role in the world of peace and security.
- the agenda of the parliament has been exhausted. decisions on various documents - forwarding of resolutions adopted at this part-session - written declaration - time and place of next part-session: see minutes. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
chairman of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. (es) mr president, it is clear that we have already discussed in depth all the aspects of the agreement with the united states on the processing of personal data of passengers travelling to that country from our territory. the request for a preliminary opinion to the court of justice, as mr lehne of my group has rightly said, will only delay the signing of the agreement and leave the processing of personal data by the american authorities in a state of illegality, with serious damage to european citizens and to the airlines themselves. it is therefore not appropriate to reiterate our position, which is already well known. i also believe, of course, that the agreement can be improved, but also that the fight against terrorism and cooperation with third countries in this field, and in this case with the united states, is a priority for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to echo, mr president, commissioner bolkestein's proposal that we should hear what commissioner patten is going to say to us tomorrow afternoon on the agreement and postpone the vote we are due to take in the morning. i would ask that this request, which seems to me to be very reasonable, be considered and that the vote we were going to hold tomorrow on the preliminary opinion of the court of justice be postponed until the day after tomorrow, after the commission has spoken.
commission. mr president, firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report which replies to the commission's communication on article 7 of the treaty on the european union. in that communication, which was addressed to the european parliament and the council, the commission aimed to provide a framework for analysis of the conditions for the application of article 7 of the treaty on european union in order to initiate a dialogue with the other two institutions responsible for implementing this important provision. the commission is pleased with the favourable reaction of parliament to the principle of this commission initiative. fundamental rights and the rule of law are the foundations of the european union and a significant departure by any member state from these values threatens to call into question the common values upon which the union was built. for this reason, the commission's communication underlined prevention as a means of obviating the need to resort to article 7 or, in any event, to impose the penalties provided for by this article. evidently, penalties should still be resorted to if necessary – let us be clear on this particular point. as the draft resolution rightly stressed, the union must first and foremost have confidence in member states and their own institutions, for example the constitutional courts. however, as part of a preventive approach it is undoubtedly necessary, as has in fact been requested by parliament, for the union to monitor respect for fundamental rights, and for independent european expertise to be developed in this area. as you are aware, we have put in place a network of independent experts which my colleague mr vitorino commented on at length at the last part-session during the debate on fundamental rights in the union. prevention also requires cooperation between institutions and the member states, dialogue with citizens and information and education of the public. a point meriting particular attention, and with which the commission fully concurs, is the reference to the principles that must be respected when considering whether to enforce article 7. these are the trust that should govern the eu's relationship with its member states, the respect for pluralism, the principle of the equality of the member states and the principle of the transparency of the decisions taken under article 7. i note also that the report considers that the role of the vienna monitoring centre could be revised with a view to providing 'independent and objective scrutiny on a broader basis'. this is in line with the european council's decision in december 2003 to extend the centre's mandate to convert it into an agency for fundamental rights, which is supported by the commission. i would like to take this opportunity to confirm that the commission is currently studying ways of implementing the preparatory activities of the ngo support programme in the new member states, in the areas of respect for the law, democracy and fundamental rights, in line with parliament's wishes. this confirms the shared determination of the commission and parliament to encourage civil society to take action to support fundamental rights based on a preventive, positive and constructive approach. to conclude, the commission welcomes the recognition of the importance of interinstitutional dialogue regarding the launch of the article 7 mechanism. as i said before, this is in line with the aim of the commission's communication, which was to institute a dialogue with the two institutions in order to develop a common approach.
(es) mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and tell him that i am speaking here on behalf of the ppe-de group and on behalf of another colleague who was not able to speak. there is no doubt that the ppe group has always defended the fundamental rights and values that are represented within the european union. the european union which the founding fathers promoted in the 1950s was not intended to be an economic union but a union based on fundamental values which we must guarantee, as the rapporteur has said. my group strongly supports your report, although some amendments have been tabled, but we will vote in favour of the proposal made by the rapporteur in this report. i am glad that some of these values were constitutionalised in nice and that it was possible to establish a mechanism through article 7 to ensure that the values are respected within the european union. i come from a country which has been attacked by terrorism for the last 30 years, and which also suffered a very serious terrorist attack on 11 march, and, as the rapporteur said in his speech, terrorism can only be attacked with more values, with more democracy, with more fundamental rights, and therefore the european union must be able to guarantee respect for those values within the union, in order to fight better against terrorism, against attacks on our values, against european values. finally, i would like to say - as regards the rapporteur's report - that we share the principles set out therein - trust, priority, equality and publicity - which can enable us to make progress in establishing the mechanism to prevent certain states from failing to respect the values which we so much want to defend in the european union and, more than anywhere else, in this parliament. we also support his proposal to establish some kind of interinstitutional mechanism to encourage dialogue between parliament and the council from the next parliament.
(es) mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, mrs arlene mccarthy and i have tabled a total of 25 amendments to the proposal for a directive on consumer credit, for which mr wuermeling is the rapporteur. as is well known, there was an initial stage of indecision, in which the rapporteur thought that the directive was being amended in committee, which led to the referral back to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market of this proposal for a directive, but fortunately we managed to resolve the issue and finally the rapporteur decided, in agreement with us, to resubmit it with a number of amendments. our problem is lack of time. this legislature is exhausted. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. our concern, of course, is not to kill consumer credit - which, for better or worse, has become an essential part of our lives - but to give the consumer a guarantee that he will not be strangled by consumer credit. our amendments are of a different nature. some, for example, refer to the legal basis. we think it is important to introduce article 153 on consumer protection as an additional legal basis and, moreover, we think it is also important to point out some elements in the definitions. in the definitions and especially in adherence to certain basic principles, for example, the apr - annual equivalent rate - which has been a concept that we have developed here and avoid its replacement by other criteria whose understanding may prove much more difficult. in short, we hope that tomorrow's vote will result in a proposal for a directive which is clearer to consumers and that on this basis the next parliament will be able to finally adopt this directive, which is so important for all consumers in the european union.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. {es) mr president, i believe that this directive is necessary. if anything is clear, it is that directive 87/102/eec no longer reflects the situation on the credit market. we could say that all europeans are currently trapped in debt. we therefore need a directive to prevent consumers from having the impression that when they are offered credit they will never have to pay it back, for two reasons which i consider to be fundamental: firstly, the harmonization of the conditions under which consumer credit is offered, and secondly, and above all - and this is of course a proposal from the pes group - the guarantee to consumers of a high level of protection. i am sorry that i do not have enough time to mention to the commissioner the amendments which we consider indispensable to at least these two objectives. but i hope some of my colleagues can tell you that, because we really need to protect consumers, at a time when it seems that credit is never going to be repaid. however, we citizens do have to pay them back, but we are more in debt than we can.
commission. mr president, i thank you for your valuable interventions on these three issues. i know that there is much common ground between parliament and the commission. allow me to respond to some of the points that have been made during the course of the debate and to indicate the commission's position on the key amendments. firstly, enforcement cooperation. on this regulation the commission can accept all the amendments tabled in the plenary by the rapporteur as they reflect the compromise reached with the council towards a first reading adoption of the regulation. amendments that are not part of the compromise package are not supported by the commission. prolonging discussions beyond the compromise reached with the council will not bring material improvements to our capacity to better enforce consumer protection rules. it would, however, provide rogue traders with more time to exploit the absence of effective cooperation between the enforcement authorities in the member states. the compromise represents a reasonable balance between the enforcement traditions of the member states. the most important question in these discussions has been the public nature of the network proposed. the thinking behind the commission's proposal was that only public authorities can deliver adequate guarantees on effectiveness and confidentiality. in a minority of member states effective enforcement is fulfilled by financing private consumer organisations to take action on behalf of the public interest. amendment no 76 successfully reconciles both traditions. those member states with a strong tradition of private consumer bodies would be able to delegate a fair number of cross-border cases to them. in the cases which involve confidential information or which require significant investigation, in other words the most serious rogues, a public authority will be lacking. the reference to comitology was inserted at the request of those meps who support delegation by member states. for a member state prevented by another member state from delegating to a private body, it provides a useful opportunity to air grievances. amendment no 29, removing 8(2)(b) and 8(2)(c), will be completely unacceptable to council and the commission. both have argued that 8(2) is a package and cannot be touched. i therefore commend that particular approach to the house. i am happy to be debating the consumer credit directive here today. it is now a little over 19 months since the commission sent this proposal to parliament, just a few weeks less than the gestation period of the elephant, and i suppose it is not surprising therefore that we have this weighty tome from the rapporteur. i am sure the rapporteur will understand if i do not accept all of his amendments, although i am trying to adopt a compromise approach to his position and to his report. many of the amendments proposed by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and discussed today can be accepted by the commission. some can be accepted partially or with limited changes. i also note that more than 200 amendments were tabled for this plenary sitting which, together with the comments from the various speakers, demonstrates that opinions are very divided. this reflects the divide in approach to consumer credit throughout the european union. i am nevertheless heartened by the fact that on the two principal objectives, namely ensuring a high level of protection and the creation of a genuine single market for consumer credit, there is a broad consensus. given the number of technical issues that have been raised, it would lead me too far astray to comment on all of them. i will therefore focus on some of the main issues. i wish to reiterate that full harmonisation will not lead to a reduction in the level of consumer protection. full harmonisation will apply to the areas for which the directive provides for such harmonisation, namely those areas most relevant to the operation of the single market. the commission is willing to consider excluding areas from the scope of the proposal that would not affect the single market. for these areas, member states can maintain their national provisions. credit intermediaries should only be submitted to national supervision. registration requirements would no longer be foreseen. provisions already covered by existing legislation can in general be deleted; for instance, provisions on door-step selling. the same applies to matters covered by national civil law, such as the provisions on repossession and sanctions. however, as i said before, this directive also aims at guaranteeing a high level of protection for consumers in the area of credit. i cannot, therefore, accept amendments that would lead to a reduction in the level of consumer protection. regarding small loans or overdrafts, it is possible to submit credit unions to a lighter regime principally based on the provision of information. i am always interested to hear sir neil maccormick tell the stories of his constituents and his recent experience in his constituency. i am sure he would be happy to hear that i have been invited to my own home town of monasterevin in county kildare, a small country town, to open a credit union within the next couple of weeks, where i will be emphasising these points. on mortgages, the commission recognises that there are a number of important practical and legal problems, principally related to the fact that such loans are secured by a mortgage on immovable property. we should not, however, lose sight of the fact that increasingly consumer spending and consumer credit arrangements are financed through loans secured by a mortgage on immovable property through so-called equity release mechanisms. the legal issues surrounding such contracts are indeed complicated, but the risks associated with consumers putting up their family home as collateral for consumer spending merit the attention of regulators and consumer protection provisions are warranted. questions surrounding mortgage-backed credit are being discussed in the forum group on mortgage credit which is due to present a preliminary report in june 2004. the commission will also take account of the discussions of this group in formulating its revised proposal. in this respect i also wish to note that the commission is ready to accept the ceiling proposed. credits for amounts above this ceiling would fall outside the scope of the directive. typically, credits for such amounts typically are secured by a mortgage. concerns have been expressed about the fact that the commission's proposed regime on joint and several liability will lead to a significant reduction of protection in a number of member states. the commission confirms that this is not the intention and believes the directive should not undermine the relevant national regimes. regarding the directive on unfair commercial practices, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept many of the amendments proposed in mrs ghilardotti's report, subject to minor changes in some cases. i will therefore focus on the areas where the main difficulties arise. under the proposal any practice which is misleading or aggressive automatically meets the criteria for unfair practice under the general prohibition. the commission cannot therefore accept amendment no 32 because this would require the tests of the general prohibition to be reapplied to misleading or aggressive practices. this would reduce legal certainty. amendment no 58 is also not acceptable because it will break the connection between the article on aggressive practices and the tests in the general prohibition. the commission is prepared to adjust the specification of the benchmark consumer which would be used to assess the impact of commercial practices. following our consultation we have taken a measured approach to the disclosure of information. the proposal focuses on the essential information which, if not given to consumers, or apparent from the context, is likely to mislead. while some of the proposed adjustments are acceptable, others would upset this balance either by removing key information or by adding extra requirements which would impose costs without bringing any real benefits to consumers. amendments nos 46 and 49 to 57 are therefore not acceptable. the measures in the annex have been selected because they are not in all circumstances unfair and so can be prohibited up front. but they are arrived at by applying the tests of the general clause and must fall within the scope of the proposal. i am also against the idea of a double legal base which some people have proposed. i know that some speakers hope for the inclusion of article 153. however article 153(1), makes a cross-reference to article 95, which is the legal base for this piece of legislation, and article 153(4) refers to legislation which can only be used in areas where you have minimum harmonisation. that is not our ambition. i therefore urge parliament to follow the draft and to follow the advice of parliament's legal service which, i understand, is of the same view as me. in conclusion, i only referred to a number of specific amendments or themes. a full listing of the commission's position on each of the amendments on the three reports discussed in this joint debate is being made available to parliament's secretariat and i trust this will be included in the verbatim report of proceedings for the joint debate. commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex
- thank you very much, inspector. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0260/2004) by mr sturdy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on maximum residue levels of pesticides in plant and animal products (com (2003) 117 - c5-0108/2003 - 2003/0052 (cod)).
commission. mr president, thank you for the broad support on the commission proposal in this important area. may i express my thanks once again to mr sturdy, the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in bringing this to a conclusion. i am heartened that we share a common understanding of the objectives to be achieved by this proposal: simplification, consumer protection and the achievement of the single market through harmonisation. i would also note that parliament's deliberations and discussions echo many of the themes and issues raised in the council discussions. as far as the council is concerned, i understand that a political agreement will be sought next week and a common position before the summer break. given the consistency in views between parliament and the council – views shared by the commission – i am confident that we can now move forward rapidly towards early adoption of this proposal. we have made good progress in setting out the legal and administrative framework whereby consumers will be protected from unacceptable levels of residues whilst at the same time ensuring that there is a single market by permitting trade in agricultural commodities. there are seven specific topics that arose in the discussions on which i would like to focus. the first of these is the notion of a default limit-of-determination mrl. this is very important. by accepting the concept of a default 'zero tolerance' mrl, we have found a solution for residues of the 400 substances we took off the market in 2003 for which the remaining residues should have moved out of the food chain by 2005. this means that, if we do not set a specific community mrl, we do not expect to see any residues. this should help to avoid nasty surprises in future and give us a legal tool to help fight misuse of pesticides. the application of a default mrl, however, raises a problem – what to do with all the national mrls that we already have and that are not yet harmonised. here we are introducing the concept of temporary mrls. i recognise that the issue of temporary mrls raises some anxieties, but can assure you that the european food safety authority will be involved in this process. it does not mean that we are suddenly increasing consumer exposure to residues. on a positive note, the setting of temporary mrls will finally achieve harmonisation and will centralise the mrl process, ensuring that high standards are established and maintained in future. also on the positive side, our proposal aims to screen these temporary mrls and to remove those that are clearly unacceptable whilst permitting the existing situation to continue, pending the detailed evaluations undertaken under directive 91/414/eec. please remember that we are not changing any agricultural practices here. whatever residues that have been circulating over the past ten or twenty years will still be circulating tomorrow at the same or at lower levels, but not at higher levels. in relation to agricultural practices, i recognise the desire that there should be a preference for non-chemical methods of agricultural production over chemical methods. however, this is not the appropriate text to regulate that issue. directive 91/414/eec on the marketing and use of pesticides governs agricultural production and i intend to bring forward proposals to amend it later this year. these proposals will be submitted as part of a package together with our proposals on the sustainable use of pesticides. i am sure that there will be ample opportunity at that stage to discuss the broader issue of chemical and non-chemical methods. it is also important to recognise the new role of the european food safety authority. i am sure that this will improve consumer protection and the scientific basis underpinning decisions taken. i know what mr sturdy said about the support, financial and otherwise, for the european food safety authority. the authority should also have an important role in risk communication and provide a reasoned voice in relation to the acceptability of any risks involved. not only will consumers be protected; they will be seen to be protected. efsa will also be deeply involved in scientific issues. immunotoxicity, endocrine disruption, cumulative risk assessments: these are emerging issues where the regulatory science is still trying to catch up with the latest advances in research. we will be looking to the authority to help us make progress in this sphere, not just in the context of setting mrls but also in the scientific data that we will be requiring in the dossiers that industry should be submitting to us under directive 91/414/eec. i have already referred to the setting of temporary mrls as leading finally to the achievement of the single market in this area. however, let us not forget the global aspect. the community is one of the biggest importers of food in the world. consequently we also import a lot of residues. this proposal will set up for the first time a clear procedure for import tolerances, for assessing those residues and for ensuring that only those that are deemed acceptable will be allowed. this is an important obligation in relation to the wto: any decisions taken on the acceptability or otherwise of imports will be based on clear procedures and a sound scientific risk assessment. finally, the strengthened provisions on monitoring and control measures should boost confidence among all parties and ensure that we have the tools available to justify and to maintain that confidence. a full listing of the commission’s position on each of the amendments is being provided to parliament. i trust that this will be included in the verbatim report of proceedings for this sitting. commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.
- thank you very much, inspector. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
commission. madam president, first i should like to thank the european parliament and especially the rapporteur, mr de roo, for the work on the report and, in particular, the very constructive attitude in the negotiations on the compromise package, which should allow us to reach a first-reading agreement on this important proposal. a first-reading agreement on what is termed a 'linking' directive will have been reached within a mere 10 months, confirming the european union's strong continuing commitment to the kyoto protocol and its flexible mechanisms. a first-reading agreement reaffirms the high priority that the european union gives to taking concrete action to tackle climate change. it will provide an important signal to our partners, in particular developing countries and economies in transition, including russia, of our continuing support for the kyoto protocol and our firm intention to tackle climate change multilaterally. it will assist our partners in their sustainable development through the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and know-how. the compromise package before parliament will give an important boost to the kyoto protocol and its project mechanisms: joint implementation and the clean development mechanism. it will create a demand for credits from ji and cdm projects by allowing around 12 000 companies across europe to use joint implementation and clean development mechanism credits for compliance with their obligations under the eu emissions trading scheme. by doing so it will enhance the cost-efficiency of the eu emissions trading scheme in a way that also benefits developing countries and economies in transition. i want to emphasise that the agreement being discussed today is fully consistent with the kyoto protocol's implementing provisions, which are usually referred to as the marrakech accords. as you know, the kyoto protocol contains no provisions on how companies can use ji and cdm credits. this directive now clarifies how this will be implemented by the european union. the compromise package before you is very delicately balanced. it addresses parliament's concerns by providing a careful balance between the quality and quantity of the joint implementation and clean development mechanism credits to be used in the eu trading scheme while at the same time keeping it robust and simple. the commission would now ask you to support this compromise package and, in doing so, take another determined step in strengthening the european union's response to the challenge of climate change.
(es) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the emissions trading directive about two years ago opened the way for some of the most polluting industrial sectors to participate in the fight to reduce co2 emissions into the atmosphere. it was a complex first step, still very recent, undoubtedly necessary to get closer to fulfilling the european union's commitments on climate change, but it also created a certain climate of distrust and fear of its practical implementation. the amendment of the directive by this linking directive, which allows the implementation of clean development projects and may lead to the recognition of emission reduction certificates, is therefore of great importance. firstly, as a political signal from the european union to the developing countries that they will get much more environmentally sound development aid from these projects than they probably have at present, and also as a signal to the sectors concerned that the european union really intends to put in place the means to facilitate participation in the emission trading. the rapporteur, mr de roo, has, i think, fully understood the need to give this liaison directive a great deal of flexibility, and that is why he has worked very well with all the political groups and has also conducted excellent negotiations with the council, the result of which i hope will be tomorrow, with a majority vote in favour at first reading. however, it seems to me that there have been - and he knows this, because we have discussed this - some aspects which have not been exploited as opportunities or that there have been some progress which has been too timid, which will not allow this flexible mechanism to be as effective as it should be. i am referring first of all to domestic or national projects, the implementation of which has been limited to the railway networks. i think that a wider range of situations could have been accepted without thereby undermining the spirit of this directive. i also think that the cautious approach to the admission and implementation of water projects has been excessive. i believe that in those countries not only are there - as mr linkohr has said - the need for sewers - i fully agree with him that he has also been too cautious on that subject - but also for water projects, which i believe were sufficiently covered in the marrakesh agreements. but there have been very positive aspects, such as the solution of the problem of supplementarity, and also the ability of member states to organise themselves and share common objectives, and to establish the most appropriate policy mix to achieve them. i think that is an excellent result and i congratulate the rapporteur again on that.
(in writing). (es) today, 19 april, we are celebrating the feast of saint vincent ferrer in the valencian country, and today, on the day i take up the position of mep on behalf of the valencian nationalist bloc, i would like to draw attention to a serious problem affecting the production of oranges and citrus fruit in valencia. the european union has not adopted any precautionary phytosanitary measures against possible contagion of pests and diseases from the import of citrus fruits from third countries such as argentina or brazil. this situation, which is particularly serious and which in the past has led to the introduction of pests such as the 'minador', may have serious consequences for citrus growing in valencia and in europe in the near future, such as the introduction into the union territory of 'xanthomonas axonopodis pv citri', which causes the 'kangaroo' disease on citrus fruits and the consequent appearance of the black spot on the skin of oranges. the european union cannot afford to abdicate its responsibilities and must urgently introduce phytosanitary hygiene guarantee clauses (in other products, such as the textile sector, other types of clauses) in order to prevent the entry of pests and diseases into a sector so important for the valencian and therefore european economy.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr sterckx, the chairman of the temporary committee on the strengthening of maritime safety, mr jarzembowski and the whole committee for the excellent work they have done in the field of maritime safety. i am convinced that the work and the report presented today will make a valuable contribution to further improving maritime safety in europe and to preventing environmental disasters from happening again. i want to remind you that now that we are coming to the end, we can be proud of, among other things, having been the maritime safety legislature. disasters like the erika and the prestige had happened before. but the necessary measures had simply not been taken, virtually no measures had been taken to prevent, mitigate, correct or make it more difficult for them to occur again. that was not the case in this case. in this case we have taken measures and the states, although not always in a satisfactory way, are acting. as i announced in my speech to the mare committee on 22 january 2004 following the entry into force of the maritime traffic monitoring and information directive on 5 february, the commission has already initiated the appropriate infringement procedures for failure to communicate transposition measures in this particular case. i should like to point out that to date only germany, denmark, spain and ireland have notified measures to transpose this text, which is fundamental to maritime traffic, into national law. the situation is, however, more satisfactory as regards classification and port state control companies, since only one state in the union of fifteen remains in non-compliance for not having communicated its measures for transposing the port state control directive. the new member states must have incorporated all community legislation on maritime safety into their legal systems by 1 may next. we will be uncompromising on this point, because maritime safety is an important area. i am well aware of the concerns of the honourable members regarding the compliance of cyprus and malta with international and community standards and i would point out that we are being particularly vigilant. since my last speech to the temporary committee, the commission services have carried out on-the-spot inspections in these countries and we have been able to see considerable progress in the incorporation of community law, although we must say that we cannot yet consider the desired objectives to have been fully achieved. the administrative capacity of these countries needs to be further strengthened. we'll keep an eye on him for the next few days. in the context of the application of the legislation in force, you have highlighted three points. i'll dwell on them for a moment. as regards safe havens, the evaluation campaign of the plans for receiving ships in distress carried out by the commission in collaboration with the european maritime safety agency has already been completed. in addition, the agency organised a working day on this issue with national maritime authorities last month, which allowed states to exchange experiences in relation to the implementation of article 20 of the maritime traffic monitoring directive. the results of the evaluation campaign are currently being analysed in detail and the commission will be able to provide parliament, as promised at the time, with a report containing the conclusions of the evaluation and, in addition, the results of a study commissioned by the agency on compensation for damage caused by the use of a shelter by a vessel. from that point onwards, and also taking into account the conclusions of your report, we will eventually evaluate any possible amendments or improvements to the texts adopted. as regards the means of combating pollution, i would like to point out the final approval of the amendments to the regulation of the european maritime safety agency, which extend the powers of the latter to combat marine pollution. the commission will draw the necessary budgetary conclusions. i would therefore urge the european parliament to support the commission's requests for the agency to be given the necessary resources in the debates on the 2005 budget. we also believe that the publication of the blacklist of vessels not authorized to enter union ports is an essential deterrent to such vessels approaching or transiting european coasts. as a preventive measure we are currently considering a reinforcement of this concept. as regards the legislation currently under discussion, i would first of all like to thank you for your support of the proposal for a directive which provides for the imposition of effective criminal sanctions on those responsible for marine pollution incidents. the commission supports its call on the council to take a decision on this matter. in connection with the adoption of the regulation on the international safety management code, which seeks to promote a culture of safety and pollution prevention, the commission would like to thank you for your support at the february plenary session, and i hope that the council will adopt common positions on both issues at its june meeting. as regards the future prospects for maritime legislation, i should like to say that i already gave you some ideas in january, and the commission is currently considering them. i am glad that the report we are discussing today is in line with the approaches and i take note in particular of its ideas on the follow-up to maritime accidents, the strengthening of traffic control in community waters, the intensification of port state controls and the application in the union of minimum criteria in relation to flag states. some of these ideas, such as the reinforcement of the obligations of states to transmit traffic information or the role of the agency in responding to maritime incidents, are part of the prospects you have for the creation of a coastguard service. i have explained the commission's position on this matter on several occasions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of seafarers. this convention was partially incorporated into community law in 2001 with the adoption of the directive on the minimum training requirements for seafarers. with the entry into force of the amendment to the agency's rules of procedure, the agency is given powers to evaluate the training of seafarers provided in third countries. i would like to conclude by stressing the role played by the commission in international relations. this week, on the occasion of the eu-russia summit in the framework of the association and cooperation agreement, we are determined to recall during our visit that, on the occasion of the approval by the international maritime organisation of the amendment to the marpol convention, which includes an accelerated timetable for the elimination of single-hull vessels by april 2005, russia has committed itself to providing for an early implementation of this timetable and to demand that it be implemented. i would remind you that, as has been accepted in the freight sector, the acceleration of the timetable for the phase-out of single-hull tankers and their replacement by double-hull tankers is not at all leading to an increase in freight costs or a shortage of transport capacity. this shows that the commission has done its job well and has proposed ambitious timetables, but adapted to reality. the commission is following closely the work being carried out within the framework of cipol on the modification of the international system of compensation for oil pollution. we regret once again the delay of the council, and i say this clearly, in demanding ratification by the states of the union of these latest agreements, which will delay the availability of these compensations if an accident occurs. summer is coming. i hope that we will not have to face any such tragedy in the coming months. but imagine the scandal if there were a problem and the states had not ratified the latest agreements on the amount of compensation. i would point out that at the meeting of the committee on the protection of the marine environment in london last week, the designation by the imo of the baltic, the canary islands and the galapagos archipelago as particularly sensitive maritime areas was achieved. in my view, this is a great success not only for the commission but for the whole european union, since the adoption of a set of international standards in this area increases the protection of the interests of coastal states against the risk of pollution. we know the importance of the work done within the international maritime organization and therefore i would like to reiterate my gratitude to the european parliament for its support for the community's accession to the imo. in order to promote the application of satisfactory common maritime labour standards, the commission actively supports and encourages the work of the international labour organisation in the process of consolidating all the conventions on international maritime standards, with a view to adopting a single convention to which the community should, in my view, be a contracting party. finally, we are working closely with the international maritime organisation to strengthen the responsibility of the flag state, i.e. the fight against flags of convenience, through the system of audits. once again, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has shown the importance it attaches to the work of the commission. i am particularly grateful to you for the support you have given me and i would like to say, as i did at the beginning of my speech, that this parliament has been the parliament of maritime safety, the parliament in which the european union has finally had the ambition and the determination to really protect its coasts and, moreover, to work in the international arena with determination, will and rigour to ensure that this protection applies not only to our coasts, but to our seas, to all the seas of the world. as i have always said, the sea belongs to all, it is a heritage, a treasure, both for present and future generations of mankind. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, commissioner, thank you for your information and our sincere congratulations on your splendid work during this term of office, which you have defined - and we agree with you - as the term of office for maritime safety, and you have been the protagonist of it. i am glad that you are here today, mr vermeer, although we regret that mr sterckx cannot be here to defend his report. i would ask you to convey to him, on behalf of my group, our congratulations on the laudable and honest effort he has made to present to the house today a report as objective, comprehensive and consensual as possible on a sensitive and difficult subject. i would also like to congratulate mr jarzembowski on his splendid work as president. it is in this spirit of objectivity, rigour and commitment that i too, on behalf of the ppe-de group, have wanted to tackle this question both in committee and now in the house. that is why my group has tabled a few amendments, but they are key because we consider that they touch on significant points and, although we disagree with some of the points - and we would like others to be better reflected - i will limit myself to pointing out those which i consider essential. firstly, our two amendments seek to correct the report's assertions concerning fishing in galicia which are inaccurate and are made lightly, without any foundation, and which could do a lot of damage in the future. my duty here is certainly to contribute to the strengthening of maritime safety. but also to defend the truth and the fisheries and shellfish interests of galicia, and that there should be no doubt about the situation and quality of products of world renown and whose management and conservation before, during and after the prestige has been exemplary. the fishing zones were closed during the accident and opened at the very moment when the excellent galician biologists, sanitarians and technicians, with the rigor of the analyses required by community legislation, advised it. and no one is predicting that this measure will pose any future risk or reduce its profitability, as the market and the research of the prestigious spanish institute of oceanography are demonstrating, with experimental campaigns on their own scientific vessels. the fisheries management system in galicia is a model for many others in the world and we cannot accept that a document from a community institution - which does not specifically concern fisheries but maritime safety - is questioned without foundation and attributed to us by over-exploitation of our resources or overfishing. we do not understand, therefore, that galician members of other political groups could have supported this genuine nonsense in committee by voting in committee, which i hope they will now correct in the house, in the same way as they support our second amendment, which clarifies the current paragraph 51, because the decline in extractive activity, due to the preventive closure of fishing grounds, does not correspond to the final decline in resources, as can be seen on the website of the ministry of fisheries and maritime affairs of the xunta de galicia, www.pescadegalicia.com, where all the updated fisheries statistics for the whole of 2003 by species appear, and where it can be seen that some species that have decreased are caught in international waters and not precisely on the coast of galicia, so they can hardly be affected by the prestige accident. this is the rigor and accuracy we want for the whole of the sterckx report, in defence of our fishing reality in order to support it, as you know is our wish. finally, paragraph 39 is also incorrect. the decision by several eu states to remove 'substandard' - i.e. 'junk' - ships from their exclusive economic zones may be controversial but it has certainly been the most effective since the prestige. until international law is revised, as we demand in our amendment, paragraph 40 today - which is too long - in order to change, among other things, the so-called 'innocent passage' of navigation of these genuine 'floating bombs', the citizens are demanding effective measures from us, measures that are little more effective than those taken by the governments of france and spain, supported by portugal, italy, germany and the council of ministers of the european union. these measures do not make it difficult to assist the garbage ship or its crew, because these ships are escorted by navy vessels, which gives them the best possible means of assistance.
(es) mr president, i too must thank mr sterckx for the excellent report he has produced after the work of the committee in recent months, with the input of the experts who have come from the various countries. the work on the mare commission has enabled us to delve deeper into the prestige disaster, its environmental consequences and the need to make progress in maritime safety. mr sterckx makes an excellent report after the discussions with the experts and the meeting with the captain. it is clear that the decision to move the prestige away was a mistake, and it is therefore urgent to create a network of safe havens - which has already been advanced, as the commissioner has said - on the european coast and, as the report says, to provide it with economic compensation to alleviate the problems, including environmental ones, which are due to the reception of ships carrying dangerous goods. the commission must be more agile and decisive in applying its directives to the member states in the field of maritime safety and must create the appropriate conditions for cooperation at international level. although it is a positive report, our group abstained in the committee vote because it does not include some fundamental issues for the safety of the environment and of the workers at sea. there is an environmental principle which is part of the content which we believe should be adopted in the report: 'whoever pollutes, pays'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the catastrophic events in the mediterranean. the amendment on the dignity of workers, their remuneration and the value of their work must also be supported. we cannot take action without reviewing the situation of workers and without considering over-exploitation and we cannot make 100 per cent progress on safety if we do not really look at the situation of workers and their welfare in the report. the gue group considers these amendments to be essential if this report is to be so positive, if it is to be 100 per cent positive in the end.
mr president, the sterckx report is a positive one, and we would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for it. that is why we voted in favour in committee. but that is not yet what we wanted, and we are therefore waiting for the amendments we have tabled to be adopted. the report should be more firm and unequivocal in denouncing the behaviour and culpable omission of the spanish and galician governments in the prestige disaster, as well as in criticizing the lack of institutional and technical-economic means of the european union to prevent and deal with maritime accidents. it should highlight the indifference and contempt shown by the council and many member states to the demand for effective measures to improve maritime safety and help countries affected by disasters. it should also urgently call on the international maritime organization to acknowledge the culpability of the system of capitalist institutions and companies, which i call 'criminal', which governs maritime traffic, and to demand the necessary measures to protect life and resources at sea and on shore. in any case, against the temptations to forget the catastrophe, it must be said that the prestige is not a problem of the past, but will be a lesson for the future, especially for galicia, the country in the world which has suffered the greatest number of these accidents in the last thirty years. the civic reaction of galician society has made the catastrophe a political problem, also in the european union, giving rise to a democratic movement, intensified in the democratic struggle for peace and against the war in iraq, which has started the path that has led to a democratic change in the spanish state of transcendent importance for all and also for the european union. i remember that date well: it was november 13, the day my third grandson was born. but the threat of disasters like the prestige remains. it is precisely at this moment that the european union must make it clear that it is prepared to repair the effects of the catastrophe which has affected 2000 kilometres of our coast, from minho to brittany, and it is particularly necessary to support and strengthen the galiza plan, a commitment by the state to repair the consequences of the accident which the european union and the new spanish government must fulfil without ambiguity or equivocation, calling it urgent and a priority.
(es) mr president, the european parliament has proved its worth by setting up a temporary committee to analyse the causes and consequences of the prestige oil tanker disaster and to make proposals for improving maritime safety. in this way, this institution exercised its responsibility for political control of what has been and continues to be a european catastrophe which transcends the boundaries of a single member state and in this way parliament assumed its consequences in promoting a policy 'on maritime transport' which corresponds to community and international requirements, although the decisions on implementation are left in the hands of those responsible for the member states. as regards the member states, this parliament has had to endure filibuster manoeuvres and lack of cooperation on the part of the spanish government officials at the time. it is customary practice in the temporary committees of this house for ministers to state their views. this has not been the case and most of the groups have the impression that between 13 and 19 november 2001 hasty and ill-founded decisions were taken which caused an accident to become the biggest ecological catastrophe in europe in recent decades. after five months of hearings, we are still wondering what moved the spanish authorities responsible to order the ship to be put out to sea. as the european parliament said in its resolution last year, this decision has increased the scale of the disaster. my group has tabled several amendments, but i would like to point out, in the light of mr varela suanzes-carpegna's speech, that just as amendment no 2 by the ppe-de group seems to us absolutely superfluous and we have nothing for or against it, amendment no 1 seems to me - especially to me, as a galician and as vice-president of the committee on fisheries - to be irrelevant and, moreover, dangerous, because no one has questioned the rigor of scientific analyses or the health of the food chain. we would not have opposed an amendment to delete the word 'overfishing' if the honourable member really thought it was so serious, although we still consider paragraph 50 in its original form to be completely harmless, since it merely announces the risk, the possibility of overfishing and in no case takes it for granted. but, i repeat, we are not in favour of this at all and will therefore vote against it, because it seems to us extremely dangerous to uncover the ghost now and to call into question the accuracy of scientific analyses and the health of the food chain.
(es) mr president, commissioner, after having followed public information during the prestige crisis and the interventions in the parliamentary information committee, i am of the opinion that the vessel sank for two reasons: first, because of its poor seaworthiness and, second, because of the wrong decision of the spanish authorities of mr aznar's government which, instead of seeking a safe haven, sent the injured tanker into areas of deep sea, with waves over six metres high, until it broke and sank, causing the largest known oil spill in europe. the ship was sailing in inappropriate conditions, and i believe that the shipowner, the captain, the oil company owning the cargo, but above all the abs classification society, whose inspection 'carried out in the port of dubai a quarter before the sinking' had not been properly carried out according to the audit carried out subsequently by the international association of classification societies. this same abs company was the inspector of the vessel panam serena which on 1 january this year was operating in porto torres, sardinia. i therefore tabled an amendment calling on the commission to carry out more effective control and to audit the classification societies and their inspectors on the quality of their work. and also, to attack any kind of collusion or cross-interest relationship that you might have with shipowners, ship owners, oil companies, etc. greater transparency is needed in this and also in the international maritime organization, where a large part of its budget comes from the so-called flag states of convenience, but where the real control is in the hands of other states, some european ones.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the interpreters for their patience and kindness for the unforgivable suffering i have imposed on everybody since my first speech in september 1999. at that time i announced that i would speak neither french nor spanish in plenary while the basque language did not enjoy full recognition in the basque country. now, five years on, the rights of basque speakers are still being ignored. i would therefore ask – in the english language, of course – my french and spanish colleagues to act immediately. i join with other speakers in their positive response to the important work produced by the committee, chaired by mr jarzembowski, and to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr sterckx. the commissioner said that a new report on the future of maritime safety will soon be presented. i hope that this time the commission will emphasise the need for immediate and accurate information in the event of maritime disasters. that was not the case with the prestige, where the interests of the public and in particular of the victims in galicia and the northern part of the iberian peninsula, including the basque country, were completely ignored.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee and also the rapporteur, despite his absence. i am grateful for his work, because when you compare the title and purpose of this temporary committee on the strengthening of maritime safety with some of the many amendments tabled, you get a sense of the difficulty of his work as rapporteur, and you also get the feeling that the political opponents of the party in the government of the autonomous community of galicia and then in the government of the nation in spain were more interested in the partisan and partisan debate and in trying to politically erode and wear down the ruling party than in looking ahead and trying to improve maritime safety effectively and efficiently in its various aspects: social, economic, fisheries, tourism, environment or health. it might seem that we live in different countries because, with some failures, some of which were present at the beginning, as a resident of the region most directly affected, i believe that it can be said that the fishing sector was opened at the right time and with all the possible guarantees, in accordance with the technical and health reports, that, according to the opinion of a large majority of professionals in the sector, the catches have not been affected; that neighbours and tourists who have come, in very large numbers, in the recent holy week to galicia, perhaps with some specific problem, wherever there are any, have found our clean beaches and that aid and benefits have arrived on time and that, moreover, we can all be proud of the solidarity of the citizens, in the certainty that the peoples of europe are resolved to overcome their old divisions and to form a common destiny, as the future preamble of the constitution will show. finally, i shall refer to the purely social aspect, because maritime activity is a human activity, and the maritime professional worker also has the right to work in conditions which respect his health, his safety and his dignity, and also calls for the implementation of measures aimed at dignifying the maritime professions in order to make them more attractive to young people in general and to young europeans in particular. i am grateful to you, mr president, and i am grateful to you, madam commissioner, for all that we have achieved under your leadership and mandate. just a remark, mr president, to say that the situation of captain mangouras is a judicial decision and judicial decisions are respected, whether we like them or not. mr savary, if the political change affected the independence of the judiciary, that would be very serious, because the separation of powers remains a fundamental pillar of democracy.
(es) mr president, commissioner, i am sorry that mr sterckx is not in the house - and i am sure he has good reasons for not being here - but i would like mr vermeer to tell him that this committee is succeeding as a result of the prestige disaster, that we have an excellent commission proposal and an excellent report by mr sterckx on maritime safety. in these circumstances, does parliament ask mr sterckx to submit an own-initiative report on maritime safety? it would make little sense. everyone is aware that what parliament is asking for is a committee of inquiry into the prestige, precisely to clarify what has happened and not to repeat it, to know that ships that are seriously damaged should not be sent to the high seas to sink, but that harbours of refuge should be provided. this committee should have made it quite clear that this should not happen again, that pollution is not free and that not everything is resolved in commercial relations and political dependencies. none of this is in mr. sterckx's report. the experts have been 'squeamish' - not to say 'weary' - and i am sorry that mr sterckx has gone back on his agreement with the epp-ed group so that we now have the president of the house we have. but i have some bad news for mr sterckx: in his investiture report, the spanish prime minister has decided to set up a committee to monitor the prestige. we will be able to continue to clarify and inform despite the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sterckx, who is not here, mr jarzembowski on his excellent work as chairman of the committee and all the honourable members on their speeches and their work to get this committee moving and working. i would start by asking, ladies and gentlemen, that we all be fair and try to be a little fair. if we are to make a criticism, we have to go back much further, because before the prestige, before the erika, unfortunately, the european coasts had been polluted, assaulted, by a series of tremendous accidents. we can remember the amoko cadiz, off the coast of brittany, or the aegean sea, off the coast of galicia, for giving us only two cases, antecedents of the aforementioned that are like two drops of water. then there were tremendous catastrophes and nothing was done, your honours. in that sense, we can be proud that it has now been done. this time it has not happened as in the 1980s and 1990s, when nothing was done, while, for example, the united states, after the exxon valdez, took a series of measures which now allow them to claim that their coasts are much safer, on the basis that there is no such thing as zero risk. i have to say that as a politician, i am only interested in the past to avoid repeating mistakes and to look to the future. it's the future that we're in, and that's what we're working on together. in this sense, we can be satisfied and say that in the future, in the present reality, the european coasts are safer than they were four years ago. we can be satisfied that everyone is involved and the commission is aware of the effort we have made together. it must also be said that the council has taken the appropriate steps forward. but it is true that the decision of the commission and parliament has been much clearer, systematically, than that of the council. i do not mean each of the council countries, because there are different sensitivities, but the council as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. when the time comes for the transposition of a provision to be completed, the state which has not notified the transposition of a provision is called upon to bring legal proceedings before the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg. i have already told you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have already opened a number of procedures in some states. secondly, as regards the reality of internal implementation - even in the case where transposition has been made - we are here today thanks to the european maritime safety agency, whose executive director, mr de ruiter, is doing a magnificent job, carrying out systematic on-the-spot checks, which make it possible to check whether, in addition to incorporating a certain number of rules into national law, they actually correspond to reality. in addition, we will make the corresponding and relevant reports. thirdly, we are asked about the situation of captain mangos. the commission cannot intervene in the judicial systems of the member states. nor can governments intervene in judicial decisions in the member states. there's a separation of powers. i suspect, as has already been pointed out, that a political change in the spanish government will have little impact on the situation of the opinion of the judge in charge. it would be catastrophic and disastrous if the sitting judge obeyed the political impulses of the colour of the sitting government. i would find it regrettable and i'm sure the judge in charge does his job. in doing so, it takes account of the background, such as the fact that the captain of the aegean sea - i would remind this house that this was a ship whose owners were very close relatives of the owners of the prestige, as close as brothers and sisters in law - who was responsible 14 years ago for a catastrophe similar to that of the prestige off the spanish coast, left and did not allow himself to be tried, because he took advantage of his conditional release to simply take the plane and not set foot in spain again. in this case, what happens is that the judge on duty takes his precautions because he has a very specific background that is not at all favorable to the behavior, at least in this case, in a very similar situation, of companies that have a lot to do. as one of the honourable members said a moment ago, although most of the crews, the captains, the officers are sound, reasonable and respectable people, there are exceptions. i shall now turn to the spills. the major catastrophes - if you do the statistics - account for less than 10% of marine pollution. the great pollution - although it is true that it is more diluted and therefore less visible - is the continuous dumping, the cleaning of bilges, the cleaning that unscrupulous ships do on the high seas. in this connection, i would like to thank parliament once again for its support for the commission's proposal to criminalise those who voluntarily pollute our seas in this way. unfortunately, the council is not partisan and that is causing problems. that proposal - as mr poignant said - includes issues such as traceability and sensors to monitor how the large ships that arrive in our ports handle the dumping and cleaning of bilge. and all this is consistent with the measure we have taken previously of port facilities to collect the waste and allow ships arriving in european ports to clean up in those ports. fifthly, i agree with mr ortuondo larrea that the classification societies have a great responsibility. the classification societies must be the guarantor and in that sense mr de ruiter, the european maritime safety agency and also the commission are monitoring and analysing the behaviour, because - as the honourable members know - we have strengthened the responsibility of the classification societies in the wake of the erika disaster and we may even withdraw their ability to recognise and certify ships in european ports. we are in this and i fully agree with its importance, as well as the chain of responsibility that another honourable member has pointed out earlier with regard to the charterer, the shipowner - not just the captain, who also has it - and the various elements in the transport chain. but this must be done not only within the european union but also within the international maritime organization. and that brings us to the sixth point of my speech. we are talking about a totally international and globalised activity. in this respect we can adopt a number of measures at european regional level, but there are others which can only be adopted at international level, or which have real effect only if they are adopted. that is our fight against flags of convenience, although we are already penalizing them in some way, because the selection of ships to be subjected to port controls, the display of certain flags automatically makes that ship a priority target for control and therefore generates more time to moor, more problems, etc. so in a way we are already tackling that problem, but we can only go further when at the global level - which is what we are pushing for - the whole question of audits and responsibility of flag states is clearly reinforced. the minimum standards for crews are also international. in this respect, the international labour organisation must make progress in terms of qualifications and training of seafarers, not only for european crews, but also for international crews who arrive in our ports on ships from third countries and to whom our european rules cannot apply. but it is clear that we require training for sailors and crews of our ships which makes them much safer. it is enough to look at the reality of accidents involving ships flying the european flag and ships from third countries. we must do more in this area and, in fact, during this parliamentary term we have proposed and adopted measures to strengthen and improve the quality of crews and also their honourable character, to make work at sea attractive, to make it a vital option for our young people to embark as a seaman, officer or captain on a merchant ship. in this respect, i believe that, for example, during the greek presidency, a number of initiatives were taken and i hope that there will be a commitment from the british presidency to take up all those initiatives on which we are working to make the seafaring profession more attractive to young people in the european union. you know that the problem of the coastguard is important to the commission, but we know that it is not going to be solved for the time being. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of ships and to improve the safety of the marine environment. we have very recently adopted a regulation to modify the capabilities of this agency, including a capability to manage anti-pollution activities in the event of an accident, so that it can be dealt with with european means in line with the needs that arise, but we have also extended its capabilities in the field of safety, in the sense of sûreté and sécurité. i would therefore be grateful if the funds would support us in the budget debate, because we are discussing the financing for 2005 and we need funds to be able to provide ourselves with the means of anti-pollution, and specifically the cleaning vessels we were talking about. i would like to end with a very clear question, addressed to mr gorostiaga atxalandabaso. look, mr. gorostiaga, your honor knows as well as i do that i'll have a chance to come here. aralar defends the same thing his party defends, only he condemns terrorism. you know, your honour, that your political party has been outlawed by the decision of a judge in spain, not by the decision of a government. it is true that this judge was based on legislation adopted democratically and legitimately by more than 90% of the spanish congress of deputies and that, from that point of view, mr president, his arguments are defensible, but what is not defensible - not only from the point of view of the spanish people, but also from the point of view of europeans - is not condemning terrorism of a very specific colour, that of eta. in this connection, i would remind you that your party has been designated a terrorist organisation within the european union by a decision of june 2003. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i wish to say to the commissioner that, firstly, in spain there is spanish nationalism, and spanish judges are under its influence all the time. we are neither spaniards nor french: we are championing a political course to self-determination for the basque country. we are not championing terrorism of any kind, contrary to what the commissioner said. we are championing a political path for the basque people. if we are in a european union based on democracy, and if the basque people were to decide on a particular political future for their country, everyone should respect that decision. i refute any kind of accusation of complicity with terrorism. the commissioner knows perfectly well that i have never defended in this house any kind of action that could be construed as terrorism.
thank you very much, mr. dhaene. the commissioner informs me that, in view of our timetable - there is a terrible pressure of time before the votes - she is refraining from making any further comments, for which we thank her - and is forwarding to the presidency the amendments which have been accepted and those which have not been accepted, which i have forwarded to the rapporteur, mr cocilovo, so that you can have access to this information, which will also be published in the full minutes of parliament's proceedings tomorrow. this meeting is closed. the hearing will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0216/2004) by mr markov, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the minimum conditions for implementing directive 2002/15/ec and council regulations (eec) no 3820/85 and (eec) no 3821/85 as regards social provisions in the field of road transport (com (2003) 628 - c5-0601/2003 - 2003/0255 (cod)).
- the commissioner, as in the case of the previous report, is renouncing her speech in order to gain time and is sending us the list of amendments which she can accept and those which she cannot accept and which have been sent to the rapporteur. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0249/2004) by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-european road network (5238/1/2004 - c5-0118/2004 - 2002/0309 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr rack).
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i was listening to mr rack present his excellent report and i want to say that, as he has pointed out in his presentation of this second reading, we are trying to improve safety on our roads, an essential point that became clear after the terrible accidents in the alps in 1999 and 2001. but we must remember that last week in the swiss baregg tunnel we again had a fatal accident and once again tunnel fires are one of the most dangerous elements to which we must respond. to prevent such accidents - or at least to minimise their consequences - the commission sent in 2002 the proposal for a directive setting out a series of minimum safety requirements for tunnels. this proposal was supported by parliament, which had adopted several resolutions on the subject. i would also like to say that the council has welcomed these proposals and to point out that they are part of the initiatives taken at the united nations in its european regional area on transport. and i would like to say above all that, if the will of parliament has always been of enormous support, so has been the will of the council, and that all this has allowed, at last, after fifteen months of discussions, for a full agreement to be reached between the three institutions and that, therefore, this text - which will be voted on tomorrow in parliament - will soon see the light of day. i would like to point out that the work of parliament, which has studied the commission's proposal in detail, and which has tabled 78 highly technical amendments at first reading, shows its knowledge and dedication. the majority of these have been incorporated in the amended proposal submitted by the commission, and the council did the same in its common position of 26 february. i would like to thank mr rack and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism for their thorough work on this very technical text, and for always doing so in a constructive and effective manner throughout the procedure. the engineers responsible for tunnel safety in the member states of the union now have a long task ahead of them to implement what has been agreed in all the tunnels of the union, and therefore the states of the union must also make an effort to improve safety on our roads in these vulnerable points which are the tunnels. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity very briefly to thank, as i said, mr rack, but also mr markov, to whom i have not replied before, but whom i would like to congratulate on the work he has done on the question of driving time and on the question of safety and controls, because only if we have good controls will we have a reality as regards limits. if there are no checks, we can say what we want, but they will not be carried out. your honour knows the effort we have made with regard to digital tachographs. you will receive a letter shortly on this subject, indicating the decisions we have taken which will enable the installation of this type of tachograph to begin in some countries as from next july. i would like to congratulate mr cocilovo on what he has achieved and, in general, i would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to thank all the members of the committee on transport for the extraordinary cooperation we have developed over the years, which has enabled us to adopt a number of key measures to boost the transport sector in the european union: safer, more competitive transport, the reality of the internal market, the reality of the environment and the reality of sustainable development with transport serving the growth and well-being of european citizens. i would like to mention very briefly the adoption of the first railway package - tomorrow we will discuss the second railway package which will enable the establishment of a european railway at last - the adoption and implementation of a single european sky which will make the modernisation of the management of our european space a reality, integrating - as in the railway sector - our space and making air and rail space a european space; the adoption of all the maritime safety measures which we have discussed throughout this morning; the promotion, implementation and final launch of the galileo project, which will make europe a technological leader capable of competing at all levels in the area of the most technologically advanced space sector; the revision of the trans-mediterranean area which, after our colossal joint work, i hope will be definitively adopted tomorrow; and if these issues have been emblematic, i do not want to forget that we will also adopt some international measures, such as the creation of safety, air safety, air safety, safety, and all the other measures proposed by the european union, in the field of maritime safety, in the sense of supporting the railway sector, or in the sense of international agreements, as much as in the creation of the safety, for example, maritime safety, air safety, air safety, safety, and all the other forms of cooperation with the european union. mr president, despite the movement and the noise, i would like to thank you for all the work you have done together and say that we can be reasonably satisfied that we have not wasted time but have contributed to the building of a more balanced, better developed europe, at the service of the citizens and with a global outlook. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, madam commissioner, for your brilliant and excellent speech, but we still have two speeches left to listen to carefully and one day we may have to apply the european noise regulations in this chamber because there is a lot of noise in the chamber at this time. i give the floor to mr lisi on behalf of the ppe-de group.
- we agree with mr swoboda's words, which probably represent a large majority, if not the whole commission and parliament. we thank you for your efforts today and throughout the years. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
(es) mr president, with the announcement you have just made, there are three items on the agenda on the same subject if i am not mistaken. on the one hand, mrs stauner's report; on the other, the decision - proposed by the ppe - to request a statement from the commission, with a resolution, on the eurostat case; and, finally, there is a motion of censure tabled by a section of the ppe - i do not know whether the whole group would be well advised to know this. that is three items on the same agenda. i think that in order to streamline parliament's work, it would be appropriate for us to discuss everything together or to abolish the eurostat subject. secondly, mr president, this is a very important question: in accordance with rule 34 of the rules of procedure, i would ask you to state which treaties are applicable to the examination of the motion of censure, because we are currently working with a parliament with members from 15 member states. on 3 may we shall be voting with members from 25 states and an enlarged commission. i think this is an important constitutional issue. i am not talking about the new commissioners, who will be greeted by a motion of censure, but i think it is important to settle this matter before we proceed to the examination and vote on the motion of censure. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i should like to comment on mr voggenhuber's report. i note that a number of fundamental rights are not included in the draft constitution. my colleague and member of the same group as myself, mr voggenhuber, was a member of the convention. this is the principle of the legal equality of languages. it is about the right to self-determination. finally, a flagrant violation of fundamental rights occurred in the spanish state by the closure of the basque newspaper egunkaria. this question is not mentioned in the text either. i regret that, and since the chairman of my group called me an idiot for having signed the motion of censure, i took the liberty of not following the voting instructions given to me by my group on this matter and abstained.
(es) mr president, the wynn report we are discussing is a first response to the commission's communication on the new financial perspectives. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the budget. i think that the european parliament is once again missing an opportunity to express clear positions on key budgetary issues. he already did on the occasion of the convention. the socialists have always been in favour of deepening the european construction because we believe that this is beneficial for all citizens. more europe means more benefits for all and everywhere. for us, europe is a game of positive sums. we socialists prefer a europe of citizens to a europe of states. that is why we have proposed on many occasions that the taxpayers should be the citizens and not the states. i would like to remind you of joan colom, whom we all know, who repeatedly said that it did not seem fair to him that a rich spaniard should pay less tax to europe than a german worker. that is what is happening with the current system of own resources. for this reason, and because we believe that the tax principles which apply in our countries must also be applied at union level, we are going to vote as a spanish socialist delegation, and i say it clearly here, in favour of the amendment tabled by the french socialists.
(es) mr president, first of all i would like to thank the former commissioner, michel barnier, for the reference he has made to the good work we have done with him in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism in defending the principles of regional policy and territorial cohesion of the european union. i am grateful to him for mentioning me and i wish him success in his role as head of the french republic's foreign affairs. i am grateful to the former chairman of the committee, mr kostas hatzidakis, who, in addition to his excellent term as chairman of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, has presented us today with a report on economic, social and territorial cohesion in europe. and i feel obliged to remind you of the abc of cohesion. cohesion is an old principle, enshrined in the treaties, which we now call territorial cohesion, in addition to economic and social cohesion. economic cohesion is achieved in many ways: by fiscal policy, by the more the better. social cohesion is achieved by other means: by fighting social exclusion, by establishing the principle of equal opportunities for citizens. what we have always talked about is territorial cohesion, that those territories which have permanent structural difficulties to compete in this market should have the support and solidarity of all the others, regardless of their gdp. this is the case - as commissioner fischler of the agricultural policy knows very well. we, in helping agriculture, do not ask whether the farmer is rich or poor. we support agriculture, we want the whole sector to be competitive. this same reasoning should be the basis for territorial cohesion policy. we must help the islands, which have difficulty in competing on equal terms with the large cities, which always have the highest levels of income. we must help the depopulated regions of northern europe and we must help the mountain areas to emerge from their slumber, so that we do not lose the pyrenees, or force people to emigrate who have to live in geographical areas with difficulties. we should therefore call for the new dimension of europe with the accession of ten new member states to take account of the fact that our contribution to overall cohesion must remain at 0.46% of gdp, as parliament and the commission agree and as the council should agree. there are initiatives which have been very successful: the equal, leader, urban, interreg programmes and, above all, the cohesion fund. the four countries that have so far benefited from the cohesion fund - spain, portugal, greece and ireland - have shown that by growing, they have made the european union grow. it is essential to continue to think that the additional effort to be made to welcome the new ten member states will not be borne solely by the four countries which have so far benefited from the cohesion fund, but that it will be a solidarity effort in which we all lend a hand to those who come.
(es) mr president, i would like to record the affection and appreciation which i personally and my group have felt for the work of mr barnier and i therefore refer to the words of all the speakers who have gone before me. we agree with the basic lines drawn up by the commission on the proposal of mr barnier. we agree with the minimum of 0.45% for the three objectives to be incorporated into the lisbon-gothenburg cohesion and employment objectives, and with the proposal of the college of commissioners of 1.24%. it is disappointing that the rapporteur, representing the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, does not dare to defend the 1.24% proposed by the commission and that our proposal is therefore lower than that of the college of commissioners. it is really disappointing and i do not understand it, although we have tabled amendments to it. i would like to stress two fundamental factors, since there is a profound agreement with the commission's proposal. the first is the outermost regions. we must try to maintain deep aid in these regions regardless of their per capita income. it is not the same to have 75% on the continent and 75% 3,000 km from the european union. finally, i would like to stress the importance for this house of upholding criteria of fairness such as that the statistical effect does not affect in a negative way any institution which is receiving european funds. we have defended it and the college of commissioners for the regions has proposed it. this parliament has no obstacles. anyone who says otherwise is lying, to send a message that the statistical effect cannot affect the states which are reducing the cohesion fund either. i know a country that is at 83% of the median income and that by statistical effect will go to 92%. the limit is 90. mr hatzidakis, be flexible from today until the time of the vote.
mr president, i would like to take this short time to express my surprise and criticism at the fact that in the debates in this parliament the hard reality of cohesion policy losing its character in a union of 25 states is being forgotten and disregarded. it will be drastically impoverished. after enlargement, and if the financial perspectives set by the council for the period after 2006 are maintained and even if the ones presented by the commission are applied, the funds devoted to education policy per capita in the objective 1 territory will be only 50% of those used in the union of fifteen. i would remind you that, with the enlargement to ten new member states, the population living in territories with an income per head of less than ... % of the community average will rise from the present 73 million people, or 19%, to 153 million people, or 32%, of the union of twenty-seven member states. with this enlargement, the population will increase by 28% while gdp will only grow by 6%. for those of us who believe in the need for a social europe, and for me as a galician, this is absolutely unacceptable, all the more unacceptable as the enlargement countries do not achieve more than 40% of the average income per head in the 15 member states and when among the current member states there is still a clear need to maintain the structural funds at the level of previous years.
(es) mr president, mr hatzidakis, i congratulate you again on your report. you know that we agree 99 per cent and i thank you above all for keeping your word that ageing should be taken into account in some way - we shall see how - for the development of the funds. you have mr pomés ruiz at your side, who also incorporated this issue in his report, and this shows that you are perfectly aware of what ageing and low population density mean. ladies and gentlemen, there is no cohesion without development, there is no development without a productive population, and if there is low population density and ageing, there is no way there can be a productive population. ageing is not a territorial problem, but a horizontal problem affecting all regions of europe and all states, and it will become even more important in the coming years. it is a major element of underdevelopment in those regions which suffer from it. i therefore ask the pse group to withdraw its amendment no 8, which could be an obstacle to the inclusion of ageing as a negative factor in development.
the rapporteur. we are now in the final stage of the budgetary procedure of the current legislature. the parliament which will vote on this report tomorrow will not be the same parliament which will vote in december on the final adoption, if it is adopted, of the 2005 budget. i hope that at least my colleagues in the committee on budgets and myself will be able to vote in december together with our new colleagues from the ten member states. thank you to the colleagues and officials for the spirit of collaboration i've found so far. we have taken a further step in the modernisation of the budgetary procedure. after the debate on stocktaking and the change in presentation towards an activity budget, the european parliament is now replacing the old budgetary guidelines with a resolution on the annual strategy report. the aim is to improve the legislative procedures and to be able to influence the drawing up of the commission's preliminary draft budgets. we therefore ask the commissioner to take account of our political and budgetary priorities in her negotiations with the various directorates-general. we have tried to draw up a shorter resolution than in previous years and i am afraid that, like in previous years, we have failed in this task. i am, however, very pleased with the contributions of my colleagues. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the views of the other parliamentary committees will be taken into account during the first reading of the budget. commissioner, this draft budget for 2005 has one very distinctive feature: the budgetary constraint affecting categories 3, 4 and 5. this budgetary constraint will affect many programmes and will require an effort to improve the distribution of budgetary appropriations between permanent functions and new priorities. we believe that the new needs will require new resources. in agriculture, we ask the commission to give an opinion on the pilot projects and initiatives started in the 2004 budget. in the structural funds we highlight the better implementation of payment appropriations in 2003, despite the fact that we maintain a very high gni. the rapporteur's intention is to establish the final volume of payment appropriations in accordance with the member states' forecasts. the european parliament expressed its concern about the achievement of the medium-term objectives set in lisbon. we therefore call for the budgetary resources to be concentrated on the key actions in 2005. we will pay particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, the engines of employment and growth. the european parliament also expresses its concern about the implementation of the information and communication policy. the new financial regulation cannot be an obstacle to the development of this policy. the main objective of this budget will be to consolidate the european area of security, freedom and justice. we will pay special budgetary attention to the common immigration policy and to the accelerated implementation of the integrated schengen systems and the vis project. both will require strong budgetary appropriations, but this parliament would not be responding to the concerns of the european citizens if we did not respond quickly to these priorities. here, commissioner, we'll be with you. we will also respond fully to the challenge of the fight against terrorism, especially after the terrible attack of 11 march in madrid, to whose victims we will dedicate our efforts so that this monstrosity is never repeated in europe. that is why we will support the pilot project on aid to victims of terrorism, the strengthening of europol and eurojust, its directive on compensation for victims of crime and other initiatives that may reach this house. in short, in the fight against terrorism the european parliament will not only be with the council and the commission, but we will try to be even ahead of you. in foreign policy we shall be more involved in the reconstruction of iraq and the consolidation of democracy in afghanistan, without forgetting any of the traditional geographical priorities of this house. we are adding this year the new neighbourhood policy, the establishment of a european diplomacy and the creation of a european external action service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, commissioner, we take note of the 700 posts you are requesting and we hope that you can still make an effort to reallocate them. i would like to conclude by saying that we will be very vigilant with regard to the various agencies and we will ask them for a medium-term programming which the commission should be able to present in the preliminary draft budgets for may on the development of all these agencies. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the 2005 budget will be the first budget for the enlarged union to be adopted by an enlarged budgetary authority. the commission will adopt the preliminary draft budget for 2005 next week. the first reading in the council in july will be held under the dutch presidency with 25 member states already, and the first reading in parliament in october will be with members from 25 member states. the 2005 budget will therefore see many new faces, not least in the commission. but it is nevertheless clear that the 2005 budget will be entirely in the light of enlargement, and the rapporteur-general, mr garriga polledo, also emphasises this in his report. i would like to thank you very much for your report, mr garriga polledo, especially as you have been working under very strong time pressure due to the postponement of the commission's communication on the 2005 political strategy. the 2005 budget should implement the agreements in the accession treaties. in practice, this means that for the first time direct payments to farmers in the new member states are to be recorded. in concrete terms, this means that the financial commitments from the structural funds will increase, as agreed in copenhagen. the structural funds are the main instrument through which the european union provides financial assistance to the new member states to reduce the economic gap and should remain the main instrument of cohesion policy in the future. i will report to you on the state of play of the programming of the structural funds for the new member states at the conciliation before the first reading of the 2005 budget. the political priority of enlargement is also reflected in administrative expenditure: the commission will as described in the 2002 communication and just mentioned by your rapporteur-general request the next tranche of additional posts for enlargement. this is 700 new posts, of which about half are for language services. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is designed to ensure that the community's bananas are not used for the production of bananas. mr kuckelkorn has dealt with this in depth in his report, and i should like to thank you, mr kuckelkorn, for your report. finally, for the enlargement priority, the commission also proposes an increase in preaccession aid for turkey, bulgaria and romania, as decided by the council and supported by parliament. giving a new impetus to economic growth in europe is a task for the member states and the union that will shape the coming years. the enlargement itself will give an economic impetus. but additional efforts are needed to exploit the potential of the enlarged internal market. the eu budget is providing financial support not only through the structural funds but also, for example, through the transeuropean networks, which will see an increase next year. the proposed funding for the establishment of, for example, a chemical testing agency is also essential if the new approach in chemicals policy to test waste materials for their environmental and health effects is not to become a bureaucratic hindrance to the chemical industry but, on the contrary, to accelerate innovation. the terrible events of september 11, 2001, and the cruel terrorist attack in madrid, spain, have made the danger of terrorism clear. we need more and more effective cooperation in the european union to protect our citizens from such dangers. the measures in this area are another priority for the 2005 budget, and i note that all the institutions agree on this too. the european union's internal security and its external role cannot be separated. the foreign policy budget is again facing a particular challenge in 2005. the adjustment is less than the rate of inflation. this means that the budget for foreign policy will be reduced in real terms. this is in stark contrast to all political assertions and in stark contrast to the spirit of the constitution, which we hope will be adopted in the next few weeks. it is impossible to ignore the fact that the ceiling for foreign policy was set too low. this mistake must not be repeated in the next financial planning. but we must nevertheless safeguard the important priorities, such as the fight against poverty, the commitments in afghanistan and also in the balkans, as mr garriga polledo has just mentioned. for next year we will again need the flexibility reserve to provide funds for iraq. let us all hope and contribute to the fact that the reconstruction of the country will then really be on the agenda of iraqi politics. 2005 is the sixth year, i.e. the penultimate year of the current financial perspective. at the end of a financial year, the margin of manoeuvre is increasingly narrowing, as more and more funds are already committed by decisions taken in previous years. in 2005, the margin is particularly tight because, as mentioned, the adjustments are less than originally envisaged in some areas. the current financial perspective for 2005 provides for commitment appropriations of eur 119 billion and payment appropriations of eur 114 billion, corresponding to a share of gni of 1.09%. the decisions taken in previous years - the agenda 2000 decisions, the accession treaties, the multiannual programmes, the roadmaps and the agricultural reform, which will have a full impact next year with increased costs of around eur 1 billion - have largely exhausted the ceilings. it will require good cooperation from all sides to reach agreement on the 2005 budget in time. the commission will continue to work closely with the rapporteurs and the committee on budgets of the european parliament and with the committee on budgets of the council under the dutch presidency, as it has done in previous years. i will of course also personally put my ambition to work together very well and effectively, as we have done in the past, to draw up and adopt a budget which will make a significant contribution to the tasks of the enlarged union. 0 other
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. (es) mr president, after thanking the rapporteur-general for his report, i would like to reiterate to the commission the traditional position of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, which i am glad has been endorsed by mr garriga polledo, that we cannot, madam commissioner, continue to finance new priorities - and i am thinking clearly of the commitments on afghanistan and iraq - to the detriment of other geographical areas such as tacis, the mediterranean, latin america and asia. i would like to recall briefly the priorities of the committee on foreign affairs: the fight against poverty and in favour of human rights and the priorities of the european security strategy, which are the fight against terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, disintegrated states, the fight against organised crime and regional conflicts. i have followed with concern the adjustments that need to be made to bring the 2005 budget into line with the requirements of the financial perspective and i hope, madam commissioner, that the offer of cooperation that you have made to the committee on budgets and the council's presidency in office will also be extended to the committee on foreign affairs, since we are working towards a visible and effective european external action.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the current crisis. (es) mr president, this 2005 budgetary year will be characterised by two main agricultural themes: on the one hand, a european union of 25 member states from the beginning of the budget, as the commissioner has rightly said, and on the other hand, the implementation of certain provisions adopted in the reform of the common agricultural policy which are now coming into force, such as direct aid to milk producers, or aid for rice without the old penalties, and aid for nuts, durum wheat quality and energy crops. it is therefore necessary that the commission, in the preliminary draft budget, anticipates some of the consequences of this enlargement, providing sufficient funds for, for example, intervention measures for certain products, such as butter or beef, in the event that the new member states cannot achieve an early alignment of their prices, or, for example, veterinary funds against epizootic diseases, which could be increased after the disappearance of the present frontiers. finally, i would like to stress that the committee on agriculture, in its opinion for this report, has expressed strong support for the introduction of a pilot project for the financing of community insurance to alleviate the consequences of catastrophes caused by extreme weather events.
commission. mr president, the commission would like to thank parliament for the opportunity to clarify once more the actions that it has taken after being informed in may 2003 about the serious events at eurostat and at some of its contractors, most of which had occurred – as investigations have shown – in the period up to 1999. as soon as the commission had evidence of the problems in eurostat, it took action. the director-general and all the directors were moved to advisory posts while the commission conducted a thorough investigation into who was directly involved. the commission launched an internal audit service examination of eurostat contracts and grants. following the reports by the ias and the special task force, contractual relations between eurostat and other commission departments and certain organisations were brought to an end. olaf (european anti-fraud office) was encouraged to conclude, as soon as possible, outstanding enquiries there. the commission was determined to rectify and strengthen its relevant rules and practices, and to fully implement the staff and financial reform begun in 2000. as the house will know, on 25 september 2003 commission president prodi presented his action plan to a meeting of the conference of presidents, enlarged to include members of the committee on budgetary control. this action plan had three basic components: first, thorough restructuring of the eurostat directorate-general; second, consolidation of the reform regarding relations between commissioners, their private offices and services, and centre-periphery relations in the area of control and audits; third, revision of olaf's legal framework, with the presentation of new legislative proposals. mr prodi provided further clarification of his undertakings when, in november 2003, he presented the commission's legislative and work programme for 2004 to the european parliament. in the meantime, the commission has further discussed matters concerning this case with parliament and its bodies and has expanded on its plans. one main forum for these discussions involved the committee on budgetary control when the follow-up to the 2001 discharge was dealt with and when information was provided on the commission reforms. however, the continuing concern of the committee on budgets as to the progress of the reform has been of considerable help, most recently at its meeting in early april this year. the commission welcomed the efforts made by the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs theato, to help ensure better understanding of the causes for concern. the work undertaken by mrs avilés perea, mr casaca, mr bösch and other members of the committee helped the commission to implement suggestions that have improved our action. on 1 october 2003, with these proposals in mind, the commission adopted the new eurostat establishment plan. that plan was put into operation, as planned, on 1 november. on 21 january 2004, the commission was informed of the action plan for eurostat's activities in 2004, put in place at mr solbes' initiative. on 9 february 2004, the commission adopted the communication providing a progress report on its financial and administrative reform, which includes a specific section on the measures that the president had presented on 18 november 2003, as well as proposals for two regulations amending the legal framework of olaf. the commission acknowledges the careful and thorough monitoring work undertaken by parliament and its bodies in the discharge process, and in its other monitoring activities, with regard to the eurostat case. it is grateful for the concern and commitment that the committee on budgetary control continues to demonstrate in relation to the implementation of the commission reform. both are essential. with comprehensive modernisation of structures, systems, internal controls and management and personnel policy now in place, the commission will continue to review actions taken and improvements made, so as to maximise the safeguards against any repetition of the practices detected in eurostat or any similar conduct. we are being aided by the sustained and shared commitment of parliament to that end and we are grateful for that support.
the rapporteur. (es) mr president, it is obvious to everyone that we are dealing with a function - the approval of financial management - which is parliamentary in nature, according to the treaty. i would like to remind you that the work of thousands of officials in the commission and other institutions is being judged at the moment, but this is also an opportunity to highlight the most significant developments in the field of financial management. i would also point out that the subject of analysis is financial management and not each of the specific issues raised by that management, and even any irregularities are dealt with by the various courts or judicial authorities. the report i have the honour of presenting has, as is the custom, three important documents. on the one hand, the house is being asked to approve the accounts and, on the other hand, it is being asked to approve the management, rather than postpone it, accompanied by a number of recommendations which constitute a resolution covering a wide range of aspects, some of which i shall briefly discuss. firstly, there is the problem of shared management. the commission, according to the treaties, is solely responsible for financial management, but it is no less true that 80 per cent of this financial management is in the hands of or is carried out with the very important and vital collaboration of member states or third states. the proposal is therefore to read the treaties in such a way as to recognize the primacy of the commission and to give it the means to require the member states to take specific action. the report also deals with the question of reforming the commission. a substantial reform of financial management involving decentralisation of financial management and the conferral of responsibility on the directors-general, which is reviewed each year in the annual activity report. this mechanism has been improved over the years and this report suggests further improvements. the commission's reform also raises the question of eurostat. we have just heard a statement from the commission and unfortunately this matter is not closed, but is in the hands of the judicial authorities, which could in future raise a question of political responsibility, so we must remain vigilant. but it is also true that eurostat has been the catalyst for some important reforms undertaken by the commission, and amongst them has been the detection of some of the shortcomings that existed, such as the relationship between directors-general and commissioners, which has been considerably strengthened in the third commission progress report and on which substantial improvements can still be expected. in the context of this general reform of the commission, we are also witnessing an accounting reform, an important reform which must make compatible a dual system of budgetary management inspired by the cash and capital accounting criteria. the gradual approach being taken and proposed seems to us to be satisfactory. we have to wait until 2005. improvements have been introduced, such as invoice registration or contractor registration. the problems of coordination between the various control structures and, basically, the establishment, within the directorates-general, of the relationship between the internal audit service and the commissioners are also addressed. the internal audit service is subordinate to the presidency and it is proposed that it should remain in the presidency. a link between internal audit capabilities and the internal audit service is also proposed. it also suggests the separation of budgetary and budgetary control functions. the commission has also proposed a more direct link between the various policies analysed and the net contributors and the rest of the countries. the existence of a tax, the existence of a direct link between european citizens and the commission and the european institutions would foster the conscience of the european union and would mitigate that tension between what some give and what others receive. the committee also stressed the need to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the community. finally, in dealing with administrative expenditure, the problems of invalidity pensions and sick leave are addressed. i would like to include in the acknowledgement of my efforts bent adamsen and marianella martínez, who have helped me, and the executive commission and the european court of auditors for their cooperation.
commission. the taiex operation has been up and running for about six months, and a seminar for the countries in the region was held last autumn. it is an extremely important part of the strategy we have been developing since the thessaloniki european council. we have worked with both croatia and slovenia to try to facilitate the settlement of their disagreements. clearly, this is principally a matter for them, but we stand ready to use our good offices where these might be helpful. this is something that both commissioner verheugen and i have already been involved in. in my experience, parliaments always want to be taken even more seriously than they are, and sometimes even more seriously than they deserve. that was at least true of a parliament of which i was once a member. however, this parliament in particular deserves to be treated very seriously, not least as its mandate draws to a close.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- the next item is the debate on the question of question time (b5-0071/2004). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. the first part
question no 25 by michl ebner (h-0160/04) subject: liberalisation of the electricity market - concessions for large water-supply projects for the production of hydroelectricity the existence of different schemes creates imbalances and puts an almost unbearable pressure on the heterogeneous market for those member states which have already set precise deadlines for the transfer of concessions, thereby creating a risk of undermining the liberalisation process for part of the electricity market. in view of this, can the commission say whether it is considering any measures to remedy this situation? in italy, some provinces have set a near-term deadline (2005) for the submission of concession applications. does the commission not think that it would be appropriate to harmonize the treatment of these cases?
the commission (es) minimum standards are guaranteed by the transposition of the directives themselves, now also of the regulation by the various states of the union, which is carefully analysed by the commission to see that they are respected and that this transposition is done in such a way that these minimum standards are included. in any case, we will continue to make regular analyses of the actual implementation of the measures adopted and, of course, - i repeat - if a member state does not implement, does not develop properly the directives and regulations and does not implement them properly, the honourable member can be sure that we will take the matter to the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg, as we did in some cases where there was a delay, for example, in the implementation of the gas directive or simply a transposition not in accordance with the content of the directive itself. in both cases we appealed to this court and we have settled the matter amicably with the states concerned, without the need for a lengthy procedure. i can tell you that we will certainly use all our resources to ensure that the opening up to competition is achieved, but also that the integration of markets into a european market is achieved.
the commission (es) i hope that, although a few months late, it can be carried out. the iberian market is a very ambitious bet. there is even a merger of some of the bodies and, moreover, i believe that recently some well-known person has been appointed or elected who will do a magnificent job in his new responsibilities for development, namely portuguese, as the former minister of economy of the portuguese government knows very well, and i hope that it will soon be a reality. i hope that this will help to facilitate not only an integrated iberian market but also the integration of the iberian market into the european market as a whole. we have already spoken of other chapters, both of infrastructure connecting the iberian peninsula with the rest of the continent via france, which is needed, and also of the regulation we have adopted, the implementation of which i hope will facilitate trade. the voluntary agreements which have been put in place are working very positively and are greatly facilitating trade in the electricity sector. our new target is gas, which is the subject on which parliament, the council and the commission are currently working.
- thank you, chief. i welcome this iberian brotherhood in the electricity market. that is always good news for europe.
- question no 26 by linda mcavan (h-0186/04):the eu's multi-stakeholder forum on csr will publish its final report with proposals for action at the end of june. can the commission state how soon after the publication of the report it can be expected to reply to these proposals for action and what form that reply will take? when can the european parliament expect to receive the forum's report and the commission's reply officially?
commission. we shall try to comply with the requests for invitations and draft proposals.
- question no 27, by carlos lage (h-0193/04):on: closure of bombardier's european plants the canadian group bombardier recently announced that it intended to close seven of its european production units - amadora in portugal, derby pride park, doncaster and wakefield in the united kingdom, ammendorf in germany, kalmar in sweden and even pratteln in switzerland. these measures are part of the company's restructuring plan, which includes the laying-off of 6,600 employees worldwide over the next two years, 86% of them in europe. in portugal, the closure of the bombardier factory in amadora will result in the unemployment of some 400 people, while affecting the economic survival and employment prospects of a number of other companies linked to bombardier. at a time when major rail projects are being prepared, strategic intervention is needed to ensure that bombardier or other companies in the same sector can maintain their activities in the eu and thus secure a significant capital for maintaining employment and developing technology. what measures does the commission propose to take in this area? is the commission not concerned about the dramatic consequences of the closure of bombardier in portugal?
commission. yes, i shall ask the observatory to have a look at unemployment in the railway sector and the industries connected with it.
- thank you very much, mr. dimas. we have now concluded the half hour of urgent questions and we now move on to the second part. the commission has accepted a single question for mrs schreyer and then there are several questions for mr bolkestein. i give the floor to mr färm, who has a point of order.
- we cannot enter into a debate on this issue now. i will take note of that and we will send this communication to the commission. as you know, the questions in part three will not be answered orally, but in writing. we shall now resume the agenda and i promise you that we will take this into account. mrs schreyer will answer the next question. question no 2 by mr schreyer
question no 28 by ulla margrethe sandbæk, adopted by glenys kinnock (h-0158/04) subject: follow-up of pilot projects and conversion to multiannual programmes what criteria does the commission use when assessing the possibilities of converting pilot projects into preparatory actions and multiannual programmes? with regard to the pilot projects included in the budget for the financial years 2003 and 2004, can the commission confirm that it will submit to parliament, via the preliminary draft budget for 2005, an assessment of the results and the planned follow-up of each of these pilot projects?
commission. the means for continuing the preparatory action on the pilot project, which had started, will be in the budget proposal. as you know, the interinstitutional agreement contains clear provisions as to how much can be made available for preparatory actions. we will leave a margin for this purpose in category 3, so that when there are new preparatory actions as a first step for pilot projects, there will be the means and a margin available. in the last two years there were good preliminary discussions between the commission and parliament on ideas for preparatory actions and pilot projects. that exercise was successful and i hope that we can continue in this way.
- thank you very much, mrs. schreyer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this.
- question no 29 by othmar karas (h-0159/04):on: study of the impact of the new basel convention on small and medium-sized enterprisesat the barcelona european council in march 2002, the commission was invited to launch a study on the impact of the new basel convention on small and medium-sized enterprises. problems with the tendering process already caused delays last year. the commission has given a commitment in the economic committee that the results will be available by the end of 2003. it is now march 2004, and the results are not yet known. why have the results of the sme survey not yet been officially published? are the results already available to the commission? if so, why does the commission hesitate to publish them? what are the results? when will the proposals for directives for the new basel convention be available? what are the critical points on which there is still no agreement in the brussels committee?
commission. as parliament knows, the european union process to review the capital requirements rules is taking place in parallel with the review of the international rules being carried out by the basel committee on banking supervision. as i recently told parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, the commission continues to make good progress on this matter. it is intended to put forward a proposal for a directive to be adopted shortly after final agreement is reached in basle by the middle of this year. furthermore, in response to the request by the european council in barcelona in march 2002, the commission commissioned an impact study and report from pricewaterhouse coopers. the final version of this report has now been made available to the commission. its conclusions are positive. the new risk-sensitive framework will be good for financial institutions, good for consumers and good for the economy as a whole, with a more efficient allocation of capital. the report also identifies some defined areas where the proposals contained in the commission's third consultative paper should be further improved. that work is under way. arrangements are also in hand for the report to be discussed with interested members of parliament very shortly. the key factor is that the report should be made available in good time to inform the european legislative process. that will be the case. the last part of mr karas' question concerns the issues on which there is still no agreement in the basel committee. as regards the basel agreement, only a few issues remain to be finalised by the middle of this year. these include the question of the treatment of undrawn credit card lines, recalibration in the light of the madrid decision to move to an unexpected-loss-only approach and what is termed the 'stress loss given defaults' question. i am confident that those issues will be resolved by june. the commission's proposal for a directive will be complete and stable.
commission. the timetable i discussed with parliament at various times will be adhered to. the basel committee expects to reach a conclusion by the middle of this year. shortly thereafter the commission will put forward a proposal for a directive, to be discussed under the system of codecision. the report by pricewaterhouse coopers has now been made available to the commission and it will be brought to the notice of parliament very shortly. it is indeed true that time for the present parliament is short but i can do no more than tell parliament that the results of that study will be brought to the attention of parliament very shortly. i am afraid that mr karas and other members of parliament will have to take it as it is. i cannot work on the study any faster but i look forward to discussing these issues, if not before the parliamentary elections then after the summer, even though personally i would be more than happy to discuss with interested members of parliament, elections or no elections, the implications of the pricewaterhouse coopers study.
commission. as i said earlier in reply to a question from mr karas, the pricewaterhouse coopers study will be made available very shortly and its results are positive: it takes a positive view of the impact of the basel agreement on small- and medium-sized enterprises. for example, there are discounts in the capital charges for lending to smaller entities. sme loans below a certain threshold – namely eur 1 million – may be included in the retail portfolio, which has lower capital requirements. the results of the third impact study show that the new rules are good news for loans to smes. as far as venture capital is concerned, there is wide acceptance that such investments have a higher level of risk, which is why it is called risk capital. the capital requirements proposed in our third consultation paper reflect that higher level of risk. at the same time, we have been working with industry to see whether there are data that may suggest that for certain types of investment lower requirements may be justified. we have not yet finalised our proposals in this regard, but, overall, it is recognised in many circles that the results of the basel exercise – as it is now known – are beneficial for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
(es) mr president, i would ask mr bolkestein to take this initiative forward and to start work on this study and the proposal for a directive as soon as possible. we must remember that smes are the largest employers in the european union and, in my region, the valencian country, they are the largest employers. we believe that all measures are necessary to strengthen the role of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union and therefore we ask the commission to ensure that this proposal for a directive - which, among other things, would have to deal with the tax differences between the member states, leading to their harmonization - clearly benefits small and mediumsized enterprises, which, i repeat, are the largest employers in our european union.
commission. i agree entirely with the statement that employment depends on the health of smes. the commission will do its best to bring the proposed directive to the notice of parliament as quickly as possible. therefore, we shall do what the honourable member has just asked.
- i would remind you that today is the last question time of this parliamentary term and i am very much interested, as you are, in having all the questions answered. i therefore ask you in general - i am not thinking of any particular person - not to make any statements, as far as possible, because that is the way to answer all the questions. otherwise we are running out of time and four or five members will not have their questions answered.
- question no 30 by bill newton dunn (h-0180/04):on: theft of personal datais the commission prepared to propose a directive which would require all organisations in the eu, both private and public, to inform individuals by email or letter that their personal data (such as name, social security number, driving licence number, bank or credit card numbers) may have fallen into the wrong hands? such a law was enacted in california in july 2003, and there are reports that a u.s. senator will introduce a federal bill based on the california law.
commission. the commission has taken note of the relevant californian law on the disclosure of breaches in security by businesses maintaining encrypted computerised data that contains personal information. on the basis of its current assessment, the commission does not, for the time being, intend to propose a directive along the lines set out in the above-mentioned californian law, since it has not been demonstrated that there is a need for european legislation on that issue to supplement member states' legislation, in particular penal law. however, the commission will follow closely the developments in this area as part of its policy to safeguard the free movement of personal data within the european union and the protection of individuals' fundamental rights.
commission. to expand on what i said a moment ago, i should like to add that the commission does not consider it appropriate for the time being to proceed with legislation similar to the californian law. there is no information suggesting that theft of unencrypted personal data stored in computer systems represents a serious problem for the proper functioning of the free flow of personal data in the internal market, or for the protection of such data. before introducing new legislation which puts additional burdens on business, it is suggested that business itself should enhance security of personal data by using security systems such as encryption. so, while understanding the philosophy behind the question the commission wants to be certain that it is absolutely necessary to pass this into legislation. we want to be careful with new laws; businesses complain of too much regulation. we all want to deregulate, so let us be careful in this area and only legislate where it is absolutely essential to do so, but not before.
commission. i would like to thank the honourable member for his suggestion. if he agrees i shall discuss it with my colleagues, but certainly there is merit in asking that agency to come up with an opinion on this matter.
- question no 31 by malcolm harbour (h-0188/04):on: gambelli judgmentin the recent gambelli judgment, the court of justice of the european communities upheld the right of eu gambling service providers to operate and offer services across the borders of the member states. in fact, a number of member states are simultaneously seeking to impose restrictions on private providers of gambling services, while heavily encouraging participation in gambling through state monopolies or grants. can the commission confirm that 'providing revenue to the public treasury' is not a sufficient justification for restricting the freedoms enshrined in articles 43 and 49 of the ec treaty? if the commission agrees, what initiatives will it take to remove unjustified restrictions on gambling service providers?
commission. on the second question, i agree with mr harbour and in fact i proposed legal action in a case that concerned denmark, so we see eye to eye on that matter. on the first question about gambling and the directive on services, this directive includes for gambling services an exemption to the country-of-origin principle that would no longer apply if a community harmonisation instrument were in place. the commission will assess whether it should present a proposal for harmonised eu-wide rules on gambling services on the basis of a report that it will put in hand this year. the directive also requires member states to screen, through a process of mutual evaluation, barriers to cross-border establishment of service providers to ensure that authorisation requirements or licensing conditions are transparent and based on objective criteria, but it does not call into question the existence of state monopolies as such in this field.
- question no 32 by reino paasilinna (h-0189/04):on media concentrationat the plenary session of 20 november 2002, the european parliament adopted a resolution on media concentration. it called on the commission to draw up a green paper by the end of 2003 to evaluate new technologies and new means of communication, with particular attention to the impact of mergers, concentrations and joint ventures on the internal market and media diversity, as well as to the legal situation in the present and new member states and future developments. parliament also called on the commission to complete its examination of possible legislative options for protecting freedom of expression and media diversity by the end of this parliamentary term and to submit a proposal to give the principle of media freedom a better legal basis in the treaty. why has the commission, despite parliament's request, done nothing to prevent the concentration of the media?
commission. the questions that have been raised by mr paasilinna cannot be the subject of an initiative of the commission based on the fundamental freedoms of the internal market, provided for in articles 43 and 49 of the treaty, because the purpose of those provisions is to regulate situations with a cross-border element. they cannot be used to adjust purely internal situations within member states. as mentioned, existing community instruments foreseen by the treaty have the aim of ensuring a certain equilibrium between economic operators. they may therefore directly affect the media, but as an economic activity. these instruments do not affect the media as an information conduit to citizens, or they do so only very indirectly. for example, the merger regulation assigns the task to the commission to establish whether or not media concentrations with a community dimension are compatible with the common market. the merger regulation thereby enables the commission to ensure competitive medium markets and only indirectly to protect media pluralism. it should furthermore be recalled that the commission supports the inclusion in the draft constitutional treaty of article 11(2) of the charter of fundamental rights, which establishes the principle of respect by the union of the freedom and pluralism of the media. however, as we all know, that is not yet law.
commission. mr paasilinna is unhappy. in return may i say that i am also unhappy. however, the commission cannot lift a finger if it does not conform with the treaty, if its action is not based on the treaty or if it is not supported by the treaty. the articles that i mentioned concern activities carried out under the economic aspects of the treaty and not purveyors of information to citizens. therefore while the plurality of the media is obviously an important subject, it is not covered by the current treaty. if mr paasilinna wants to call that an old-fashioned approach, so be it. however, i cannot step beyond the bounds of the treaty. perhaps the intergovernmental conference will result in a new treaty which offers more scope in this area than the present one.
thank you, mr. bolkestein, for your great cooperation with the legislature tonight. question to mr poul nielson
- question no 33 by miguel angel martínez martínez (h-0164/04):on: request for explanations on the commission's reply to questions on cubathe commission has given written replies to two oral questions concerning cuba, on the one hand on the havana biennale (h-0733/03 written reply of 17.12.2003) and on the other hand on the visit of the patriarch of the orthodox church to cuba (h-0045/04 written reply of 10.2.2004). the answers are unsatisfactory and contain allegations which i consider offensive. in the answer to the first question it is stated that 'the claim that the eu has removed the support for the biennale is not true', but i have never made this claim. i spoke of 'the aid provided', without specifying whether it was financial. more seriously, it has been stated that 'the claim that the eu has decided to restrict its cultural relations with cuba is untrue'. in reply to the second question on the visit of the patriarch of the orthodox church, the commission reiterates that there are no such sanctions by the european union, which would lead one to believe that it is cuba that is imposing sanctions. in addition, there is talk of insults by senior cuban government officials against european heads of state on 26 july. how does the commission describe the measures adopted by the council in the cultural field in relation to cuba in response to the events of the past year? which european heads of state were insulted on 26 july?
commission. the commission did not intend to be disrespectful in its replies to oral questions 733/03 and 45/04. indeed, the honourable member did not state that the eu had withdrawn funding for the biennial; he quoted media reports which the commission indicated were incorrect. as to the two new questions, firstly, the council decided on 5 june 2003 to reduce the profile of member states' participation in cultural events. this measure implies limiting the presence of member states' representatives in cultural events taking place in cuba and has to be seen as a symbolic gesture. it is not designed to reduce cultural activities in cuba, or limit their funding. member states with established cultural programmes continued their activities in cuba. only the spanish cultural centre ceased to function in august 2003. this, however, was not a decision of the spanish government but of the cuban authorities. secondly, it would have been more correct to speak about insults towards heads of governments rather than heads of states. the spanish prime minister was insulted in a speech by president castro on 26 july and prime ministers aznar and berlusconi were insulted in a demonstration on 12 june led by the president and first vice-president of cuba and directed at the embassies of those countries. insults were also addressed to them by president castro the previous day, according to press reports.
(es) first of all i would like to thank mr nielson, because for the first time we have had a reasonable reply acknowledging that indeed a number of measures have been taken in the field of cultural cooperation, a reply which is the first given to me after three other questions, to which i was answered that there were no such measures. so i appreciate you putting things in perspective. i still think that these restrictive measures on cultural relations are harmful, but, in the end, we are entering a different tone, which is the one we have had over the years. recognizing this, he announces that such measures exist. they look like nonsense to me. i would like to make one nuance: when you say that it would have been more correct to say that heads of government were insulted, it is not that it would have been more correct, it is that it was radically wrong to say that heads of state were insulted. and the commission has a responsibility not to confuse a head of state with a head of government. it is true that two heads of government were insulted. one of them has already been relieved of that responsibility by the sovereign people of my country and will therefore no longer be head of government when he is insulted. i am grateful to mr nielson for the good cooperation we have had over the past five years, including on the subject of relations with cuba.
- before the commissioner speaks, i should like to say that this is not a supplementary question to the previous one. it is an analysis of another subject which concerns cuba. in any case, mr korakas has put his question and i am sure you will allow me, as president, to interpret the rules of procedure. the commissioner will answer you.
commission. i do not intend to get involved in the issue of participation in the olympic games in greece. i wonder, however, what discipline mr castro would be participating in!
- i ask everyone to respect the agenda, because as you know, we are late and the interpreters are working overtime. we will ask questions and supplementary questions. i ask the whole house to act responsibly.
- question no 34 by patricia mckenna (h-0166/04):on: imf programmes and the community's general objectives for poverty eradicationin view of the community's interest in how imf programmes can conflict with the community's general objectives for poverty eradication, can the commission explain the community's policy of linking the disbursement of community budget support to compliance with the imf's programme for poverty reduction and growth opportunities (prgf)? will the ec continue to pay budget support if a country fails to comply with the conditions merely as regards trivial elements of an imf prgf, such as a condition to privatise a government body? will the ec continue to pay budget support if a country does not comply with the conditions of an imf prgf programme, where the ec considers the imf programme to be too restrictive and to prevent the country from maximising its poverty reduction payments?
commission. it is not possible to give a clear answer – it is a long story. there are cases in post-conflict situations where budget support is simply necessary – even if a country is not even discussing being on-track or off-track – simply because if we and other donors did not step in, everything would simply break down. that is one case. it is also a factor that the imf and the world bank have changed in recent years; not that we always agree on everything with them, but we are not discussing this in the context of the 1980s or early 1990s. the partnership we now have reflects a more poverty-oriented, more socially-responsible view compared to that held during those times.
- i would like to thank the honourable member and the commissioner with whom we are holding this institutional dialogue during this legislative question time. as the time allowed for question time has expired, questions nos 35 to 76 will be answered in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
(es) mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr bayona for the excellent work he has done in presenting this year's commission's management control. it is a report of enormous importance, in which it makes a number of suggestions which should be taken into account, and in which, unfortunately, the issue which has been of the greatest concern to us in the committee on budgetary control for the last few years - the fraud in eurostat - is still pending. that is why our group, the ppe group, with the support of the other groups, has pushed for a resolution on this subject so that it will be clear before the end of this parliamentary term, which for parliament is a serious matter, that we are not satisfied with what the commission has done so far, although we recognize that it has made a great effort, but we want to know why this fraud has occurred and what are the mechanisms to prevent it from happening again in the future. that is our best interest. we do not want to go into other kinds of questions. we want to prevent a repeat of the fraud. we, as a parliamentary committee, have a special interest in monitoring management and, above all, in the fight against fraud. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the excellent work of the presidency, mr diemut r. theato, in guiding a very difficult committee, such as the committee on budgetary control. he has managed to lead a very diverse team, from very different groups, which at the end of this parliamentary term has managed to find the right moment to feel like a team, a team in which we have much more in common than we have in disagreement and in which we are driven by a common interest, which is that the commission, the european union as a whole, should work ever better, that it should be spent efficiently, that there should be the best possible control of spending for the greatest benefit of the citizens. i would like to refer very briefly, if the president will allow me, to mr van hulten's report on parliament. i agree with my colleagues that it is a good report and that we have all managed to produce a text which i believe will get good support tomorrow.
the commission. i would just like to take the floor again briefly and repeat what mrs avilés perea said. it asked again how it could be guaranteed that a case like eurostat could not happen again. that is the essential question. the eurostat case in particular has shown the importance of the measures taken by the commission in the reform, such as the rotation of directors-general. as the court of auditors has said, there can no longer be cultural principalities, but there must be equal standards. the financial regulation has several regulations that rule out that such a thing can happen again. we also drew the conclusions from the question of how we can prevent the flow of information from failing when something happens, as was the case with eurostat. we have set very clear rules that commissioners must be informed of olaf reports, that they must be informed of audit reports drawn up by their directorate-general or by the internal audit service, so that it can no longer happen here that someone is not informed in a timely manner. the proposal to amend the olaf regulation also aims to make it clear that the commissioners responsible will receive the relevant information when olaf is investigating something or has a case. i can only say once again that we have indeed learned the lesson from the eurostat case. mr prodi has been here twice and has explained what measures we are taking. he made commitments to parliament, to the committee on budgetary control, and we have fulfilled those commitments. i would like to thank you again for the debate, for the excellent report and, in general, for the intensive critical but constructively critical cooperation with the committee on budgetary control over the last few years. thank you very much.
commission. i hope you will excuse me if i speak for slightly longer than the two minutes, thirty seconds i am allocated, but the issues we are addressing this evening are extremely important and i would like to give them the attention they deserve. i want to say at the outset that i am very grateful for this opportunity of addressing you tonight on the subject of passenger name records. my friend and colleague, mr bolkestein, spoke to you yesterday about the case for a so-called adequacy finding on this issue. i want to underline once again the fact that the commission will carefully consider the points of view expressed by members in the debate in march, when my colleague also spoke, before making its final decision. another issue the house knows we will have to consider is the question of the onward transfer of passenger name records data by us customs. as commissioner bolkestein made clear yesterday in the plenary, these transfers are a matter of concern to us. commissioner bolkestein and i have been in contact with secretary ridge of the homeland security department on the kind of assurances that we want on the circumstances in which such transfers would take place. i spoke to secretary ridge myself yesterday evening. we look forward to studying his comments, and i can assure the house that his response to our questions will form an important part of our ultimate college decision on an adequacy finding. it is my task this evening to present the case for the other part of the package, namely the international agreement we have negotiated with the united states. it would provide a sound legal basis for allowing airlines to transfer passenger data to the united states. let me start by setting out briefly the background to this issue. none of us will ever forget the horrific attacks on the twin towers on 11 september 2001. the united states was profoundly shocked by them. in fact we were all shocked by those attacks. in europe we have suffered from terrorist attacks for decades – most recently the appalling bombing of passenger trains in spain last month. we stand, i hope, shoulder to shoulder with america in the fight against terrorism and i repeat that in my judgment if we had suffered anything like the attacks on the twin towers, we perhaps might have an even greater appreciation of how great us concern is over air transport. since those attacks the us authorities have taken a whole range of measures to provide their citizens with greater security. the requirement for the transfer of pnr data is one of these. we immediately saw a conflict between the requirements of the us legislation and our own data protection legislation. european airlines were faced with a dreadful dilemma: either to comply with the pnr requirement and risk being taken to court by their national data protection authorities, or not to comply, which would have triggered intrusive extra searches of their passengers. this would have resulted in enormous delays and a potentially serious loss of business for eu airlines to us airlines, which were supplying the required data. the european commission had a responsibility to do what it could to help our airlines and their passengers out of this situation. in the short term we made an arrangement with the us which provided for assurances on how the data would be used. this gave some comfort to the airlines, but we recognised that it did not provide a sound legal footing on which to proceed. that is why we have spent the last 15 months negotiating with the united states. as far as possible, we wanted to uphold the concerns of our citizens for their privacy to be protected. the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs understandably had a long list of objectives that it wanted us to secure. in the real world though, we were never going to be able to secure everything they would have wished. all negotiation involves compromises and, on this occasion, we had to face the fact that the us was already obtaining the data it wanted. as outlined in the commission communication of december 2003, the bilateral international agreement with the us that we are debating today is a necessary element in the framework that the commission is seeking to put in place both for legal and for political reasons. firstly, there is a legal reason related to the data protection directive. determining that there is adequate protection for personal data at the recipient's end is part of what a data controller needs to do before transferring data to a third country. in addition, the controller – in this case the airline – needs a legitimate reason for transferring the data, such as being required to do so by law. however, by law we mean community law or member state law. an obligation imposed by a third country cannot automatically justify processing of data within the community. this international agreement, which will become part of the community legal framework, creates such a requirement, but subject to one very important condition: the existence of adequate data protection in the recipient country, namely the united states. it is important to underline here that this agreement does not take for granted the existence of such adequate protection in the united states. the obligation on airlines is applicable only if an adequacy finding has been made, and for as long as it remains in force. on 31 march the european parliament adopted a resolution in which it disagrees with the commission that the current us undertakings represent adequate protection, and the college will decide in due course how to proceed. however, whatever the commission decides, this part of the agreement will only be applicable if there is an adequacy finding. therefore, there is no reason for parliament to reject the entire agreement on this basis. secondly, there is a legal reason for this international agreement, linked to international law. the european commission took the position of principle that us law enforcement authorities could only get access to databases situated in the community if they had been explicitly allowed to do so. through this agreement the community grants this permission, subject to a double condition. first, that there is adequate data protection in the us. second, that a 'push' system is not yet in place. i would make it clear that the commission shares parliament's view that 'push' should replace the current 'pull' as soon as possible and the date requested by parliament – namely 1 july – has been duly noted. we are doing our best to put in place the conditions that will make 'push' possible very soon. however, since the aim is to provide legal certainty today, we need to address this issue now and then work to change it as soon as possible. from a more political point of view, this agreement fulfils four additional important objectives. first, it ensures the future assistance of the us government on the basis of reciprocity in ensuring that airlines transfer pnr data to community authorities if the community or any of its member states were to introduce such a system. second, it also contains a statement that the us bureau of customs and border protection is implementing the undertakings that the adequacy finding is based upon, which is, as the house recognises, an important international commitment on the part of the united states. third, the agreement also enshrines the commitment to undertake joint reviews on matters relating to the agreement. last, but not least, the agreement protects travellers against unlawful discrimination on the basis of nationality and country of residence. before concluding, allow me to refer briefly to the report that has been submitted, which highlights two legal problems. the first is procedural. the rapporteur considers that parliament should have been asked to give its full assent rather than just being consulted. my reply would be, as commissioner bolkestein explained yesterday, that nothing in this agreement entails amendment to the data protection directive, which is the condition established by article 300 of the treaty for the assent procedure to apply. there is a second concern highlighted in the report, which stipulates that: 'the real scope of the international agreement will evolve at the discretion of the us administration without any legally binding participation from the european union side'. let me be clear that the essential link between the three elements of the package – international agreement, adequacy finding and us undertakings – is there to ensure coherence between them. no adequacy finding without undertakings; no legal effect on airlines as regards the agreement without an adequacy finding. so any unilateral change to the us undertakings that would lead to non-compliance with the principles of adequacy would also lead to a suspension of the adequacy finding. simultaneously, it would also lead to the non-application of the two key clauses of the international agreement, the obligation on airlines to provide the data and the authorisation to the us to pull without any need to modify or revoke the international agreement. this crucial safety valve is built into the agreement to prevent precisely what the report fears, i.e. the european union side being forced to accept any unilateral change to the us requirements for receiving passenger name records. to conclude, i would like to urge members to support the adoption of this agreement, despite their misgivings about the adequacy finding. for the reasons i have explained, this would not necessarily be incompatible with the position parliament has taken on the adequacy finding. the resolution adopted by the european parliament on 31 march calls for a wider international agreement incorporating a series of data protection principles. i believe that such an agreement is beyond what is achievable today. that is why i would ask parliament to back this agreement, not because it is perfect but because it is a great deal better for our airlines to operate under legal certainty and it is a great deal better for passengers to have much improved safeguards than the legal void that would result from a collapse of a package which we have worked so long and hard to negotiate. i apologise for speaking at such length, but i know this is an issue of considerable importance to parliament and i wanted to try to deal with the main issues that have been raised.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again addressing the question of the transfer of pnr data to the united states, but this time in the final stages, since we now have on the table the draft international agreement which this house has so often requested. i do not think that we can bring anything new to the table, because our positions throughout these debates are sufficiently clear. in the committee i chair we have had the opportunity to hear from the experts. mr bolkestein, the commissioners involved and even the entities directly concerned, such as the airlines, have appeared on several occasions. this is our last political pronouncement in this legislature on the subject. like my group, i believe that it would be irresponsible for us to leave unresolved a situation of flagrant illegality and legal uncertainty which occurs whenever travel to the united states involves airlines passing on their passengers' data to the us authorities, without any guarantees or legal basis to protect the processing and use of such data. that's been going on for a year now. it is precisely this legal framework, with all its shortcomings and all the criticisms we have made of it here, that we are debating today. on the other hand, no one can deny today that the fight against terrorism is an absolute priority and that at a time when european society is living in fear of those who threaten its security and stability, the lack of cooperation between those countries which have stood up to terrorism cannot be understood. the european union and the united states share this common objective and their cooperation is fundamental, and absolutely urgent and necessary. ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that this is a blank check to the united states, as some would have us believe. it's the solution to a real problem that's been affecting us since we started broadcasting over a year ago. let me also take this opportunity, mr president, to say that i hope that the new socialist government of spain - with mr zapatero at its head - will defend this agreement in the council, because i am convinced that spanish citizens would rather give their personal data to those who need it for these purposes or be able to obtain it for security reasons, as the united states does, before those responsible for the massacre of 11 march can provoke another brutal attack, either in my country or anywhere in the world. i therefore announce, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, that we shall vote against mrs boogerd-quaak's report.
(es) mr president, terrorism is indeed a matter which requires international cooperation, we know that, and as i come from a country which has suffered from terrorism for a long time, i also know that cooperation in the fight against terrorism and any action taken must be done in full respect of the system of society which the terrorists want to abolish. that's what we're trying to defend, not the work of terrorists. it's absurd, raising this as suspicion. that's not the problem. the problem, mr president, is that parliament has found itself in a rather intolerable situation with regard to the decisions taken by the commission in this area. first they announced a kind of agreement on which we could not express an opinion, then they told us that there would be an international agreement and it turns out that this international agreement is concluded without mandatory consultation of parliament. it is not surprising that we are asking for the same prerogatives for this house as the united states congress has in this matter. we have decided in the house and in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to consult the court of justice on the international agreement because we have doubts about the form and content of what the commission has done. i do not believe, as mr hernández mollar does, that a spanish citizen would prefer to be in a defenseless position when he is not allowed to enter the united states because he is suspected of something unfounded, such as terrorism. in that case, you will have no recourse in a situation so serious that it may threaten, for example, your job. i don't think without this system he's gonna be any more unprotected. i don't think this is it. what we are asking the commission to do is to enforce the rules. finally, mr president, allow me to ask a question. mr patten said in passing that the united states was already getting the information it wanted. can you tell me by whom and what the commission has done, if it knew, to prevent this?
(es) mr president, if i may, i would like to say a few words on this subject, although i do not belong to the italian left, because, like many members of other nationalities and from other groups, such as mrs boogerd-quaak, i have been concerned about this matter. the charter of fundamental rights states that plurality is an indispensable element for the functioning of democracy. what this house has gathered is an undeniable growing unease among broad sections of information professionals and among broad sections of citizens in relation to the information they receive through the media. the concentration of private media in a few hands and the misuse of public media by the powers that be, by governments, are the two central concerns in this field. and what to say, when both concerns are united, or when a political position and a media business interest coincide. community legislation, mr president, should take account of this need for plurality and should have instruments to defend it actively. this is what this house proposes in the report by mrs boogerd-quaak, to whom i thank for her efforts and patience. mr president, i think that the commission and the member states should study these proposals and make them their own or at least tell us what they think of them. i think this would be well received by this house and by the citizens. it seems to me, mr president, that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, up to the day it voted this report in committee, voted and worked as it has for the last five years, that is, in a reasonable and sensible way, listening - which seems to be uncommon in this house today - listening to each other's reasons. this will be my last speech in this house, because i will not be returning to the next plenary session of my own accord and i would like to thank the chairman of the committee, mr jorge hernández mollar, for the way he has conducted the committee up to now and also on this very difficult matter. i do not want to end, returning to the point at hand, without saying - and this is the crux of the matter - that citizens, mr president, - and they have shown this in the last few days in my country, spain - when they believe that information is subjected to intolerable manipulation, they react. so i am optimistic on this issue. i hope that the institutions will live up to the expectations of the citizens.
(es) mr president, i think that the debate we are having is not a purely italian debate. i am valencian and, historically, valencians have a lot of links with italians - in fact, two popes (calixtus iii and roderic de borja) were popes in italy during the renaissance - but i think this is a fundamental european issue and i am grateful for the speeches by commissioner patten and the rapporteur, mrs boogerd-quaak. i believe that, through subsidiarity and also at the initiative of the commission, the articulation of pluralism, the media and, above all, neutrality should be regulated and acted upon. i come from a european region the valencian country where neutrality has not been seen in a public media. i am not talking about televisión española, which is a flagrant case, but about canal nou, valencian television, which is a textbook example of how a public television is used in a partisan way. neutrality does not imply that it is partisan, or that it is used by the government, manipulated by the media or used by a political party in the case of a public media, as has been the case with valencian television. that is why i believe that, through the commission's initiatives, initiatives should be taken to regulate, to have advisory councils. in this sense, we envy public television models such as the bbc and we would like, as valencians, that both televisión española and canal nou, our valencian television, be neutral and, in the future, we could have a neutral television that would accommodate all parties. a party like mine, which is the third largest municipal political force in our country, has no presence on our television and i believe that this is a fundamental issue for european construction.
commission. mr president, i am only sorry that the house is melting away as we come to these important issues, but perhaps for the next few moments i will not find myself trapped between these passions as i have been recently! let me come to calmer matters. in february 2003, in response to the conclusions of the december 2002 justice and home affairs council, the commission presented a package of practical measures which seek to alleviate legal inconsistencies and practical difficulties in relation to the stamping of third country nationals' travel documents at the external borders of the member states. in november 2003 the commission presented a proposal for a regulation which seeks first to impose an obligation on the member states to stamp such travel documents systematically; secondly, to lay down the conditions in which the absence of an entry stamp may constitute prima facie evidence that the individual has overstayed in the member state's territory; and thirdly to ensure that the checks on individuals at external borders are only relaxed in exceptional and unforeseen circumstances. the obligation on the member states' authorities to stamp the travel documents of third country nationals systematically will make it possible to use the lack of an entry stamp as prima facie evidence of an illegal stay. this presumption of illegality may be challenged by any other evidence that the third country national may be able to produce. to allow member states time to put in place the necessary practical arrangements for implementation, the regulation will not come into effect until 1 may this year. on this date many of the practical implementation challenges will, in our judgment, cease to exist because enlargement will mean that the travel documents of citizens of the new member states will no longer need to be stamped. i hope that those honourable members who have delayed bedtime to listen to these remarks will find them helpful and i look forward to listening to the debate.
(es) mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the commission on its proposal and the rapporteur on the work she has done, both technically and in collaboration with other colleagues, which has enabled us to incorporate some of our proposals into her report. the enlargement of the european union is undoubtedly a new step in the management of the external borders. the european union is an ambitious and open integration project which has already gone beyond mere economic aims as it has broadened its objectives and, as member states have given it more and more powers, has also increased its challenges. since 1995, when the schengen convention was adopted, there has been a growing desire to abolish borders and barriers between the states which have signed it. the free movement of persons, immigration and asylum, and the management of external borders are top priority policies, and this has certainly been noted in the conclusions of some councils such as seville, tampere and thessaloniki. one of the objectives of community policy is to control immigration in order to promote, on the one hand, their integration and also, on the other hand, safe return to the countries of origin where illegal immigration is concerned. in this sense, the control of the external borders of the countries subscribing to the schengen convention is vital to achieve these objectives. if this regulation succeeds in unifying a system of automatic sealing for travel documents of third country nationals, it will bring coherence and simplicity to the procedures relating to the management of the external borders. one of the european union's successes has undoubtedly been to remove barriers to citizens' free movement in all the countries that make up the union without making any distinction. if we want to improve security and make the european union a safer area, we must also improve the functioning of our external borders and, in particular, the schengen borders. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the report. so we shall have a separate vote on that point and we shall vote against. i consider this regulation to be a step forward in controlling illegal immigration and thus in moving towards a common immigration policy.
(es) mr president, i have just received a communication from the bureau telling members, and it seems to have been announced at midnight yesterday, that in relation to the boogerd-quaak report on freedom of expression and information, in view of the large number of separate and separate requests for roll-call votes, the vote cannot be taken today. you will recall, mr president, that you and i spoke by telephone yesterday at 10.30 p.m. and that i expressed my concern about all the incidents surrounding this case and i really must say at this moment that this decision, which i do not know who has taken it - it would be good to know and if you support it - is a decision which breaks with all the practices followed in this house; my group, i do not know the others, has not been consulted and i inform you that i ask that, at the beginning of the voting at 12 o'clock, a vote be taken on the reintroduction of this item in the voting. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, paragraph 51 of this parliament's recent resolution on the outcome of the european council states that 'without strong pressure on both sides, the roadmap will remain ineffective'. of course, in my opinion, the roadmap remains ineffective and i wonder where the pressure is on israel. the house also called on the us government to take responsibility for the current crisis. in my view, the israeli government has not only failed to take responsibility for its actions, but has also surrendered to the israeli government. mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. proof of this is that the minister without portfolio in the israeli government, guidon ezra, declared on friday that powell's comments, intended to soften bush's pro-israeli tone, do not reflect bush's own opinion. the resolution also calls on both sides to make "serious efforts to resume genuine negotiations". in my view, the palestinian authority has been waiting for months for the resumption of these negotiations, but it is clear that israel does not want to negotiate with the palestinian authority and is now preparing, with the full support of bush, for a unilateral withdrawal from gaza outside the framework of the road map. it is already clear enough, in my view, that this is not a gaza first followed by a west bank second, but a gaza only. after all these events, two other paragraphs of our resolution should be recalled, paragraph 48, which was incorporated after the assassination of sheikh yassin: 'calls on the council and the commission to examine the possibility of fully applying article 2 of the association agreement with israel in the event of the continuation of the policy of extrajudicial executions'. well, the extrajudicial executions continue, the last one with rantisi. i think we must therefore reiterate to the council and the commission the request made by this parliament. finally, in paragraph 49, parliament 'calls on the council to invite the member states of the union which are members of the security council to submit immediately a proposal for the establishment of an international peacekeeping force on the 1967 borders, with the mandate to protect both the israeli and palestinian peoples from terrorist attacks and from military incursions and interventions'. we must also reiterate this demand.
(es) mr president, i should like to begin by saying that you have the support and thanks of the socialist group for the statement you have just made. (applause) having said that, i would like to refer to the point of order which i raised this morning at 9 a.m. at the beginning of the sitting, together with other group chairmen, concerning the reinstatement of the boogerd-quaak report on freedom of expression and information in today's voting. i raised the matter this morning and i leave it to the presidency to decide when to raise the substance of the matter.
(es) mr president, i do not think it is reasonable what has just happened; i do not think it is reasonable that we should be given the opportunity to express before all the members of this house the contrary view of commissioner patten on the matter of going to the court of justice when we have been discussing this for months here. we did not have the opportunity to speak to more people than he did yesterday either, but we did have the opportunity to speak in the background work that has been done in the committee on civil liberties and in the committee on legal affairs. there is a favourable opinion from the previous plenary session to refer the matter to the court of justice; there is a favourable opinion from the committee on legal affairs; we should have already referred the matter to the court of justice. please, stop this. it's not presentable. and finally, let us vote, because then we shall have exhausted all the possibilities of changing what has been the majority position of this house until now. we accept, but do it now, please. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, first of all i have to say that i was the one who proposed the content of that report, which had the majority support in the conference of presidents, and it is about freedom of expression and information in the european union - particularly in italy, but in the european union - and in mrs boogerd-quaak's excellent report most of the countries of the european union are included, including my own, and that is why i think it is a good job and one that honors parliament. i would therefore like to start by making a political criticism, because i think it is very positive that we are having a thorough political debate at this last plenary session of this parliament, and that is the case of the filibuster that has been followed up in connection with this report. you have spoken of a number of issues that have arisen in the handling of the report. i can add some more information: for example, documents have disappeared from the committee, which is absolutely inexplicable. and we're in for an obstacle course. and since you yourself mentioned a letter addressed to you by my esteemed colleague, mr podestà, i have been informed of an article published by vice-president podestà today in the well-known italian newspaper corriere della sera, in which he makes a number of serious accusations against the behaviour of the european parliament. it says - and i quote in italian -: the rules of procedure of the european parliament have been circumvented, allowing an unstoppable course to be given to the debate in the chamber, and it goes on to say that 'in the committee on public freedom, the majority of the ministers ...' i did not know that we had this power in parliament, and i do not know whether mr poettering would agree with that. finally, he then refers to the letter he has written to you and says that president cox, in his reply, 'has had to admit that he had substantially diverse reasons'. and i want to say clearly that i believe that, on the part of the so-called centre-left coalition, we have strictly respected the rules of procedure, we have had a patience worthy of the holy job in the face of systematic manoeuvres of blockade and filibusterism. but if the question is put in political terms, i accept that there are two groups in this house - and i conclude, mr president - that are filibustering, because they are the ones who have tabled all but four amendments, and i understand that they are defending mr berlusconi, who is the leader of the epp at the moment. i admit it too. but let them say it clearly, because... (protests and applause)... because i remind you of an old principle of roman law that said - and that is what made rome great - that you cannot legislate only to benefit a person. we must legislate for all citizens, and that is what is at stake here. and so, mr president, i conclude... (protests and applause)... i conclude by making a proposal, mr president: the so-called centre-left coalition has four amendments. you have 350. we accept that they should be voted on as a group and, if not, we accept the president's proposal that they should be voted on paragraph by paragraph. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. {es) mr president, i wish to speak on behalf of the committee i chair. here, the baron has made a statement, an accusation that seems particularly serious to me. you said that documents have disappeared in my committee. i would like to tell the president that if this accusation is false, it is extremely serious because it seriously damages the prestige and honour of the committee i chair. (applause) and secondly, mr president, i would like to know how this information has reached mr barón, because the president is not aware at this stage that this has happened, and that would in turn seriously discredit the services of my own committee. i think that this, mr president, needs immediate clarification and i ask the presidency to support me in any event. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. i'm really missing you. i have asked for an explanation of a number of allegations which have been made in this house and i have not been given any answer. i ask that you answer what i have asked.
(es) given that i am not the only one who has made accusations, but that vice-president podestà has made a series of written accusations in the italian press... (protests)... i accept the challenge put forward by mr hernández mollar with pleasure, but i formally ask that a package be made of what i have said and what vice-president podestà has said in writing... (protests) mr president, i would ask the wild boars that are running loose to be calm. (applause) i am prepared to explain to the bureau all these matters, the accusations of vice-president podestà and my own.
president of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. (es) mr president, i am not talking about a challenge here, nor am i talking about packages, i am talking about a serious accusation made by mr barón, which discredits this house. and in any case, mr president, if that is true - and i ask you to open an investigation immediately - the votes that have been taken in committee are null and void and therefore the vote on this report cannot take place tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. {\es} mr president, i think there is no reason or reason not to vote on the report and the motion for a resolution. what was voted this morning is perfectly compatible with the content of the resolution itself, which calls for the suspension of the agreement. so we have to make a statement on that. i think that both the proposal and the resolution should be put to the vote and i ask that they be put to the vote.
president of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. {es) mr president, i repeat what i said before: there is no incompatibility in that, on the one hand, we have voted what we have voted in relation to the previous opinion of the court of justice and, on the other hand, we have to pronounce on the legislative proposal and on the resolution. i repeat: it is in the resolution itself that it is requested that the agreement be suspended. we therefore have a legitimate right to be in this house and we would be robbed of the political groups if we were prevented from voting on the motion and the resolution. i therefore insist, mr president, that this report should not be referred back to committee, but voted on as planned, because of the arguments i have just put forward, which i think are very strong.
(es) mr president, we have asked the competent services for a linguistic correction because amendment no 2 was tabled in english, and there are other versions where the word 'considerable' appears, which is not in the english version, which is authentic. i ask that that correction be made.
(es) mr president, the united states, with only 3% of the world's population, is capable of producing about 30% of goods and services. china, with a population six times larger and a much larger area, produces only 3%. russia today is ranked, in terms of gross domestic product, below switzerland. i would like to say that it is clear that we are witnessing an unprecedented political and military hegemony of the united states. but it's also fair to say that it's on its own merits. i think we must conclude that if europe is to develop its full potential we must do so in loyal cooperation with the united states. this loyal cooperation does not mean that europe has to write a blank cheque; europe has its own positions on the death penalty, the international criminal court, the kyoto protocol, laws with extraterritorial effect or trade policy. we must also take into account that relations between the european union and the united states are based on common values, on a shared history, and i think it is important not to forget that the transatlantic bond is in the genetic code of the european union and in a common passion for freedom. i think it is also important to remember that there is an extraordinary interdependence in the economic and commercial spheres. four fifths of new investment in europe today comes from the united states, and it should not be forgotten that the 15 current member states of the union invest in the home state of president bush, texas, more than japan invests in the 50 states of the union. i would therefore like to agree with a happy phrase of commissioner patten, which i often use in my speeches, namely that everything we want to achieve as europeans we can achieve much more easily if we cooperate with the united states and i am sure that the united states can achieve what it wants to achieve if it cooperates with us.
council. mr president, once again i thank the members for their contributions. to sum up, this debate underlines the value of our focus on enhancing the dialogue between parliament and council in the area of human rights. it also illustrates once again just how broad this canvas is, and just how extraordinarily diverse the focal points have to be in terms of human rights and human rights defenders. the contributions covered a remarkably wide range of topics and this is obviously an area where members have not only a particular interest, but also very considerable expertise. i hope that those people who criticise this parliament will read today's proceedings and just for once come to the conclusion that this is a house worthy of their support. i know the presidency and the council will benefit greatly from exchanges that we have had here. the work of the commission on human rights is continuing in geneva as we speak. i mentioned earlier some of the resolutions that we have adopted in relation to the human rights situations in belarus, turkmenistan, north korea and the israeli settlements in the occupied arab territories. work on other resolutions goes on but we can be proud of the role the european union is playing via the commission and of the work of the commission to date. i have some good news for the house, which i will keep for the end. members are obviously very concerned at the human rights aspects of the progress of the war on terror. ms de keyser’s report reflects these concerns and i want to assure the house that they have been noted by the council. i also want to thank mr crowley, who recently said at an interparliamentary meeting with us congress that, in our actions against terrorists, we must be bound by the rules that terrorists flout. that was a very valuable point made by a member of this house and is a view shared by the council – i.e. that respect for human rights must underpin our whole approach in the war on terror and it must underpin the whole approach of our allies in the war on terror. human rights are not divisible. human rights cannot be set aside for the convenience of the moment. i believe it was president chirac who said that it is in this way we uncover and analyse the roots of terror in order to sever them. we must be conscious of all the issues touched on in this report. i was very touched by lord stockton's farewell speech. i wish him well. indeed, yesterday and today a number of speakers touched on the point that this was their valedictory part-session. i wish them all well. it is always a sad moment in the life of a politician when you see a parliamentarian moving on. mr deva made a very interesting observation highlighting the serious problems that exist in the intergovernmental nature of the un human rights commission. those of us who are un defenders - which means most members of this house and certainly myself - may rightly praise the un for the role it plays, but should also ponder the point that he made. mr dell'alba raised the issue of the montagnards, the mountain people of vietnam. i want to assure him and the house that the situation of these people is an active concern of the council and will remain part of the union's dialogue with the government of vietnam. the representatives of the union in hanoi have received guidance in this connection. i want to finish on a positive note. i received some good news as i was making my contribution earlier, and am very pleased to be able to share this good news with the house. earlier today, the commission on human rights adopted the european union's resolution on the death penalty by 28 votes to 20, with 5 abstentions. (applause) i would point out to the house that this is the best ever margin of victory in the history of this eu initiative. that margin of victory is an indication of the effectiveness of the union's policy of opposition to the death penalty in all circumstances. it is also a sign of the growing trend towards the international abolition of the death penalty. it also underlines the point i made earlier that if the union sometimes has to come from the back of the field on issues of concern to it, then we should perhaps learn to box a little more clever and to be a little more strategic. however, this is good news and i am pleased to share it with the house. (applause)
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0279/2004) by mr fernández martín, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 975/1999 laying down the requirements for the implementation of development cooperation operations which contribute to the general objectives of developing and consolidating democracy and the rule of law and respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms (com (2003) 639 - c5-0507/2003 - 2003/0250 (cod)).
commission. mr president, i am extremely pleased to have this opportunity to tell parliament why the rather technical commission proposal to which you will be giving a first reading today is so important. the regulation which you are being asked to extend by two years, until the end of the present financial perspective in 2006, is one of the two legal bases for the european initiative for democracy and human rights. as you are well aware, the initiative is an extremely important element of the european union’s overall policy on promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries. in 1999, the european parliament itself was fully involved in drawing up the regulations underlying the european initiative for democracy and human rights, moulding the objectives of the initiative and setting its priorities, as well as shaping the administrative procedures for its implementation. i am very pleased to see now that the honourable member's report fully supports the commission in securing an extension of the initiative beyond the end of this year, subject to some amendments. in the run-up to today’s plenary and decision-making, the commission proposal has triggered fruitful exchanges between a number of members of this house and commissioner patten and/or commission services. these exchanges have focused essentially on two important issues: firstly, how to more effectively involve the european parliament in political priority setting for implementation of the initiative and, secondly, how to further improve the performance and practical relevance of the initiative with a view to democracy building and strengthening human rights in the world. we have welcomed these exchanges, as we welcome today’s debate. the commission, like parliament, has every interest in supporting proposals designed to make the initiative ever more effective and relevant. as was stated at the february part-session, we have an open mind on the ideas that members of parliament put forward. however, this does not allow us to disregard certain constraints imposed by respective institutional prerogatives, nor must we lose sight of the key objective of the commission proposal before you today, which is to secure the continued operational availability of the initiative for the next two years. the commission has listened carefully to the views expressed by honourable members and is ready to examine in a constructive spirit all ideas that have been put to it in order to ensure that what we do, under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, is better focused and more effective. more specifically, i would like to state that the commission is committed to setting up a structured and regular dialogue on the initiative with the competent committees of the european parliament, led by the responsible commissioner and supported by his or her own services. this will enable us to exchange views in good time on planned multiannual programming documents, annual programming updates and work programmes, or amendments to them. it would, i hope, give parliament ample opportunity to provide comments and input into the commission’s thinking. it would also, crucially, be compatible with comitology rules and institutional prerogatives. moreover, the commission will examine with an open mind the suggestion, contained in the report's explanatory statement, to create specific mechanisms to allow greater involvement of civil society and ngos with a view to the promotion of democracy and human rights. in this respect, i would simply remind you, however, that this suggestion has to be seen in the context of the commission’s recent proposal on the future financial perspective, which envisages a simplified architecture for the community’s external assistance and which therefore will also have significant implications for the future operation of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. in conclusion, let me reiterate the commission’s appreciation of the constructive spirit shown by this house and its support for continued effective operation of the initiative beyond the end of this year. your positive vote on mr fernandez martin’s report at first reading today should pave the way for an agreement with the council, thus dispensing with a second reading and allowing the timely extension of the initiative’s legal basis. given the political importance we all attach to the european initiative for democracy and human rights, this is a welcome outcome in everyone’s interest.
the rapporteur. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to community development cooperation projects is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission's proposal is a good one. it is a modest instrument, to be sure, considering the size of its financial record, but it is very important in terms of its content and objectives, which are highly appreciated by everyone, and especially by the european parliament. i remember that one of the budget lines financing these programmes was created in 1994 on our initiative. as commissioner nielson has just announced, this is a proposal for a regulation amendment which, in the commission's view, as we have been informed by its services, concerns purely technical aspects - he has not made this specific mention - and is closer to what in parliament's view has always had an undoubted political content, if only because it is intended to extend for two years the validity and operation of an instrument which, according to all the reports and opinions received and mentioned by the council in its communication, is extremely interesting. however, parliament considers that the involvement of our institution in the various stages of the procedure, as proposed in the council's draft, does not meet our expectations, especially on a subject which is a matter of codecision. from the beginning, more than half a year ago, we have spent a lot of time discussing formal and procedural matters, but fortunately, as commissioner nielson has said, i think i can say today that we will arrive perhaps at the last minute, but within the deadline, so that this community initiative will not be interrupted and paralysed for some time by the changes that parliament and the commission will experience over the coming months. before i make some technical comments on our proposal, i should like to point out, mr president, that there is a technical corrigendum which the services of the house should be aware of at this moment, and which changes the order of the amendments which we are proposing and which we shall be voting on tomorrow. in the report i have proposed, which is supported by the committee on development and cooperation and agreed by the council, we propose an amendment to article 4 (1) by introducing into the legislative body that 'in cases of eu election observation missions and amicus curiae proceedings, natural persons may obtain financial support under this regulation'. the experience of all those who have participated in electoral observation missions tells us that, despite all the limitations that may be mentioned, the presence of international observers in electoral processes increases confidence in transparency and in the strict observance of democratic principles in developing countries. parliament does not want to give up its participation in the programming phase, in setting priorities and in implementing initiatives. we have included this request from parliament in the explanatory statement, if, as a result of the current legislative framework, as the commissioner, mr nielson, has mentioned, this is not possible at the moment. we hope that the commitment made by mr nielson on behalf of the commission will be confirmed in the future. in my view, amendment no 3, which is in the opinion report of the committee on budgets, should be withdrawn by the rapporteur. otherwise, i recommend voting against this amendment. this agreement is the best possible one, if we are to pass this report at first reading, as the council, the commission and parliament wish, in order to meet a widely shared demand. it is also particularly necessary for the strengthening of civil society in developing countries. but this does not mean, nor should it be understood, that parliament is satisfied. it is a codecision procedure, a matter which affects human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to which the house has been very sensitive for many years. parliament believes that when it comes to establishing a new programme and not just an extension for the next two years, as is the case we are discussing today, we will demand a greater presence and a more active participation within the framework of the rules governing the institutional dialogue of the union, on which those who succeed us here in the next legislature will have to establish a new framework which provides a legal basis for this parliament's wish to be fulfilled.
- we are deeply grateful to mrs. theorin for her extraordinary efforts over these years.
commission. mr president, mr mcmillan-scott put a very clear and direct - but strange - question to me. he asked whether i am happy that millions of people are living in countries without democracy or adequate human rights. such a clear question deserves a clear answer. i hope the honourable member will not be shocked by its bluntness, but the answer is 'no, i am not happy with that'. the commission supports the rapporteur's proposal to withdraw amendment 3 from the committee on budgetary control on the applicable comitology procedure. the intention contained in this amendment, to provide for an advisory committee instead of today's regulatory committee, is unacceptable to the council. this is well-known. thus, maintaining the amendment would scupper our joint efforts and the objective of facilitating a first reading agreement under the codecision procedure. the commission proposed that a management committee is the appropriate form of committee and constitutes a fair compromise. it is extremely important that we are now able to secure a continuation of this work. i agree with mrs napoletano that our actions are not always effective. one reason is that we are not effective ourselves. another is that in an area such as this it is very difficult to produce effective so-called solutions. however, we have to try. we do not do this because we know it works but because it is necessary. that is the nature of this kind of activity. this initiative has been important in practice and for sending a signal showing how we think in europe about what we want to do in the world. i thank parliament for the constructive spirit in which it has been handled.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0148/2004) by mr rocard, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision 1419/1999/ec on a community action concerning the european capital of culture 2005-2019 (com (2003) 700 - c5-0548/2003 - 2003/0274 (cod)).
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin i should like to say that i have been a member of parliament for only 19 days and that this is my first speech before this illustrious house and perhaps my last, but that it is not a presumption for me to speak about culture here today, because for the last eight years i have been president of euronews, a european channel which has monitored and broadcast the activities of parliament, the commission and the council, but which has also devoted a great deal of time to monitoring and broadcasting european cultural activities, both official and unofficial. and as someone who comes from outside and who may perhaps have an opinion with less political implications, i want to tell you that culture is very broad, it has many facets and that two european capitals are not too much. we can see how in sports there are winter and summer olympics, within the same year, and that they don't hurt each other. culture is perhaps even more extensive, and the new countries joining the union cannot be denied the opportunity of organising and having a european capital of culture among their cities. my group and i therefore personally support the commission's position to designate two cities as european capitals of culture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that, in a way, is already foreseen, with two cities from two different countries within the same year. but we should also ensure that there is a certain degree of competition within the candidates from the same country. we hope that the commission can resolve this issue.
- thank you very much, mr. vila. i would say to you that you give the impression of having been a member of parliament for many years, the way you manage the situation. we congratulate you on this first speech and we hope it will not be your last.
commission - mr president, allow me first of all, since i shall not have the opportunity to do so again in this chamber, to thank the chairman of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, my partner and friend michel rocard. we've done a good job in the last few years. i regret that it has to end in a disagreement. however, our disagreement is not about substance, because we basically have the same idea: to ensure that the european capitals of culture continue to be true springboards for european cultures and for diversity. unfortunately, the fact that the treaties provide for unanimity in cultural matters does not allow us to go any further, which would be absolutely necessary. that is why - while also hoping that we will soon have a new treaty providing for majority voting in cultural decisions, which would help us enormously to make progress in many areas - it would be appropriate to propose as soon as possible a fundamental review of the way in which european capitals of culture are chosen. i'd like to say two things. the first is that i agree with those of you who have said that a solution of reparation can be a chance for the future. in the past, european capitals of culture were often not european enough. but if we have two capitals with bridges being built between them, there can be a very important strengthening of this european dimension. i can assure you that the commissioner who is speaking to you has taken up his pilgrim's staff to go, during the preparation of the cities, to plead the cause of a more european programme. i believe that the last three examples - graz, genoa and lille, to name just a few - are a remarkable effort to put the european dimension of culture on the agenda, beyond the regional and national dimensions. so you can see that i'm still optimistic, because i'm based on what's being done. we even see some member states anticipating by already doing what we would like to see in the future: healthy competition to choose the best city. it's wonderful what's happening in england! what a wonderful thing is being prepared in germany and elsewhere! we also know, of course, that there are negative examples, but i prefer, mr president, to focus today on the positive examples, because they are wonderful and show us that the capitals of europe are a good idea. a great idea that still has a great future ahead of it. i am very much counting on the bridges to be built between the cities. for example, the luxembourg proposal posed some problems because it was not sufficiently detailed. the jury objected. luxembourg presented a new project that creates synergies within the large region in europe, i.e. germany, luxembourg, belgium and france, and also creates synergies with a romanian city that historically has a specific relationship with luxembourg. luxembourgish is still spoken in luxembourg today. all this to show you that if we really do our job and push cities to be better, to be truly european in their cultural choices, the result can be very positive. i agree with the honourable members who have mentioned certain cities to show how the fact of becoming european capitals of culture has opened up new prospects for these cities by orienting them towards cultural industries, cultural tourism and cultural exposure. this is the case in a city like glasgow, for example, which is not really about culture at the outset. the same goes for liverpool. these cities are developing not only as industries and as social centres, but also as citizens and as cultural centres. if we work well in the future, as this parliament, whose last cultural debate is now, has done for the past five years, i have no doubt, mr president, that what your committee wanted, what your commissioner has always advocated, will be put into practice in the cultural cities of the future. i hope that the good examples of the past will be followed in the future and i wish all citizens and all those involved in cultural life much courage and much pleasure in meeting in the future in the cultural cities of europe.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. documents received: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0247/2004) by mr zissener, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a comprehensive framework for greater transparency in qualifications and competences (europass) (com (2003) 796 - c5-0648/2003 - 2003/0307 (cod)).
- i would like to thank the commissioner for her speech and her work this evening and in connection with the legislative assembly. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
(es) mr president, commissioner, the reason for the motion of censure, the signatories argue, is the scandal and the irregularities at eurostat. it is well known that the committee on budgetary control has been working very hard for some time to ensure that this matter is clarified and the problems arising from it are solved. it is true that the commission took a long time to react, but it finally did, it launched a fairly thorough reform and so far we think the results are satisfactory. it is true that the matter is not closed, since there is a judicial procedure in progress. that is why most of the political groups have prepared a resolution to be voted on at tomorrow's sitting, precisely because we are still concerned about a matter of such enormous importance as the fraud in eurostat. it is not a matter which we consider to be closed, and we think we have to keep a very close watch on it to prevent it from happening again in the future, either in eurostat or in some other commission body. the resolution which we shall be presenting tomorrow by various groups makes it very clear that parliament is vigilant, is fulfilling its mission and is exercising the control which the treaty attributes to it as a fundamental community institution throughout the procedure. this motion has no reason to exist, it is a purely electoral matter for the signatories, who are united in their anti-european sentiment and militancy, their euroscepticism and their continuing campaign against the european institutions. we therefore consider that this is an inappropriate motion. we as a parliament do our job, we have done it seriously and rigorously, and we will continue to do it, and we do not think that a group of members who call themselves anti-european and eurosceptic are the best suited to defend the transparency and good functioning of the european institutions. we have insisted in our work that we should trust the commission's management control, as we have done this morning, making it clear that we are still concerned about the eurostat problem, and that is why it seems to us absolutely out of place that small groups in this house - whose track record and approach to this matter have been well known from the outset and without any variation - want to use this matter in a partisan way. explanations, solutions or any kind of approach have been of no use to them. the position of the group of the european people's party is very clear and we continue to work for transparency, for clarification and also for the strengthening of the european institutions.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place during the may part-session.
- the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/45/ec on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and on the establishment of a common european railway safety regime (com (2002) 0245 final - c3-38/2004 - 2002/0315 (cod)) - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/45/ec on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and on the establishment of a common european railway safety regime (com (2002) 0245 final - 2002/0315 (cod)) - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/45/ec on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and on the establishment of a common european railway safety regime (com (2002) 0245 final - 2002/0315 (cod)) - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/45/ec on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and on the establishment of a common european railway safety regime (com (2002) 0245 final - c3-38/2004 - 2002/03 (cod)) - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending european parliament and of the council directive 96/45
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0237/2004) by mr rübig, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision 2000/819/ec establishing a multiannual programme to promote initiative and entrepreneurship, in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) (2001-2005) (com (2003) 758 - c5-0628/2003 - 2003/0292 (cod)).
- since the next two speakers are not present, this debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0235/2004) by mr van velzen, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a multiannual community programme to improve the accessibility, usability and commercial exploitation of digital content in the community (com (2004) 96 - c5-0082/2004 - 2004/0025 (cod)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. see the protocol. (the sitting was closed at 11.05 p.m.)
- we'll take that into account. i shall pass this request on to the president of parliament. it is undoubtedly a subject which is causing great concern among many european citizens of different political persuasions, and i have no doubt that this subject will be raised in parliament through the appropriate channels.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the outcome of the trial of leyla zana and others in ankara.
commission. mr president, i do not have many comments to make about the various contributions. i just wish to say that the independence of the judiciary is perverted when the very structure, performance and culture of part of the judiciary itself negate basic democratic principles. this is comparable to the situation in guantanamo. it is not good enough. we therefore welcome the proposed abolition of the state security courts, and the commission will attach due importance to this issue in our report on turkey in october.
- i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see the protocol. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the second item on the agenda is the joint debate on the following reports:- a5-0280/2004 by mr randzio-plath, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the commission recommendation on the 2004 update of the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states and the community (com (2004) 238 - c5-0183/2004 - 2004/2020 (ini)) and- a5-0277/2004 by mr hermange, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2004) 239 - c5-0188/2004 - 2004/0082 (cns)).
(es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i begin by congratulating mrs hermange on her good work and on the quality of the report, which we are all used to. much has been done in recent years in europe on the employment issue. in my country, the people's party government has created more than 4 300 000 jobs in its two terms. we all agree, of course, that the employment strategy itself needs to be reformed with considerable stability, and we all agree on the importance of the three objectives of full employment, improvement of the quality and productivity of work and strengthening of social cohesion, as we will agree in both the common and the specific recommendations. i would like to stress the importance of certain principles which should inspire the implementation of employment strategies, in addition, of course, to the already mentioned need for coordination of economic and social policies, and i would like to stress the need for a horizontal approach to policies such as those on equality, occupational health and integration, which i believe are essential stimuli in the construction of europe as an area of freedom, security and justice. i would also like to stress, madam president, the need to improve productivity in the face of relocation - as my colleague regina bastos has already stressed - with its negative repercussions on territorial cohesion and the necessary polycentrism of the european union. i believe that increasing productivity and the quality of work is the best remedy to curb offshoring. it is a question of the future of europe. i also believe that the link between the structural funds, the policies having an impact on territorial structuring and employment policy is essential for achieving territorial cohesion, which is a necessary instrument for a genuine polycentrism in the european union. the need for coordinated action by the european union, the member states, the regions and local authorities and, of course, social dialogue, which are other important instruments for the implementation of these guidelines.
(es) mr president, i am happy to answer the request made to me. firstly, on the subject of the disappearance of documents, i have sent a letter to mr cox, as he asked me to do yesterday, and i have sent copies to all my colleagues, the group chairmen, explaining that documents were indeed missing, but that, thanks to the work of the assistants and the officials of the groups and the committee, they were recovered before the meeting began. (agitation) at this point, i also expect vice-president podestà to explain to the house the serious accusations he has made in writing in the corriere della sera. that has not been discussed at all so far and is a serious insult to parliament. (applause from the left) as regards my remarks, i see that mr poettering has taken note of what i said, but not of what i was told. i mean, i'm asking for everything to be recorded. i'll explain what i said. i told mr tajani, who was like a basilisk - it's not an insult, it's a word whose meaning you can look up in the dictionary - "shut up, you bastard". "ungraceful", - and i refer you to the dictionary of the royal spanish academy of the language - is one who is not funny, and for me, it is manifestly so. (applause from the left) as for "jabalí", there is a problem that i admit is of spanish parliamentary culture. (agitación) "jabalí" is an expression that has been enshrined in spanish parliamentarism since the second spanish republic. mr. pérez madrigal was known to act as mr. pannella is acting at this moment - giving voices to the right and left. in spanish, "hacer el jabalí" is to do what many of his peers were doing. i am sure, mr poettering, that you have not received any complaint from the european boar association between yesterday and today about the similar. (applause) i would like to thank
chairman of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. i have indeed read the letter that mr barón crespo has sent to the presidency in connection with his unfortunate and ill-intentioned statements yesterday, and in which he confirms them in exactly the same terms as he did in his speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. documents which are public and which are available on the internet in addition to the documentation service. i would also like to emphasize, mr president, that no political group - including the pse group - or any member of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs made any comment or complaint about this, either during the vote on the amendments or at the beginning of the vote. in fact, mr president, at the end of the sitting i was congratulated by all the political groups on the way the work had been carried out. in conclusion, mr president, and in spanish, mr barón crespo has lied, manipulated reality and insulted us, besides casting doubt on the honesty of the members of this house, the officials and also the collaborators of the political groups. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) the president has not answered the request of the president of my group for a revision of the verbatim minutes of yesterday's sitting. as he himself has just admitted, mr baron crespo addressed a colleague yesterday by saying "shut up, you bastard". mr president, that is not only an authoritarian expression, but it also shows contempt for the adversary, which is incompatible with democratic values. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, it seems that being prudent in this house is penalized. i wanted to speak after the boogerd-quaak report was voted on, and not before, so as not to join the general fray, with one aim: to put myself at the disposal of the presidency. i was on the committee on civil liberties and human rights, justice and home affairs and i saw people looking for the documents when they disappeared. mr hernández mollar is right to say that he knew nothing and that no group stood up. we have worked very decently in that committee, all the groups and the presidency, until, after our work, this mess was organized. mr. baron is absolutely right, and he's not lying, when he says this happened. i am at your disposal to clarify any point in relation to this matter and, of course, it is false to say that mr baron lied. i informed him myself about the particular.
(es) mr president, when i came to this parliament 18 years ago, in a very different situation from the one which allows me to speak here, and even before the financial perspective was discussed, there was already a debate on own resources and the spanish socialists were already advocating the idea of progressive citizens' taxation. that is why, in voting on the report by mr wynn, chairman of the committee on budgets, i voted with the french socialists and the spanish socialists in favour of the idea that, before enlargement, the commission should have promoted - and this parliament too - the idea that to finance this union, this community, the easiest thing to do is to know what each one pays, with a taxation that the citizen understands and that is not based on the taxing capacity of the states, but on the income of each and every one of our fellow citizens.
(es) mr president, in 18 years i have also heard mr balfe speak many times and almost always had an opinion on what he said. i have the opportunity today to comment on an amendment which you have tabled to the kuckelkorn report in which mr balfe once again asks, and asks, to be treated as a european official. but he's not telling the whole truth. you forget to mention that european civil servants - the body i have the honour to be a member of - have only one social security scheme. the honourable members of parliament - among whom i am now - have only one. he asks for another, so if he wants to continue to ask for additional privileges to the rules and laws of his country of origin, he can do so. but as i believe and hope that he will not be a member of the european parliament again in the next term, i would encourage mr balfe to prepare an opposition as a european official and thus achieve all that he has repeatedly asked for.
- the next item is the report (a5-0182/2004) by mrs karamanou, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on women in south-eastern europe (2003/2128 (ini)).
(es) mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs anna karamanou, on her report today, which contains a great deal of information and will be very useful in trying to solve some of the problems we are facing today. we are talking, mr president, about democracy, because we are talking about equality and freedom, the result of which should be democracy. democracy has not reached the women of the balkans. trafficking in women, domestic violence, difficulty in accessing reproductive rights, political participation, unemployment, poverty and prostitution are the reality of thousands of women living in the region. in each of the countries there are particular realities. in albania, we could point to the serious increase in the trafficking of women and girls for sexual exploitation. bulgaria has no mechanisms at all to enable it to implement equal opportunities for men and women, which is a fundamental condition for the transposition of our rules. bosnia and herzegovina is also seeing an increase in trafficking of women and girls. in croatia, violence against women is not prosecuted. in greece we find serious problems of political representation of women. in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, sexual abuse of albanian and roma girls is an almost daily practice and the legislation does not include any law on the crime of trafficking. in romania we find ethnically motivated crimes, mainly against roma women. they have virtually no access to contraception and forced marriages and poverty are also part of their reality. in serbia and montenegro, there is a clear increase in trafficking in women, also influenced by the arrival of kafor troops. in turkey, gender-based violence is widespread and there is still a reduction in sentences for so-called "honour crimes". mr. president, let's open our eyes. let us take note of the situation of women in this region and let us not go further without taking into account the daily reality of thousands of women and girls who live in poverty, exploitation and lack of expectations. the european union must be the unavoidable lever, the incentive for these countries to commit themselves seriously to human rights and the freedom of their citizens. there is no cultural tradition that can be placed above universal human rights. there can be no first-class citizens and second-class citizens. the inequality of women in south-eastern europe must be a priority for all of us, because we are talking about democracy and not women's issues. we therefore call for a thorough follow-up of the accession agenda in the candidate countries and for greater efforts to show solidarity with the women who are waiting for it.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the european union's preparations for the conference on the revision of the ottawa treaty on anti-personnel mines.
commission. mr president, i am pleased to say that on this occasion i totally agree with mr posselt, which is not always the case. in reply to mr tannock, it is true that there is a big difference between antitank mines and antipersonnel mines. however, they too can be used in a perverse manner: an antipersonnel mine can be stacked on top of an antitank mine, which is extremely dangerous. there are all kinds of perverse ways of stacking and combining these mines. i do not mean that we should move beyond the scope of the ottawa treaty. we should use it forcefully and constructively and then consider how we can move on. the problem of increasing the number of countries actually complying with and ratifying the treaty is still a real problem. as a danish government minister i signed the ottowa treaty on behalf of my country. immediately after signing, the canadian government gave us all a nice ballpoint pen. i subsequently had a meeting with the roaming us ambassador. i felt sorry for him and gave him the pen i had just used to sign, saying that at least his government would have a pen that knew how to sign the treaty. we still need to exert pressure on those countries that are not on board, including the eu member state named during the debate. the most important and effective thing way of proceeding in post-conflict situations is, if possible, to have the two sides in a conflict join together in demining mapping. nicaragua was a good example of this, even though that was never a dirty guerrilla war. it was well-organised and both sides had mapped what they had done. in nicaragua, working together became in itself part of the reconciliation and confidence-building process. in this case it was possible, but in many cases it is not. this is part of the problem. having said that, local communities were mobilised in a fantastic way in cambodia to provide intelligence for mapping, and a long-term broad participatory approach was taken to moving things forward. we have to use our global presence not only to provide money but also to act as a catalyst for the use of best practice. we should probably also be doing more in terms of research and development in the field of detection technologies. this is all part of what we intend to do in the coming years. let me conclude by thanking members for their very positive contributions.
- we thank you for your commitment to this issue, commissioner. i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see the protocol. this meeting is closed.
- b5-0204/2004 by lipietz, ortuondo larrea and frassoni, for the greens/efa group, on the situation in cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents; - b5-0207/2004 by belder, for the edd group, on the situation in cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents; - b5-0208/2004 by lage, for the pse group, on cuba; - b5-0122/2004 by morgantini, frahm and schmid, for the eldr group, on the human rights situation in cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents; - b5-0145/2004 by ubeiro, for the uen, for the gue/ngl group, on the situation in cuba; - b5-0145/2004 by ubeiro, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the uen, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the un, for the
mr president, it seems that a draft resolution on the situation of prisoners at guantanamo will be put to the vote today in the united nations commission on human rights, at the request of the cuban government. i wonder: with what authority can the castro government ask for explanations about the situation of these prisoners and demand measures to ensure that their rights are respected, when cuba still has 74 citizens imprisoned in inhuman conditions, hundreds of kilometres from their homes, for the sole crime of wanting to exercise their inalienable right to freedom of expression and thought? we too condemn in the strongest terms what is happening in guantanamo. but precisely because we have the coherence that the castro government is cynically demanding from the european union in geneva - a coherence which it is unable to exercise - we also condemn, once again, the arbitrary detentions of cuban dissidents. it is true that julio antonio valdés has been released, and we are glad of that. but we do not want to call ourselves a fraud and forget that the other dissidents are still in prison and that this imprisonment and the conditions contrary to all international conventions on it constitute a flagrant violation of fundamental rights. we also do not want to forget that the varela project is still not being implemented and that osvaldo payá, who was awarded the sakharov prize by parliament, is still unable to leave cuba. the resolution we are discussing is therefore an opportunity, perhaps a chance to repeat what the socialist group has said - which is why it did not want to sign this resolution - but in any case a necessary one, because unfortunately the facts in cuba are also repeated and the situation has not only not changed but has worsened over the months. we do not want this parliament or the commission to abandon those who are fighting peacefully to defend freedom, nor do we want to silence their suffering or that of their families. we want to tell them once again from this forum that we are still with them and that, despite the isolation in which they have been confined, we do not forget them and that we continue to make their struggle our struggle, in the hope that cuba may one day begin to walk the path of democracy.
- i have been informed by certain members that they have been incorrectly mentioned as authors of resolutions. if that is true, we apologize to them, but the agenda we received shows that there are seven motions for resolutions, each of which has an author. that's why it's correct. we shall certainly continue the debate and then we shall look at the actual motions for resolutions or see whether there is a joint motion. now you must express your ideas.
(es) mr president, i shall vote against the so-called compromise resolution, which my socialist group has not signed, because i consider it unfair, partial and ignorant of the framework of aggression and threat that cuba has been undergoing for almost 50 years from the united states. there are several dozen countries in the world where the situation of human rights and freedom is objectively worse than in cuba, but we do not speak of those countries here with the same concern, but with almost all of them the european union maintains relations and with one, by the way, we have voted without hesitation, today, a renewed cooperation agreement. what there isn't in the world is several dozen countries against which the united states has the obsessive fixation it has with cuba. in this matter, both our agenda and the scandalous double standard of our approaches are set by the united states, with the naïve or deliberate complicity of a number of colleagues. i am in favour of the release of the seventy or so convicts who are in prison in cuba. but i do so with the awareness that in our countries those who have been found guilty of collaborating with an aggressor power would also be in prison. and i do so by stepping out in the footsteps of those who distort the truth, both in referring to the processes in which these prisoners were tried and to the conditions in which they are treated in the course of their sentences. it cannot seem absurd to anyone, mr president, and even less so to the cubans, that after the disastrous adventure 'for the democratization of iraq', the bush administration should embark on an operation of similar characteristics 'for the democratization of cuba'. for this as for the previous one, the white house would find supporters among us, but i certainly will not be one of them, nor will i be one of those who would later regret not having resisted earlier. i also say that there is a situation of human rights violations, of attacks on the rule of law and of the illegal and inhumane imprisonment, not of 70 but of more than 600 men, neither convicted nor subjected to any judicial proceedings. but that is what is happening in the part of the island occupied by the united states: the guantanamo base. i am shocked that those colleagues who are collecting signatures for the respect of the rights of prisoners in cuban prisons and for visiting those prisons do not include the situation of the prisoners at guantanamo and the visit to the corresponding dungeons. speaking of the human rights of cuban citizens, i would remind you that in the united states there are five cuban prisoners sentenced to terrible penalties in trials that raise doubts about their legal security, all for actions in defence of their people against the action of terrorist groups based in miami. they and their families are denied their rights by the us administration, in accordance with the most basic rules of international humanitarian law. we have received the call from the council and the commission to do so, and today we reiterate our support and ask for parliament's support for the five men whom the cuban people consider to be their heroes, and for their relatives, some of whom have not been able to meet them for months, but for years, mr president.
(es) mr president, my group has always defended the principles of respect for and defence of freedoms, human and social rights and the rights of peoples, their sovereignty and their democratic development. we must always work from the standpoint of objectivity and no one in this house can deny that it is objectively verifiable and indisputable that cuba has achieved a high level of development in the social, economic, scientific and technological aspects, despite its international isolation and the stifling blockade by the united states, which it has suffered for almost half a century. this is evidenced by the most advanced and reliable studies and research carried out by many united nations agencies. this development also includes fundamental aspects of daily life, such as education, culture, sport and health. i regret that some members of this house continue to be so irresponsibly and unobjectively angry with the cuban government, while refusing to condemn very serious situations in other parts of the world, caused by washington's directives, namely the curtailment of freedoms, the interference in the politics of other countries by the united states, and the prisoners at guantanamo, about whom you say nothing and whose inhuman situation you do not condemn. they don't recognize their human rights, because the united states has decided that they are in no man's land. but this territory belongs to the united states, it's located on cuban territory and cuba is a sovereign country. there can be no double standard in the application of human rights at international level. it is very regrettable that some groups in this house continually condemn the situation in cuba concerning political prisoners, dissidents of the cuban government and yet avoid discussing the appalling conditions of the five cuban detainees imprisoned in the united states, denying them visits from their families and a fair trial. our group has been denouncing it in this house and no one has heard of these prisoners. i wonder whether the prisoners in the united states, guantanamo, the 10,000 in iraq and other countries do not deserve the same consideration and treatment by this house of the european union? my group believes that human rights are universal, and we stand for freedom of expression, recognition of visits by relatives of prisoners and respect for the government of each country, without political interference by other countries.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place after the debate.
- b5-0191/2004 by hughes, van den berg, gillig and karamanou, on behalf of the pse group, lambert, bouwman and breyer, on behalf of the green group, gerhard schmid, bakopoulos and koulourianos, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the respect for fundamental workers' rights in the production of sports equipment for the olympic games;
commission. the european commission supports the strengthening of core labour standards and social governance in the context of globalisation. it has taken various policy initiatives in this field. it considers that more should be done to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation, and will contribute to the follow-up to the report recently presented by the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation established by the international labour organisation. with regard to the olympic games, the european commission financially supports the implementation of the charter of intent adopted by the organising committee for the winter olympic games in turin in 2006. this sets out the organising committee's commitment to dealing with ethical, environmental and social issues and to reporting on the social impact of the activities and compliance with the ethical standards. this initiative could also be very relevant for the 2004 summer olympic games. the european commission also contributes to the promotion of corporate social responsibility, workers' rights and decent work in the sports goods industry. it encourages the involvement and commitment of all actors, for example to combating the use of child labour in the production of fifa-licensed sportswear and footballs. a similar approach covering all core labour standards could be developed for the upcoming olympic games with relevant partners such as the global trade unions, broader civil society, the international olympic committee, the world federation of sporting goods industry, the different brands and companies and the ilo. the commission will continue its efforts to promote a more cohesive approach to harnessing globalisation, also tackling issues such as the application of fair rules in global supply and production chains. this is what the commission can provide in response to the concerns raised. however, with the organisers of the olympic games having given up the ideals of amateurism and voluntarily buried themselves in the deep dark hole of big money, there is a limit to what we can expect from them in the sphere economic ethics. they represent just another case in which we could discuss corporate social responsibility. in my view they are not a special case. they lost their innocence ages ago. the real problem is so huge that we must dig deep into our resources to continue the broader general struggle of ensuring decency triumphs in a world capable of producing child labour, etc. – with or without the olympic games.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place after the debate.
- the motion for a resolution (b5-0194/2004 by mr andrews, on behalf of the uen group, on nigeria; - the motion for a resolution (b5-0203/2004 by mr tannock, mr corrie, mr sacrédeus and mr posselt, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on nigeria; - the motion for a resolution (b5-0205/2004 by mr rod, mr isler béguin and mr maes, on behalf of the greens/ale group, on nigeria); - the motion for a resolution (b5-0206/2004 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on nigeria); - the motion for a resolution (b5-0209/2004 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on nigeria); - the motion for a resolution (b5-0211/2004 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on nigeria); - the motion for a resolution (b5-0213/2004 by mr boudjenah, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on nigeria).
commission. mr president, the commission shares the concern at conflicts between communities in nigeria and condemns all attacks and violence, whether apparently ethnic, religious or social, etc. in origin. we caution against a simplistic analysis of the situation which focuses on just one area or religious group. the violence is often related to conflicts over access to resources or triggered by political tensions. in the case of plateau state, the causes of violence are related to both these reasons and the perpetrators have come from both sides of the community. it is factually wrong to describe this as something driven only by islamic fundamentalists. for information, i would add that plateau state is not a state which applies sharia law, and it is not likely to because it has an overwhelming christian majority composed of groups of indigenous people and settlers. in very many cases, there is a sort of social clash between incomer settler groups and the original inhabitants – a version of a conflict that we see in very many other places. the problem with understanding nigeria is that there are several layers of problems, and each layer is normally enough to create a conflict. therefore this complex situation is something we really have to respect in order to do something useful. for the second time this afternoon i have to say that i agree with mr posselt's contribution. we have similar views on this situation. his reference to yugoslavia is also very important because there we have assisted in a so-called solution which is contrary to what we, for very good reasons, find necessary for africa, namely to avoid changing the geography. even though we gave them nonsensical borders, europe and others rightly agree with africa itself that, as long as africa does not want to change the borders, we definitely should not advise it to do that, even if it is difficult. conflicts between communities in nigeria have been evident for some time and we have been following the situation as part of the early warning system for conflict which the commission is setting up. the commission has also adapted its cooperation programme to reflect that situation. support for human rights in nigeria is a significant component of our cooperation strategy for the country. nigeria was also selected as a focal country for the european initiative for democracy and human rights to respond to precisely the sort of concerns raised by parliament. three projects were approved last year, including one with a nigerian ngo working in plateau state and kaduna state to promote peace between muslims and christians. the project also covers improving the drafting and application of sharia law in conformity with the guarantees of religious freedom provided in the nigerian constitution as well as respect for the international conventions providing protection for human rights which the country has signed. in other words, reasonable co-existence between sharia law and the constitution of nigeria is an option. this is what the country is trying to organise. i mention this simply by way of a warning that we must not move blindly in one direction without really reflecting on the complexities involved. as i have already said, other conflicts relating to religious differences are very important and we should be careful not to overlook or marginalise these other aspects. if we fail to understand this, we will not be of much use in a dialogue aimed at stopping the conflicts. social, economic and ethnic problems – all these other layers of problems i have mentioned – have to be given a proper place in the analysis. at federal level the commission is working with member states to strengthen political dialogue with nigeria. this dialogue is one of the instruments provided by the cotonou agreement and the federal government is participating actively in that dialogue. we have adapted to the special realities of nigeria, where the states play a powerful role, and in fact the bulk of our work relating to water and sanitation is being done in six of the 36 states that make up the federal republic of nigeria. we have chosen the six states not on the basis of where it is easiest to work, but where need is greatest. although, in so doing, we are inviting problems, this is the most meaningful way of working on matters that relate to the core of the problems underlying what we are discussing here this afternoon. we share this house's call for the federal government to do everything in its power to protect its citizens, put an end to violence and promote respect of human rights, including of course freedom of religion. we hope that parliament's adoption of a resolution which is balanced on this issue will be seen as meaningful encouragement along these lines.
- i give the floor to mr rübig, who has a point of order.
- thank you, mr rübig. we take note of your remarks, which will be dealt with accordingly.
we're not going to pursue this case. it has been discussed at length in the last few days and the president of parliament has spoken at length on it on several occasions. the negotiations on violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law have been concluded.
- we now move to the vote on the results of the vote on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law: see minutes.
- the agenda of the parliament has been exhausted. composition of committees and delegations - forwarding of resolutions adopted at this part-session - written declarations - date and place of next part-session: see minutes. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
(es) mr president, madam vice-president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those of the ten new countries joining the union. first of all, mr president, i would like to express my gratitude and congratulations to you for having represented the european parliament in a worthy manner at these events. i would also like to express my gratitude and congratulations to the prodi commission and especially to commissioner verheugen for having carried out this task. today we have a date with history and with our future. from the decisive step taken last saturday we are taking a great and historic leap forward by bringing together the largest part of the surface and the population of our continent, for the first time in history, without it being an emperor, a king, a general or a dictator who decides to do so. we have all freely decided that. and this is the fact that makes the difference. we have heard the ode to joy by beethoven who was also a freedom fighter, and political censorship changed the word freiheit to freude and therefore i think we should talk about the ode to joy and freedom, because freedom is what has united us all. (applause) we have been able to take this step because we believe in democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, good governance, the rule of law and a secular union that respects everyone's beliefs and philosophies. this is what has allowed us to come together under these circumstances. it was democracy. and we must not ignore the fact that our continent has lived through a 20th century which has been the age of extremes and in which nazi, fascist and communist dictatorships have dominated for a part of it. first, the liberation of europe after the second world war, and then a chain reaction which has been accelerating; just over a week ago we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the carnation revolution in portugal, which was a very important event in bringing an end to the salazar dictatorship; then my country was incorporated - (applause) - then solidarność in poland; then came the fall of the berlin wall, and now we are reviewing what we have done since the fall of the berlin wall, with the entry of the 10 new members. i am told by my greek colleagues that they too have overcome a fascist dictatorship, and i think we can all congratulate ourselves on the fact that we have had to fight to win freedom, and i also hope that now, with the entry of the 10 new members, we can complete this historic process and that the reunification of the republic of cyprus, which is also an absolutely necessary step, will not be left unfinished. (applause) never in the history of europe have so many people lived together in peace, democracy, the rule of law and on the basis of a sovereignty and a shared destiny. europe is being reborn, it is a great challenge and a historical process of creation of major importance, not only to live in interdependence, but also to give a response to globalization; europe has much to contribute. we have important challenges ahead of us: firstly, to overcome our own fears, which we must not ignore among our citizens; we have to do a pedagogical work of explanation, pointing out that the opportunities far outweigh the costs, and that we are prepared to deal with this complexity. why would you do that? because there is a spirit of solidarity and also a deep foundation that sustains us and strengthens us through shared values. shared values which are also based on brotherhood and mutual tolerance. the long courtship has come to an end, we have married, we share the same house and the same future. now, we are a family not only with the same rights, but also with the same obligations, those who were, those who have been incorporated, like my country and others, and those who are coming now. i believe that the best thing we could do to bring this legislature to a close and make way for a europe with 25 member states is to bring to a close the process of final adoption of the european constitution, which, fortunately, has been unblocked since march, and i say this with the legitimate pride of coming from a country which has allowed this unblocking. i think that what we have to ask of the council, which is unfortunately absent today, and of the intergovernmental conference, before which you will have to speak, mr president, is that they fulfil their duty and their historic responsibility and that we can have a european constitution by june. that is the next stage that will crown this successful enlargement. i extend my hand in friendship to all the comrades and colleagues joining us today. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, it is a good initiative for my group to commemorate monnet and spinelli today. because without monnet, the great inspiration in the shadows, the declaration of 9 may 1950, which is the founding document of the european construction, would not have been understood, and without that declaration there would have been no franco-german reconciliation and it would not have been possible to reconcile the europeans either. and without their resolute commitment to solidarity, it would not have been possible to move towards a common market, the prelude to political union. and without their institutional vision, and particularly the key role of the european commission, we would not have been able to overcome the narrow straitjacket of intergovernmental cooperation. twenty years ago, too - and this was mentioned here - this house, which had been democratically elected for the first time, adopted the treaty known as the spinelli treaty, whose rapporteur was spinelli himself. the spinelli treaty has been an inexcusable reference for all the successive amendments: the single act, the maastricht, amsterdam and nice treaties and, of course, the treaty drawn up by the convention. when i had the honour of chairing the european parliament delegation to that convention, i always had the spinelli project by my side. and i was thinking, "what did spinelli say to this?" and i must say to you that, although it was drawn up 20 years ago, the 'spinelli treaty' was extraordinarily contemporary and many of the proposals it made are today in the constitutional treaty. there is something in common between monnet and spinelli, mr president: they both wanted to bring people together. "we unite men", said monnet. and the whole "spinelli treaty" is full of references to citizens, to people. i think - as my friend dick roche said earlier - that both of us would be proud of what we have done over the years, because i believe that the draft constitutional treaty is a treaty for the people. this is the case from the very first article, when it speaks of a union of states and citizens, and also when it grants the european parliament full legislative and political control powers, or when it introduces national parliaments, through the early warning system. and also the popular initiative and the recognition of the role of the regions and municipalities and of the ngos, all this is in favour of the people. we, in this work, over the course of 50 years, have done what both monnet and spinelli asked us to do: bring people together. and let me also tell you a little secret: as a child, i was between monnet and spinelli, when i left my country, which in the words of gil de biedma was "an old inefficient country", i found a europe full of walls, the berlin wall, the pyrenees wall, the wall of dictatorships, the wall of selfishness and the wall of nationalism. the europe of today, the europe my daughter is already seeing, is a europe without walls and those who are left will fall. and i want to say to the new countries that are part of the european union, at this moment when a beautiful enlargement has taken place, when we have sewn together the two europas, when we have made that draft of the declaration of 9 may a reality, that i hope they will enjoy our accession to the union as we spaniards do, with a horizon of freedoms, prosperity and above all of sharing a common project. mr president, politicians are always talking about the future and there will be time - i believe - to fight battles and to overcome the obstacles we have, but i think that today we have meditated on the past, on monnet and spinelli, and i ask you to enjoy the present. because today's present is a beautiful present. monnet and spinelli would certainly be called utopians, but lamartine's verses were much more correct, when they said that utopia is nothing but a premature truth. and today, the avatars of life often make reality more beautiful than literature. i think, therefore, that today we have to enjoy this beautiful moment, savor it, enjoy it. we have made the great europe, and this fine morning, as i was walking towards this palace in strasbourg, i was thinking of that episode of johann wolfgang von goethe in balmy, when he suddenly stood up before a group of people and, possessed by a strange force, said: 'we are living in a historic moment, life will never be the same again and you will be able to say: we were there'. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by paying tribute to jean monnet and altiero spinelli, two visionaries, two anti-fascists and two courageous people. i would also like to recall that jean monnet quoted the swiss philosopher amiel very often, saying the following: 'experience begins anew in each person, only institutions become wiser, they accumulate collective experience and, thanks to this experience and wisdom, men subjected to the same rules will not only see their nature transformed, but gradually their behaviour.' and that is what we are doing here in parliament, and what we want to do with the european constitution as well. my dear friend, mr méndez de vigo, has said that he carried the "spinelli treaty" in his wallet when he worked at the convention. i can tell you that when we were preparing the maastricht treaty i had the opportunity to speak to paco ordóñez, who was the spanish foreign minister, and he told me that he had the spinelli treaty in his pocket and i had it in my pocket too, and i recommend to minister roche that he should have the spinelli treaty in his pocket when he has to find some imaginative solution. i would also like to add that there is a lot of talk about solidarity, about the policy of taking things one step at a time and so on, but one thing must be remembered, that the declaration of 9 may 1950 is a declaration which begins by talking about peace - as our colleague john hume has done today. the issue was peace, not just making a common market for steel and coal. and, having said that, mr president, i would like to express on behalf of my group our full support for the statement by the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament on the constitution. i think it is time to support this statement in the circumstances the minister has raised. i reiterate our support for the draft constitution as it came out of the convention. we are aware that there are some specific points to be dealt with, not in relation to values - we are very happy with this democratic and secular europe for all - but we do believe that there are some issues to be outlined. one of them - and i say this from a country which, with a completely wrong view, under the previous government, blocked the constitutional debate - is qualified majority voting in the council. we have always been clearly in favour of that system. i would like minister roche to explain to the house how many times the ioannina commitment has been applied in the past, because perhaps there may be proposals along that line which would not be the best. i would also like to add another important element, which is in the draft that was adopted in thessaloniki but does not appear afterwards: that there must be a legislative council, because laws must be made publicly and they must be made transparently, and there must also be a shared legislative power, not only to make laws but also to approve budgets. and finally, mr president, i am addressing the president of parliament to a very important specific request from the committee on constitutional affairs, namely that he, as president of parliament, and our representatives in the intergovernmental conference, be allowed to take part fully in the discussions of the conference. and also that during this period, since the european parliament is always in session, they can inform the house by the most appropriate means. there is nothing to prevent this and it is important from the point of view of the timetable proposed to us by the president-in-office of the council. i think this is a very important element and i think that in parliament we will obviously be campaigning. and a noble element of this campaign is that we contribute to advancing the constitution. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european company law is a very important one. we're in a very complicated situation now. a new president-in-office of the council is to be proposed. there is too long a transitional and interim period and that is not good for the commission or the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hereby conclude 15 years of service to this house, which, i mean, is the legitimate representative of the european citizens and which i have had the honour of presiding over. i would not be worthy of the jean monnet and schuman medals if i were simply to look at the 25 flags with satisfaction and welcome the comrades from the new member states with joy, or if i were simply satisfied with the way i have travelled. we must talk about the future of europe, that is what we are discussing. i believe that the future of europe depends on overcoming five challenges: completing enlargement, facilitating more effective and more democratic european institutions, effectively combating terrorism inside and outside europe, providing the union with the financial means to carry out financial policies and, finally, making the union a factor of peace and development worldwide. i have spoken of completing enlargement, because today we have the immense satisfaction of having 10 new states and their representatives in this parliament, but that cannot make us forget that we must fulfil the commitments we have made to bulgaria and romania and that we have a moral duty to complete the peace work we have done in the rest of the balkans and to incorporate those states into our european family. until we have finished it, we cannot realistically say that the iron curtain has been completely overcome and that we have achieved the inclusion of everyone in the european family. the second challenge, to provide the union with efficient institutions, requires the adoption and ratification of the constitution. i have expressed my views on this constitution in the report which was adopted by this house and which i drew up with professor tsatsos. i would just like to add one thing today, especially for those who are being led by internal whips: it is very important that we can have a simple and understandable majority decision, but it is essential that this system of majorities, mr president-in-office of the council - and i am speaking to you in particular - should be sufficient to enable decisions to be taken with balance within the union, without providing for directories or groups which seek to lead other groups of states. and this is a difficult task which the irish presidency certainly has to complete and on which the ratification which is not acquired in advance will depend to a large extent. i have also referred to financial sufficiency. it is a principle that jean monnet has already stressed, without which we will have a larger europe but a much emptier one. a europe which will not be able to implement the community policies that have existed up to now. that is not something that can be solved by the constitution and i very much fear, mr president, that this will lead to a crisis in our europe in the years to come, a crisis which i hope will be overcome. it will be overcome simply by adhering to a basic principle, the principle of solidarity. solidarity, not sterile rivalries or ridiculous claims to hegemony: that is the message i would like to leave today as i take my leave. i would like to thank all those who have been in this chamber during my three terms of office: members, officials and collaborators of the groups or other members who have represented the council and the commission, and all the authorities with whom i have had the opportunity to deal. i have learned a great deal from all of them and i urge all of them to continue the fight for a europe that is more democratic, more just and more united, and capable of overcoming the crises that arise. the future, mr president, does not belong to those who allow themselves to be enveloped by the shadows of doubt or danger. the future belongs to those who, in the uncertainties of the present, know how to see the dawn of the morning coming. (applause) i would like to thank
(es) mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague and compatriot josé maría gil-robles on the work he has done in this house, on his contribution as president of this house in the previous stage, which has made possible the stage we are opening today: the stage of enlargement and political deepening. i would like to express my gratitude to him, especially because he was the author, together with our colleague mr tsatsos, of the report in which this house supported the draft european constitution drawn up by the convention in which i had the honour of participating. the draft european constitution is intended to put the union in a position to face up to the major challenges of the future, not just enlargement, which are already on the table. intervene in globalisation to democratize and socialise it, to help build a new international order that is fair, democratic and respects international law, and, of course, to respond to the demands of citizens. we need a stronger, more democratic, more effective union, which ensures the consolidation and development of the european social model. a secular europe, respecting the values that have defined civic coexistence, respect for human rights, multiparty democracy. the rule of law that is now present throughout this great europe. mr president, there is no new europe and no old europe, as mr rumsfeld wanted, but there is a great europe, the one sitting here in this parliament today, the europe of the citizens, the europe that has broken down borders, the europe that has reunited the continent. we must make the european constitution a reality, and in that sense we must demand once again that the draft convention be adopted as soon as possible, certainly during the irish presidency. as a spaniard, i am pleased to see that the arrival of a new government in my country will make it possible to unblock the intergovernmental conference and approve that constitution, so that all community bodies can function properly, including... (the president cut the speaker off)
- the written explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, we are a large majority in this parliament, as in european society, who want a political europe and welcome the new member states, who want a constitution that will advance the union as a political entity united in diversity, to consolidate this historical experience, unique in today's world, in a continent which, even in the last century, has seen terribly tragic experiences. the stateless nations, like mine, galicia, are not yet recognized as such in the draft constitution. as we want a political europe, a europe of the peoples and citizens, we will continue to fight for this recognition and for self-determination within the union. if we want a political europe, mr president, we must say that it will not exist without a social europe, the achievement of which is particularly urgent with the integration of brotherly peoples whose per capita income does not exceed 40% of that of the union of the fifteen. in this situation it is paradoxical and irresponsible for the wealthier states, which say they want a political europe, to try to impose a reduced budget of the european union, which amounts to only 1% of gdp, even though, with enlargement, the inhabitants of the territories eligible for objective 1 (which have less than 75% of the average per capita income) will double, or rather, will increase from the current 63 million to 153 million in the coming years. the budget is not going to be solved if it is limited to the 1.14% proposed by the commission. if we continue along this line, we shall not be moving towards social europe. per capita funding in the objective 1 regions will be cut in half, thus undermining the cohesion policy that has helped to shape the whole of the union. and this will be negative, both for the union of the fifteen and for the union of the twenty-seven in the enlarged union.
the commission. mr president, if we could characterize tonight's debate and give it a title, we would say that it is a debate on solidarity. it was indeed the word that was heard more than any other tonight and, of course, the need to strengthen it was stressed many times and i hope, as mr libicki and mr kroupa said earlier, that we will be able to make europe and our countries better for us and our children and be able to live with the democracy, security and freedom that the european union guarantees us and the common desire of all the peoples of europe, without sacrificing freedoms. i have followed the debate very closely, and i can say that it has become clear that economic and social policy cannot be dissociated from each other. the approach we adopted last year, deciding to modernise and combine these two policy areas, is therefore the right one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the slow economic growth in the early years of the lisbon strategy, and therefore of the social policy agenda, may raise doubts, as mrs lulling has said before, about the underlying logic of the modernisation approach adopted in 2000. the fact that several intermediate objectives will not be achieved in 2005, such as unemployment, as mrs ainardi and others have pointed out, and the increase in the employment rate of older workers, which is much lower than the rate we have been aiming for, can all feed criticism. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we must not only remain faithful, as mr marini has stressed, to the principles on which the european economic and social model is based and which are contained in the lisbon strategy, but also be committed to the objectives of that strategy. this does not exclude that adjustments may be required in respect of the specific policy measures and their methods of implementation. but it is clear that the european union should take advantage of the economic recovery and the enlargement momentum to give new impetus to the lisbon strategy, focusing in particular on certain priorities such as improving investment in networks and technological knowledge, as highlighted by many, including mrs grossetête, mr szabó and many others, strengthening the competitiveness of industry and services and extending working life. in general, the new member states face and are facing the same challenges in implementing structural reforms as the old member states. of course, as many have pointed out, such as mr krasts, mrs šlesere, the new member states are certainly having greater difficulties in some cases. of course, some countries, such as poland, as mrs ciemniak said, have high growth rates, 6%, and have achieved faster reforms in the area of structural reforms. in this area of structural reforms the new member states must focus particularly on creating conditions to boost productivity growth, as productivity levels are generally very low, and on tackling the high levels of structural and long-term unemployment mentioned by mr siekierski. i would also like to mention at this point a point raised by mrs jensen at the beginning of the debate and taken up again later, the question of the free movement of workers. it is known that transitional arrangements are in place. this translated into different national practices covering the whole spectrum from 0 to 7 years. but regardless of any gradations in the transitional periods, which i hope will prove unnecessary and be abolished as soon as possible, or restricted as much as possible, i must stress that freedom of movement and the right to settle and work in another member state constitute fundamental freedoms protected by community law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to stress again what i said in my initial speech, that highly integrated and interdependent economies, which share a common market, need effective coordination of economic policy formulation and implementation, both at national and european union level. all the components of the economic coordination framework are closely linked to this overall strategy. i also agree with those who have stressed, like mrs thyssen, that the only way to accelerate progress is to make further reforms. we must extend our coordination beyond budgetary matters to cover broader economic policy issues and we must take into account both the social and environmental dimension which mrs myller has spoken of and has mentioned what i have said and emphasized before and i make it clearer now, namely that countries which provide high social protection, such as denmark and sweden, manage to be highly competitive. we must find, mr president, the political will to extend our coordination to all the areas covered by the lisbon strategy, so as to achieve greater growth and more employment.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the freedom and security of citizens of the union.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for this last opportunity to address parliament on the development of the area of freedom, security and justice in an enlarged europe. the commission and parliament have been together for five years, and the contribution and constructive cooperation of this parliament, sometimes in very difficult circumstances and with very tight deadlines, will undoubtedly be one of the major milestones of this legislature. recent eurobarometer surveys organised by the commission demonstrate the general desire of citizens for more europe. these expectations are even greater in the context of an enlarged europe of 455 million inhabitants. the new citizens of the union want to live freely in a world of security, just like everyone else. security is not just about fighting crime, security is a means of ensuring freedom. these two concepts are inseparable and the commission has always sought to strike a balance between freedom and security. the third element of this area is, of course, justice, which contributes to the protection of freedom and to the guarantee of security in an area where the mobility and interrelationship of people and businesses across national borders are an increasingly present reality. today, many citizens of the union still fear the security consequences of enlargement. it's important to address those fears with rational argument. the enlargement process has strengthened the capacity of the new member states to contribute to the development of stability and security throughout the european union, not only by receiving the acquis communautaire but also by improving the police and judicial capacity that the commission has supported over the past five years. negotiations with the acceding countries were concluded only when it was mutually agreed that a satisfactory level of alignment with the existing legislative framework and an adequate enforcement capacity by the new member states had been achieved. in all cases, further progress is still needed. the commission will play its normal role as guardian of the treaties and will continue to provide substantial financial assistance following the phare projects, which will continue until 2006, and thereafter through a schengen mechanism and the transition facility itself. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's budget. another aspect that has been conveyed by the media concerns the fear of a massive movement of new citizens across europe. as i have already had occasion to say here, these fears are unjustified. the commission has carried out a study which shows that in the next five years about 1% of the total working population of the new member states will exercise the right to move. this means less than 220 000 people a year in a union of over 450 million people. i would like to remind you, even in my own personal capacity, that on the eve of enlargement to include spain and portugal, similar fears were raised, which proved to be completely unfounded. the treaty of accession provides for the possibility for the present 15 member states to apply transitional measures. they are sufficient and i hope they are indeed merely transitory. enlargement also represents a real challenge for certain specific policies, notably the strengthening of external border controls. we hope that the external borders agency will be operational from 1 january 2005 to support the efforts of the 10 new member states to improve border control. as parliament knows, the internal border controls of the new member states will only be abolished following a specific evaluation process and a subsequent council decision. but this two-stage process will only be completed once the schengen information system, the so-called 'second generation' sis, has been established. the timely development of sis ii is therefore a priority for the commission and will require the active involvement of all member states. in the field of judicial cooperation, the enlarged europe makes mutual trust even more indispensable to ensure the full operation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions. in this connection, certain procedural measures need to be improved, for example those provided for in the framework decision on procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings which the commission has just presented to the council, and mutual trust between all the member states of the union needs to be strengthened through better mutual knowledge of their legislative and judicial systems. at the request of the european parliament, the commission is in the process of setting up an exchange programme for judges from all member states, both in civil and criminal matters. finally, as regards justice and home affairs policies, we are faced with a number of challenges. one of them is the visa policy and, in particular, the principle of reciprocity in this area, which has been the subject of careful attention by the commission. in an enlarged union, for the area of justice and home affairs to work, it is essential that the constitutional treaty comes into force, that the structure of the pillars is abolished, that the co-decision process is generalized to ensure full democratic accountability for decisions in this area. judicial control needs to be improved by extending the jurisdiction of the court of justice and giving the commission the powers typical of infringement proceedings. the draft constitutional treaty responds to these challenges by proposing the introduction of qualified majority voting in the area of the common policy on immigration, asylum and external borders and the strengthening of the provisions on the integration of third-country nationals legally resident in the european union. the principle of solidarity, which is already in place, will be more clearly enshrined in the constitutional text on border control, asylum and immigration. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that 1 may marks not only the date of accession of the 10 new member states but also the expiry of the deadline set by the treaty of amsterdam for the completion of the first phase of the gradual development of an area of freedom, security and justice. the commission will shortly present a communication assessing progress over the past five years and including initial guidelines for future priorities. these priorities will be built on the common values of freedom, security and justice of an enlarged europe and should be based on the progress that we all hope will be provided for in the future constitutional treaty, which must be swiftly adopted for it to enter into full force.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to welcome the 162 new members of this house on behalf of my group, in the hope that from this first debate on the freedom and security of citizens in an enlarged europe, and for me the last as a member of this house, we can draw clear reflections, not only on the framework already created during the more than 50 years of the european project, but also on the challenges and the challenges we face in this common future which we have just begun. freedom, security and justice. in my view, these are matters in which the need and urgency to deal with the profound changes that are coming to a europe of 450 million citizens have been manifested, and which, unfortunately, is advancing, as we see, sometimes in the wake of such tragic events as terrorist attacks or the sad deaths of the victims of immigration. the great challenge facing us is clearly to articulate a new geopolitical and demographic space in a dynamic, changing and constantly growing europe. i therefore support everything that the commissioner has just said on this point. we have worked hard over the past five years to ensure that the fundamental rights of our citizens are guaranteed and protected, and the results are in sight, such as the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, the steps towards adopting common guarantees in criminal proceedings throughout the union and the implementation of the european arrest warrant, which guarantees one of the main rights, namely the right for society to pursue without restraint those who endanger the life and safety of citizens. the protection of victims of crime, and especially of victims of terrorism, is also important. but in any process, as in the one we are involved in, we must not stop looking ahead. i understand, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that what is not working must be changed. the current method of decision-making needs to be changed urgently, with cases of overlapping initiatives or delays as a result of unanimity rules or even flagrant delays in the transposition of community rules into member states' legislation. we must also strengthen and build on the achievements already made. i would therefore like to stress the proposal i made in the annual debate on the report on the area of security, freedom and justice, namely to develop a tampere ii. finally, i believe that the hope expressed in the entire chapter on the regulation of this new area must be enshrined in the new european constitution, that is to say, we must adapt the legal instruments to the reality of the dangers which threaten the freedom and security of citizens today. i have nothing but praise to say to your presidency and to the commissioner for their invaluable contribution to the defence of the values and rights of a society which, like the european, wishes to feel itself increasingly free in a new and enlarged area where security and justice are also the safeguards of that same freedom.
(es) mr president, commissioner vitorino, i agree with you that the european citizens want more europe and i think that, looking ahead, the communication on the values of freedom and security which the commission is to present to this parliament would have to take account of two significant aspects. it is true that we need greater security - as you have said - to guarantee freedom, but that guarantee must not be pursued by the current american government, which equates security with a reduction of freedom. if we want more europe, we must guarantee democratic freedoms more strongly and not believe that we can guarantee this security only by reducing freedoms. i would like to say that to combat terrorism, we need intelligence at european level and coordination of police services at european level too, which must be strengthened. on the other hand, we have spoken of freedoms, and the european parliament is the highest point of reference for the greatest concentration of democracy in the world, but i think it is clear that the freedoms of peoples, regions and nationalities within the european union must also be guaranteed. and the european union must very clearly denounce the massacres being committed against the chechen and kurdish people and must guarantee the freedoms of the stateless peoples. the peoples and regions must be guaranteed their language, culture and identity. in this europe of ours, in some of the states of the union - in our state in particular - in the interests of an effective fight against terrorism, initiatives have been taken which are not entirely positive, and which have allowed the closure of democratic newspapers. i, as a valencian and as a representative of a people who are part of the european union, believe that this europe of security and freedom must have very clear national freedoms of the peoples and regions that make up the european union.
commission. mr president, i will be very brief. firstly, on a personal level, i would like to thank those members of parliament who addressed kind words to me. it has been a privilege for me to be the first commissioner for justice and home affairs. it has been a very rewarding experience to cooperate so closely and so fruitfully with this parliament, and especially with the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. this is not just a question of faith. it is a question of deep belief that the area of freedom, security and justice will, in the years to come, be in the driving seat of the european integration process. i am sure that members of parliament will go back to their electorates in june and feel proud of the work they have done in this area over the last five years. finally, mr president, due to the fact that you personally have chaired most of the meetings i have attended in this parliament, i feel privileged to that you have been my private chairman! thank you so much. (laughter)
- the cordial atmosphere in this house is obvious to all. i can also confirm that parliament has always had excellent cooperation with commissioner vitorino, and i share the greetings that have been received from all sides. i would like to say very briefly that it has been a pleasure and a great honour to preside over this session of the european parliament, which has been attended by representatives of the citizens of 25 countries. this meeting is closed. the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday 5 may, from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. (the sitting was closed at 8.30 p.m.) the agenda for the next meeting: see minutes.
president of the commission. we must be very clear, because we often confuse what is a tension, a problem that all european citizens feel, that all institutions, starting with the institutions of their own countries, can have towards the european institutions. i am aware that we have an obligation to establish closer relations with our citizens, to be transparent, to make ourselves understood, but when we analyse situations in depth, we see that very often the attitude of the citizen towards the politics of his own country is harsher, more closed, more negative than the attitude towards the european union. we often confuse a crisis in modern democracy with a specific crisis in relations with the european institutions. in this sense, it is clear that we have exaggerated and are exaggerating the aspect of euroscepticism and the position of citizens towards europe. we must work to improve the situation, but we must not confuse a crisis of transition, a crisis of growth of democratic systems with a specific crisis of our institutions.
president of the commission. yes, because i think it is not only wrong but also useless, absolutely useless. history has shown us that the same fears existed about spain, portugal, ireland, and let us see how integration into the union went: it stopped the emigration, and even started a flow of returnees. we have no problems specific to these countries. the big problems of immigration come to us from countries in africa, in asia, from the very poor world around us. that's the big problem. not only that, there is also a profound contradiction: on the one hand, the borders are being closed, and on the other hand, the courtship of the high-level workforce in these countries is beginning. so we are using a double standard. i repeat to you, your honour: i am absolutely against these measures, not only because they are wrong but also because they are useless. i would like to take this opportunity, however, to emphasize how the first contact with these commissioners confirmed what you said: we have ten high-class commissioners, and that is a most comforting fact. in fact, we shall have a situation where, in the next commission, these will be the senior commissioners while most of the commissioners from the old member states will be junior commissioners. so the new countries will teach the old countries. this is europe!
commission. mr president, i wish to express gratitude to both mrs van lancker and mrs maes for raising the issue of gender policy and equality practice in the commission. this provides me with an opportunity to report that, in the lifetime of this commission, recruitment has reached a level of 50-50 between men and women for the first time in history. maybe the citizens of europe will show similar assiduousness and wisdom in ensuring that this parliament becomes 50-50 or maybe parliament itself would want to take the initiative and include in its policies the improvement of gender mix in the appointment of its senior management. i can inform the house meanwhile that, in its current lifetime, the commission will hit its target of ensuring that 20% of its middle and senior managers are women. that has been done entirely on the basis of merit, but also by the deliberate fostering and encouragement of women to seek and obtain posts for which they are very well qualified. on wider policy issues, i am certain that the inheritance that the prodi commission would want to leave will bear a very strong mark of the priorities cherished by the president himself. in developing all other policies, i am absolutely certain that the european commission will continue to seek to give prominence to the critical question of encouraging and supporting women as the majority gender in the population of the world as, indeed, in our continent and union.
(es) mr president, thank you for giving the floor to this very brief member. i took office on april 19 and i'll leave on july 19, with a two-month break. i have been a member for only one month, but this month i entered with a parliament of 623 members and 15 countries and i am leaving with a parliament of over 700 members and 25 countries. what a change i have brought to these institutions! but for the last eight years, i have also been working in relation to institutions and especially in the world of communication. i have had contact with several of the commissioners, first with commissioner marcelino oreja, then with mrs viviane reding and most recently with commissioner vitorino. and it is communication that i want to talk about here and that is the subject of my question to president prodi. communication is very important and i believe that the european institutions must have a genuine communication policy. not of propaganda, but of communication. i would like to ask president prodi whether he thinks that the last step he took, taking the communication from the committee on culture and taking it directly to the presidency, was the most appropriate and whether he does not think that now, with a much larger college of commissioners, it is appropriate for the communication policy - always in accordance with the guidelines set out by the european parliament - to be directed by the commission in a more direct manner, in order to form a genuine european spirit.
president of the commission. the first of the two questions seems to me to have been answered previously. the commission is keen to shorten as much as possible these transitional periods which have been adopted by many countries; in fact, it would have been much better for the commission not to adopt them. as for ukraine, i agree with you. we're not turning our backs on this country. the policy of the 'ring of friends', the policy of sharing everything with our neighbours except the institutions, was conceived with a strong reference to ukraine, with which we have established extremely close relations in recent years. i can assure you, mr president, that the commission will be close to poland in all the interregional cooperation initiatives that can be imagined in relation to ukraine, precisely because we believe that the bond between ukraine and the union is a close one, not only economically but also culturally, and in the sentimental roots that bind us to this country.
mr president, i wish to begin by wishing the new commissioners well and i hope they will do their best in the difficult tasks facing them in the coming months. however, i propose that one of them takes on a new task that concerns the stateless nation issue inside the european union. i hope and expect that a newcomer in the commission will deal with that matter. mr prodi could choose a commissioner now or just think it over.
(es) mr president, you know, as does the whole house, that the socialist group did not vote for you. but today the socialist group has unanimously applauded his management and his speech. let me make a personal note: welcome to the club of former presidents of the european parliament! it's one of the most exclusive in the world. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i warmly greet all the members and especially the other candidates. i belong to the generation of spaniards who, with europe on the horizon, led the transition to democracy, and very young we assumed important political responsibilities. councillor and trade union delegate, member of parliament for 18 years, 5 years as chairman of the european affairs committee and 12 years as minister or secretary of state, until candidate for the presidency of the government. i have also been a member of the convention, and for 10 years in a row i have represented my country in various council configurations. i lost battles there that were later won in parliament, from a view closer to the citizens. i can say that i am well aware of the way in which the community institutions operate, but europe is more than a political experience for me, it is a vital project. i am as much european as spanish and "soc català", but i am not from the old europe or the new europe. i am simply a european who rejects denominations designed to perpetuate our division. we have all been new to the union at one time, and from vilnius to lisbon, or from edinburgh to athens, we are all the same europe. the reunification has ended the sad legacy of hitler and stalin, but we have a long way to go to make it a reality. it will test our solidarity and demand respect for the most diverse opinions. as president of the european parliament, i will ensure that it functions properly in a more complex linguistic context. ladies and gentlemen, we must remove any shadow areas which discredit this parliament. we need the statute so that members from all countries can perform their duties under the same conditions of transparency, dignity and efficiency. i shall therefore begin with a demand for our relationship with the council. ladies and gentlemen, in the years to come this parliament will be at the crossroads of history. we've come to it on the path of success. the secular enemies of yesterday are today the most cooperative neighbours in the world, but today the european project is facing a triple problem of size, effectiveness and legitimacy, to which the constitution - whose drafting i helped to produce - provides the best answer we have. without it we would be, and for a long time, just one big market. and if europe were to abandon its political ambition, the world would suffer the destructive clash of materialism on the one hand and fundamentalism on the other. i will therefore call on all members of parliament to the great task of ratifying the constitution. that will be a great moment for this parliament: to speak to the europeans about europe, to convince them that ours is a living, soulful, albeit inevitably complex project, which affects the problems that concern them most, such as employment and security, terrorism and migration - problems which would have no solution without european integration. we must project this institution onto the citizens we represent, making our message understandable. in a europe with 9% unemployment and 50 million poor people, we must make clear the importance of community policies, the lisbon strategy and the environmental dimension of gothenburg for cohesion and competitiveness, which we do not consider to be antagonistic but complementary. ladies and gentlemen, we all want a close and kind president of parliament, but his role is not that of a head of government who implements a partisan political programme. the president must have strong support and play a strategic driving role for the institution he represents. i'm well aware of that. if elected, i will represent the diversity of parliament and its role firmly before the other community institutions. i would like to end with a message of optimism: europe is a long-term project that is making its way by walking. the crises ahead will not be more severe than those we have already overcome. we must and can mobilise the peoples of europe to write a new page in our history in peace and for that reason, i ask you to vote for my candidacy for the presidency of the european parliament. thank you very much. (laughter)
ladies and gentlemen, my first words as president of the european parliament must be one of gratitude, of commitment and of prospects for the future, but above all of gratitude. firstly, to the elderly president, mr berlinguer, for the way he has conducted our first parliamentary session of the legislature, ... (applause)... and secondly, to the candidates who have offered their capacity and their willingness to serve europe from the presidency of this parliament. i am sure that i can develop a loyal and positive partnership with all of them, drawing on the great political experience of mr wurtz and mr gueremek in this parliament in the events which have shaped our europe. i must express my respect and willingness to cooperate with those who, for one reason or another, did not vote for me, and my gratitude to all those who have given me their confidence, starting with the european socialist group which has proposed my candidacy. the majority i have received gives stability to this institution and, after the debate and the democratic decision reached, i now feel invested with all the legitimacy necessary to direct the work of this parliament, to the effectiveness of which i call on all of you from now on. i want to pay tribute to our former president, pat cox, for the way he has carried out his duties over the last 30 months. (prolonged applause) you have had a brilliant presidency, one which has been respectful of all the groups and all the members, very active in the process of european reunification and constantly attentive to the political visibility of this parliament. the very existence of the convention and the impetus given to its work by parliament is due, to a large extent, to the will displayed by pat cox to take the union out of its intergovernmental drift and to make parliament the representative of the european citizens, as it is now expressly recognized in the draft constitution. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the european parliament from all the countries who represented our parliament in the work of the convention. i know from my own experience how important their contribution was and, in order not to mention them all, i will refer in particular to the important role played by our representatives in the praesidium, mr klaus hänsch and mr íñigo méndez from vigo, and also by mr elmar brok, who followed the intergovernmental conference. (applause) and finally, from the presidency of this parliament, i would like to greet very specially the members representing the ten new member states, hoping that soon the romanians and bulgarians will join us and thus put an end, as milan kundera said, to the kidnapping of half the west. and, quoting this great european writer, let me remind you that in the film version of "the unbearable lightness of being", the roofs and domes we think of as those of prague are in fact those of lyon, a good proof of the common identity of the two halves of a space that has inherited the same culture. so, in these moments of excitement for me, i feel that democracy is not just a system of political organization around some institutions elected by the citizens. it is based - and especially ours, which is multinational and therefore more complex - on an idea of man which predates systems of government. i am aware of the immense responsibility which i have to shoulder at this moment, when the passion for democracy and the passion for europe are faced with the same challenge, and i would like to leave for the next part-session, after the summer, the presentation of my strategic vision for this legislature. i think that this is better for two reasons: firstly, because we must have the time and opportunity to exchange views and to work out this strategic vision together with the vice-presidents, when they are elected, and with the leaders of the political groups. we all have to contribute to a vision not just of the president, but of the house as a whole. and secondly, because the president of the council is here today and in a few hours we will hear from the candidate proposed by the council to be president of the commission, mr barroso, who will be put to the vote in parliament, and i think we need a better media window of opportunity than these eventful days. as i said in my speech, it is my political responsibility to do everything i can to ensure that the european parliament accompanies the process of ratification of the constitutional treaty, especially in countries which are going to do so by referendum. we are all aware that, apart from this great subject, our agenda is already full of issues that we have to deal with: the new commission, the opening of working relations with it and with the council, the examination of the future financial perspectives of the union, the analysis of the situation of the stability and growth pact after the recent ruling of the court of justice, future enlargements, the implementation of the new legislative powers of this parliament and the continuation of the work undertaken by pat cox in collaboration with the national parliaments and the euro-mediterranean assembly. on the other hand, many international issues will attract our attention. the world will be knocking at the door of europe and especially at the door of this parliament. perhaps the most urgent issues are those relating to the dramatic situation in the middle east. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that i will put all my will and all my ability, all my reason and all my passion, into fulfilling the high institutional and strategic role you have entrusted to me. my last thanks go to all the workers of this institution without whose efforts we could not do our job. thank you all so much. (laughter)
mr watson, rest assured that the presidency will ensure that all groups can exercise their full rights.
mr. gollnisch, you can be sure i will. election of vice-presidents - deadline for the submission of nominations: see minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament is hereby held, as stated in the agenda. i have received the following nominations: mr luigi cocilovo, mr antónio costa, mr ingo friedrich, mrs silvia-yvonne kaufmann, mr edward mcmillan-scott, mr mario mauro, mr pierre moscovici, mr gérard onesta, mr janusz onyszkiewicz, mr miroslav ouzký, mrs dagmar roth­behrendt, mr jacek emil saryusz­wolski, mr antonios vidal­quadras roca. i am pleased to inform you that the commission has decided to accept the nominations of mr andriessen, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, mr, martin, and others, and that the commission is prepared to submit to the council. the candidates have informed me that they accept their candidacy and, since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of posts to be filled, i propose that the election be by acclamation, in accordance with article 12 (1) of the rules of procedure. (applause) i therefore proclaim the candidates i have just named as vice-presidents-elect of the european parliament and congratulate them on their election. we now move on to establish the order of precedence of the vice-presidents.
your honor, there is no minimum number of boxes to check.
your honor, i appreciate your suggestion, but no one has asked to speak on the matter. i shall pass on your views to the political groups for consideration. but now we have started the vote and it is too late to take up your request. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the sitting will be closed at 16.54 p.m.
thank you very much, mr. congressman. we will study your warning and take appropriate action in your case.
the joint debate on the european council report and the commission statement - european councils of 17, 18 and 29 june 2004 - and the council statement - irish presidency semester of activity is now under way.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, my first words must be to contradict the previous speaker. the irish presidency has been a great political, not a technical, presidency, and it has been under difficult conditions, during which the massacre of 11 march in madrid took place. the first steps you have taken, such as the appointment of the coordinator for counter-terrorism, are in the right direction to fight this scourge of terrorism, which affects our public freedoms. mr president-in-office of the council, you have reached agreement on the european constitution. this parliament will be voting on this text in the coming weeks and so - everyone knows my position on the subject - i do not want to prejudge anything on this, but i congratulate you because it was not easy to reach an agreement and, in the end, that agreement and that constitution which europe needs are now on the table. i also want to congratulate you, mr president, on the proposal to nominate mr durão barroso as candidate for the presidency of the commission, because it was not easy to reach an agreement either. we have a great candidate and, above all, i think we must make a political effort to put the commission where it belongs: at the centre of the community method and of the life of the european union. i hope that this important vote in favour of the candidate proposed by the european council will also be a step in the right direction towards rebuilding the very important relations between the commission and the european parliament. but, mr taoiseach, i think the most important thing about your presidency has been enlargement. when we celebrated the anniversaries of monnet and spinelli here a few weeks ago, my group had the honour of representing you in that debate. i thought that if monnet and spinelli were here, sitting in these seats, they would think that the enlargement which has been achieved under the irish presidency, 'that sewing together the two europes', as geremek put it, is the most important thing we have done in recent years, and that will be in their memory forever. we have talked a lot about large countries and small countries here; i think that is a pernicious distinction, which has never existed in european history. why is a country big or small? by its population, its territory, its gdp? no, a country is big or small when its leaders, its people and its citizens have ambition and vision. you, mr taoiseach, and ireland, have been great in europe during this presidency.
council. mr president, i will be brief, but i wish to thank members for their constructive and positive comments. there were some comments on the shortcomings of our presidency, and i shall take these in the spirit in which they were made. i want to thank mr poettering, mr hänsch, mr duff and many others who welcomed the agreement on the european constitution. the agreement on the constitution was historic: agreement would not have been possible without all the participants working together to achieve it. the important thing is that the union has shown that win-win solutions are possible if we work towards compromises, as many people have stated. it is impossible for people to set down what they alone want. via compromise, this unique system can create positive outcomes that benefit everybody. all of you who have just been engaged in the election campaigns and earned the privilege of being in this parliament know how important the european union is for the prosperity and well-being of europeans. at the same time, you, more than most, know the difficulty of making european union agenda heard above the clamour of what some people often mistakenly consider to be more pressing bread-and-butter issues. i say 'mistakenly' because the european union is about vision and a vast array of practical issues of great importance. many members, from different countries and different perspectives, have mentioned those issues today. we must explain to people what is in the constitution. it will be important to provide a space for informed debate in countries that will and will not be holding a referendum. the period between now and the entry into force of the treaty will give us the opportunity to describe and explain what the union does and does not do. we can articulate the values and objectives that underpin the union. although we should not underestimate our task, we should not underestimate the text of the european constitution itself. a clause that states that the union's values are respect for human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights is one that can be clearly understood by all our people and should be sold to them on the basis of those values. when the constitution states that the union's aim is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples, this too will resonate with everybody. at the same time, however, there will be genuine concerns and many opposing views will be raised. these concerns must be heard and the issues must be addressed in a measured and reasonable way. a fear without foundation is still a fear, and all fears must be addressed, as i have discovered over the last six months. those of us who support the european union and the constitution whose values it embodies must remain passionate advocates of it. at the same time it is important that those who support and those who oppose the new european constitution approach the debate with moderation, reason and accuracy. i just wish to touch on a few of the issues mr poettering raised. he and some others mentioned the issue of christianity. the preamble of the text acknowledges europe's religious inheritance. we would have preferred to see an explicit reference to its christian heritage, but it was not simple to achieve a consensus on a suitable wording. however, an important new article recognises the special contribution of churches and, for the first time, provides for open and regular discussion with them. this has been widely welcomed by church and faith organisations. so although there is no explicit reference in the preamble ­ which i personally would have liked ­ it was important to include that new clause. a number of members mentioned the nomination process, which i know is very important to mrs frassoni. back in the convention, the irish government proposed a radical way of nominating future presidents of the commission. our vision was to involve this parliament and the parliaments of all the member states in the process of electing the new commission president. i would ask the new members of parliament to look at our proposal. we received no support when we advocated it, so i hate to hear the people who did not support us now criticising us, but that's politics! members should consider the proposal for the next time around: it may be complicated, but it is a good idea. remarkable work was done in the convention on the european social dimension. mr katiforis led the working group on social europe. it is an area of particular concern to me personally and to the irish presidency because we value the social solidarity that is the central feature of the european project in ireland. we are a country that fully involves employers and trade unions ­ a 'voluntary pillar' ­ in all legislative decisions. we have been doing that for 17 years. i have to remind my good friend and colleague mrs doyle of that ­ the point has obviously passed her by over the 17 years. we value the concept, and president prodi is quite right: we have adopted a positive, progressive aspect of the constitutional treaty. this is the european people's constitution. we must remind our citizens of that fact. i agree with mrs doyle's point on small business: we have to continue to try to do that for small business. mr czarnecki spoke of the issue of freedom of movement. from day one we in ireland have opened our doors to all parts of europe and we did not distinguish between people from old and new member states. we are proud that we have done that. mr goebbels and a number of other members underlined the importance of the lisbon agenda and regretted that more of the goals involved were not achieved. i am the first to acknowledge that the lisbon agenda is work in progress. we have to intensify efforts and improve our delivery if we are to reach the goals we have set ourselves for 2010. that is why we set up such a thorough process in the mid-term review. we have set out what we would like to do in the future, but we have also said what we have done. as regards practical delivery over the last six months, and to give one concrete example as to what i was asked to do, people should just look at the details set out in a chapter of a report we drafted dealing with working together for growth and employment. i have been asked to look at the financial services area, which was most effectively steered forward under the leadership of minister mccreevy. by securing an agreement on the financial services instruments, the market directives and the transparency directive, minister mccreevy and his team - with excellent cooperation from parliament - completed this services action plan. this is a critical area for the future growth of the european economy and one i can cite as a practical example of what is being delivered on the lisbon agenda. indeed, i have underlined the importance i attach to the lisbon agenda in nominating minister mccreevy as commissioner. i am sure his experience will help there in the future, because the lisbon agenda is all about delivering growth and jobs for europe, and the minister knows about delivering those two things. i would invite you to look at ireland's record on these issues, which is would be of some value. mr de rossa is correct that we should discuss domestic issues at home, and i will be very glad to do that with him at any time. our finance minister has liberated irish workers from the punitive tax rates established when the administration with which mr de rossa was associated was in power. i always find it interesting when a socialist mentions a 'right-wing person': definitions are always interesting. mr de rossa says he is left-wing and socialist and he gave under two euros to old people. mr mccreevy is right­wing and he gives 10 euros every year to old people. work out the definitions for yourselves: they are quite interesting. i have only been in politics for 27 years: i need to be around a while longer before i understand the definitions of right and left, which i believe are rather nonsensical in any case. it is a true honour to be here reporting to the house. i believe that 2004 will be seen as a highly significant year for the european union. we enlarged to 25 member states. we have agreed a constitution. we have renewed our commitment to achieving the lisbon agenda goals. we have reinforced our relationship with our global partners. while the work of the irish presidency is done, the work of the union obviously continues. i wish mr balkenende and the dutch presidency every success. i also wish president prodi every success for the remainder of his term of office and hopefully the same will apply ­ with the house's support ­ to mr durão barroso in the future. i wish you well too, mr president. on this first working day, i wish everybody here happiness and success in their political work in the european parliament. go raibh míle míle maith agaibh. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president, the taoiseach ahern has already answered all the questions. i shall be speaking in a few minutes to comment on the start of the dutch presidency, so i really just want to thank the irish prime minister and all the members of parliament. i would just like to take up a point made by mr goebbels, who asked us to look at the stability pact and its reforms. i can say that, encouraged by the judgment, the commission has already started work and that on 3 september we will bring the fruits of our reflection so that a vigorous debate on the matter can begin. the other part of the debate was very united, with few voices opposed to the constitution, and the sense of a europe becoming a civil power, as mr sbarbati said, is shared and widespread in this parliament. thank you for your attention. finally, i should just like to say to mr poettering that it may be true that being in the centre of the picture is important, but it may also be true that being on one side and on the other, embracing the states of the union, can have an even stronger political significance. (applause) i would like to thank
the joint debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
the next item is the council statement on the programme of work of the dutch presidency.
thank you very much. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter. otherwise, many members who have come to the vote would see their intention frustrated. (applause) but before we interrupt the debate, let us give the floor to the president-in-office of the council, so that he can respond to the remarks made so far.
president of the council. the point is, mr president, that i shall first listen carefully to the voices coming from the european parliament. i think it would be best if you would vote first and then i would respond after all the speakers have spoken. that means that i will in principle take the answer from the presidency of the european council to heart. (applause from the left)
the debate is closed.
thank you very much, congresswoman. yesterday you asked for the quaestors to have a one-minute speech to make themselves known in a way that is more than just physical, but the political groups have not considered it appropriate to do so. however, i think that there is no objection to the fact that, as i am naming the candidates, they should stand up so that you can at least see them. i don't know if that's going to help your choice much, but at least you won't be completely unknown to them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the elections. at least now we know each other physically. we're still waiting for the electronic system to load. it's a hard system to load, apparently. ladies and gentlemen, technology has rebelled against us. the system is refusing to load and i can't give you any prediction as to how long it might take. i think the sensible thing to do, under the circumstances, is not to wait any longer. i therefore feel obliged to call for the vote to be taken at 3 p.m. and to resume our debate.
mr nassauer, i feel obliged to give you the floor so as not to waste any more time, but i would ask you to remain silent. i would ask the president-in-office of the council to apologise for this technical incident and i thank him for remaining present in our debate.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, we agree with the dutch presidency's priority document when it says that the new financial perspectives are complex negotiations which must be started in time to be completed before the start of the 2007 budget cycle. there's no hurry it could even be said that it is a little risky to make expenditure forecasts for almost ten years ahead; forecasts which, moreover - we know this in this house - become completely rigid rules. but it must be started now. and when we talk about negotiations, mr president-in-office of the council, we are talking about negotiations with parliament. that is why i am glad that you have said before that you are with parliament and not just with national delegations in the council. if you want to lay the foundations for the proper conduct of these negotiations, you must remember that throughout the whole process of discussing the new financial perspectives, including the moment of their adoption, the european constitution will not be in force. so this parliament will not be content with saying yes or no to what the council has discussed. without going into detail, because time does not permit it, i would like to say that for the socialist group the priorities in these new financial perspectives are, without wishing to be exhaustive, cohesion between the various regions, which is becoming even more important with the recent enlargement, and the income disparities that it brings with it; job creation and, finally, development aid to third countries, the current category 4, which has been the lowest in growth since 1999, when the current financial perspectives began, despite the many new obligations.
president of the council. president. - mr prodi, i am not going to give you a very long answer. you have rightly pointed out that much has been achieved in recent years. the euro, enlargement, the new constitutional treaty and the commission has also played an important role in these. i thank you very much for that and i look forward to a good cooperation until the new commission is in place. you have received appreciation, for example from mr poettering, who also proposes to give you an upgrade in terms of the family portrait of the european council - the same applies, incidentally, to the president of the european parliament - and i think it would be good to look at this again. then i would like to thank the speakers for their input. i thank you for your support for the dutch presidency, but also for your critical remarks. i said in my first term that criticism is not bad at all, that is part of democracy. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to take action, but i am saying that it is not prepared to take action. then mr watson told us that it was a short presidency - three and a half months in fact - also because of the holidays. that means that we must work effectively during our presidency and it also means, of course, that we are happy to cooperate with you for that reason, for example on the progress of the legislative process and also, on behalf of the minister for european affairs, i would like to appeal to you to cooperate as much as possible in this legislative process. then, chairman, you said i have had 26 speakers, which would amount to about 23 seconds per speaker, and i think it would be better to combine the topics a little bit, and i wanted to do that on the basis of three topics which you also raised. i believe that there are three important issues for the europe of the future. the first is credibility and fair play, the second is forward-looking and the third is looking to the citizens of europe. first, mr. chairman, a word on the subject of credibility and fair play: let us begin with the discussions on the copenhagen criteria. if criteria are laid down, they must be taken seriously. that is true of a country like romania. i've spoken to prime minister nastase about this, they're on the move and they'll have to change their legislation and other things. the same credibility and fair play will have to be reflected in the debate on turkey. i've been listening to you. there are different views in the european parliament, but at this point i would like to say: we have to look at the consistency of decision-making and procedures. the term "pacta sunt servanda" has been used here and it is a fair process in which we are strict in the criteria but at the same time the rules of the game do not change during the game. and that means that we will listen with interest to the conclusions of the european commission when the report on turkey is published in early october, and that will also be the prelude to the decision-making in december. the dutch presidency is working on a decision which will be able to be said after a few years: it was a viable decision and it was a right decision. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the i would like to say a word about the stability pact. that too has been discussed by many of you. the stability pact is not just a matter of a few criteria as far as the presidency is concerned, it is a matter of the objectives pursued by it, and i have heard, for example, that there was talk of the future sound financing of pensions; it is important to reconsider the objectives of the pact, and partly for this reason a declaration on the stability pact was annexed to the recently concluded constitutional treaty, which reaffirms that it is a 'rule-based system' and that we must take these criteria seriously. of course the debates will continue; the commission is working on this and we will also be discussing it in detail in the ecofin group and will no doubt continue the debate with you on this subject. it is important, however, that we take the rules seriously, particularly with a view to the credibility of europe. the third point, mr president, concerns the ratification of the european constitutional treaty. many of you have spoken about the referendums to be held, the debates that will take place. let me first address what mr blokland has said. he says: isn't there too much progress on the new constitution? i think we cannot move forward unless decisions are taken which have a legal basis in the constitution. and that means you can't get ahead of it, out of respect for the ratification process. on the other hand, we also see that 25 governments have come together to support the constitution and the constitution will be signed in rome on 29 october. and that too is a political fact; we will have to take into account the constitutional ambitions in our planning. that is the case, for example, with the debate on openness - mrs buitenweg has spoken about it. of course, things will be settled when there is a new treaty, but we can look at what we could do - also in anticipation of that. then there was the question of whether or not to work on a referendum in one day. and i understand that desire. this point has also been raised regularly by austria. but i must point out that the constitutional traditions are different. the position of a referendum is not the same in every member state. and for that reason too, i think it will not be possible to organise everything in one day, simply on the basis of the different constitutional traditions. on the other hand, it is important that we have a view to harmonization, to a good debate, and in that context too we will discuss rasep. mr president, on the question of credibility and fair play, i should also like to say a word about the financial perspective. we all know that this is a sensitive subject with great differences of opinion. a letter was pointed out about the 1%. i am not here as the dutch prime minister, i am here as the president of the european council, who is responsible for a fair process in which the various arguments will be exchanged. a process that should be characterised by openness and transparency. a process which will also have to be characterized by good contacts with your parliament. i know that you appreciate the fact that parliament will be closely involved and that in the conciliation process, on 16 july, arrangements were made for contacts between the presidency and the european parliament. i think it is necessary to have a fair debate on the question of what is to come and what are the priorities, how we should do things differently in europe, and i think we should also take into account the remark from flanders that 'greed threatens wisdom'; i listened to you very carefully, but on the other hand we must also always look again at how we spend resources in the best possible way, how we are efficient and how we can achieve more, sometimes with the same money. all these elements should be given their place in a fair and open debate. president. - i have received a request for an early vote to wind up the debate. i have tasted your contribution so clearly that you say 'let us look to the europe of the 21st century, let us look to the future'. many speakers have spoken of the importance of the european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is worth repeating that the lisbon process will have to be characterised by three elements: it is about growth, about strengthening technology, knowledge, innovation. secondly, it must be social cohesion, social cohesion, as mr wurtz, mr poettering, mr schulz and others have said. and i have also had a debate with mr van den berg, my esteemed compatriot, who made some critical remarks. and after mr schulz had already said that we should look at social cohesion, did you say again 'what about that agenda'? i would remind you of the report by mr kok, the first report by the employment task force, the report 'jobs, jobs, jobs'. i think that report makes a good link between the dynamics in europe and a social dimension, and i also had a meeting this week with the representatives of the european trade union movement in preparation for the debate here and in preparation for our work, and i also asked them, you can find yourself in that report kok-1, the report of the employment task force, and i received a positive response from the secretary-general of the european trade union movement to the content of that report, and it seems to me that we could get quite a lot done with the content of that report. and the third block is sustainability. in my first contribution i stressed the importance of taking care of the environment, which is also part of the lisbon agenda. and when we talk about strengthening the economy, mr van den berg, that includes the right to reduce administrative burdens. we all know that sometimes it is difficult to innovate and to succeed as a company. and we might as well look at those administrative burdens. i look forward to a good debate with you on this very important subject, because we can talk about a treaty, we can talk about the citizen, but that citizen is benefiting from more jobs coming to europe, from opportunities for our children and grandchildren that europe is also strongly in 30, 40 years, also in a global context. indeed, it is a combination of growth, social cohesion and sustainability. the second point, as regards europe's future orientation, concerns the jha agenda, the respect for the rule of law in europe, our action on security, the fight against terrorism. now mr schulz has rightly said 'keep the institutions in order'. and in that context you specifically referred to the director of europol. last monday it was decided to reopen the procedure and all the member states have given their commitment that, precisely because of the arguments you have mentioned, a new director will be appointed during the dutch presidency. you're right, if you work in security, institutions must be in order. (applause) and, mr president, of course, when we talk about the jha agenda, there will have to be a follow-up to the tampere process. we will have to ensure that the debate on asylum and migration, for example, can be brought forward. now there has been talk of whether there should be no more qmv, majority decision-making, and i think it is good to say again that the general aim is of course one of qmv. but we are dependent on the member states and when more space is created, that will also become easier. i listened carefully to you, including mrs buitenweg, who is critical of a directive on asylum. we have heard your position and you have made it very clear here. the point at issue is that the directive, which requires that asylum seekers have a right to an effective legal remedy and whether an appeal should have a standard suspensive effect, is left to the member states, as you know. and why is that, because the different legal systems differ greatly. that's why this formula was chosen. and if there is no standard suspensive effect on an appeal, the directive requires member states to determine when an asylum seeker can apply for suspensive effect. and as to whether it is possible to deport asylum seekers first and then to appeal, the following: the directive states that all rules must be in accordance with international law, including the european convention on human rights. the standards set out in this and in the case law of the court will therefore have to be respected. it is then worth pointing out another point, the rule of law, and mr schulz has referred to guantanamo bay in that context. this subject has your interest and rightly so. the european union has always expressed concern about the situation at guantanamo bay and has repeatedly and at various levels in its contacts with the united states that the treatment of prisoners should be in accordance with the standards of the geneva conventions and human rights. last week, official talks took place between the european union and the united states, in which the united states explained the setting up of so-called combatant status review tribunals in the wake of the recent decisions of the us supreme court. the eu representatives conveyed the concerns that remain on the european side, including those concerning the creation of a new category of prisoners, the so-called enemy combatants. you're aware of that. the dutch presidency will continue to draw attention in its contacts with the united states to the concerns about the status and treatment of the prisoners at guantanamo bay. finally, mr president, i come to my last point, and you have made it quite clear that this is a people's europe. how does the citizen experience europe? what can europe do for the well-being, for the prosperity of its citizens? and then i taste two sounds. the one sound is: we see mistrust among the citizens, there is euroscepticism. is there sufficient public support, for example, for the implementation of the lisbon strategy? that was one signal, the critical margin. on the other hand, there is also talk - mr eurlings made that very clear - of an efficient union with a sense of purpose, and i should like to underline his words. if we want europe to mean something to the citizens, we must make progress in the areas of security, asylum, the economy, issues which must be tackled with vigour, and i believe that citizens' trust is earned when europe is a living force that can operate with authority and that contributes to solving the problems which concern the citizens, and that is what matters. and what struck me in mr poettering's words was that he said let us also look at the psychological significance, because we have a europe of 25 and there must be member states and people who can identify with the other europe, and it is good to bring up that psychological aspect too, because we are so used to talking about what i pay to europe, what i get from europe, what about the finances? but let us also be mindful of the question: what makes us european? what's the psychological side of the whole thing? what are the values that bind us together in europe? we often have far too little eye for it. i noticed in 2002, on the eve of enlargement, that there was a kind of enthusiasm about we had become one again and afterwards we were talking about iraq and difficult issues worldwide, but let us make sure that the european fire lives in people, that europe is not something abstract, something of bureaucrats in brussels and strasbourg or even of us. but that it is something that is in the hearts and minds of people, that i think will be the attitude when you talk about values in europe. we will take initiatives on that point. freedom, solidarity and respect. you are committed to the values community of the 21st century and i am very aware as president of the european council that we want progress in the fight against terrorism, a strong implementation of the lisbon strategy, the follow-up to tampere and all those other issues, that we can only succeed when there is good cooperation between your parliament, the european parliament, the european commission and the european council and that is why i am so pleased with the input you have given this morning and this afternoon, your comments of support but also your critical remarks. i have listened carefully to the critical remarks, which were very strong and we will take them into account in our presidency, and the debate we are having here is not because we are just politicians or because we are having a debate, we are doing all this in the interests of citizens, that is why we are doing it and that is what we are committed to. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. mr president, i would just like to say a word of thanks, also for avoiding the deaths of the honourable members from consumption. i thank prime minister balkenende for his statement, for his reply and, above all, for the cooperation with which the semester has started. we started working together and we're perfectly in agreement on the objectives. i would just like to make two recommendations. firstly, when we talk about the financial perspective we really have to take into account that the commission has made an incredible effort to put on the table the minimum resources needed to achieve the objectives that the member states have given us and to use these resources in the best possible way. secondly, the commission has paid great attention to the dialogue between cultures. in the past few years, we have been working hard at the commission and have succeeded in creating the foundation for the mediterranean and for dialogue between cultures, which will start work under the dutch presidency. i ask you to take this tool forward, to use it and to make it really the gymnasium of active dialogue that we need. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 3.10 p.m.)
we take note of your remarks and will endeavour to remedy any material problems which impede the proper functioning of this house.
that's what's going to be on the record.
the next item is the election of the quaestors, which could not take place before the noon break. i repeat the list of candidates: for the ppe-de group, mr james nicholson and mrs godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, for the pse group, mrs mia de vits and mrs genowefa grabowska, for the adle group, mrs anneli jäätteenmaki, and, presented by 46 members, mrs astrid lulling. since we still have more candidates than posts to fill, we must vote in accordance with the rules by secret ballot and we shall do so, in accordance with the rules applicable to the election of vice-presidents, by electronic procedure. (the president declared the quorum of the european parliament to be elected in successive votes: mr james nicholson, mrs genowefa grabowska, mrs de vits, mr quisthoudt-rowohl and mrs astrid lulling) decision on the numerical composition of the committees: see minutes.
the next item is the statement by the proposed president of the commission.
mr president, congratulations on your election. mr barroso, please give the catalans a chance to vote 'yes' to the european constitution. the catalan people have not been recognised by spain. our language is not official in the spanish state, and that state does not recognise our right to self­determination. we are european autonomists: we want the same degree of autonomy for the catalan countries as portugal has within europe. while we wait for our rights to be recognised, however, we would be able to vote in favour of the european constitution if the catalan language were to be officially recognised. if it is not, how can we vote in favour of a text that does not recognise the stateless nations - the catalan countries, in our case - nor gives official status to a language such as catalan, which is spoken by 10 million people? we would like to see a europe made up of all its real people, a europe which is equal as regards rights, including national rights for stateless nations, a europe which is fully democratic or, as we say in catalan: ...
i would point out to the house that the honourable member has availed himself of the right granted to him by rule 138 of the rules of procedure to speak in the official language of his choice. english is an official language and he has preferred to use it by interspersing catalan phrases which could not have been translated and understood by the rest of the house and therefore will not be recorded in the minutes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr durão barroso, in the long march of european construction, you appear before this house to ask for the opportunity to lead its next stage. you have chosen to open your speech with a very good quote from jean monnet, in which he speaks of the evocative character of the creation of this supranational democracy which we are all building together, and i salute your courage and your courage. i do not know whether you have received a poisoned present, but you have taken a step forward in a field of agramante which has remained in the council, after a few victims were recorded in a debate which took place behind closed doors. you've taken the step and you're here today. so i think that's an important step. and i must make a few comments on this - and i am addressing not only you but also the members of the epp-de coalition - because we are innovating politically and constitutionally. mr poettering has repeatedly claimed, by vetoing, the right of his political family, as the first minority - that coalition is a minority, but they are the first european minority - to propose a candidate. you guys did it. we're in another political phase. now, you have to win a majority in this parliament and this is the road that starts now for you. i have to tell you that we are carrying out an interesting exercise and, to put it in terms that we iberians understand, you are asking us for an opportunity today. we'll see if he deserves it and gets it. but let me express to you some of the reservations that we socialists have and that i have made public, and that i have spoken about with our common friends. firstly, you are the president of a social democratic party which has been in this house successively in the liberal group, first, and in the epp group afterwards. you have never knocked on the door of the socialist group. i'm not advocating a "copyright", but you'll understand that it creates a certain disorientation. but you have also made the slightest reference to the lisbon strategy which was adopted under the portuguese presidency in may 2000, when antonio guterres was president. you will agree with me, in view of what has happened in portugal and in view of what mr bolkenende has said this morning, that the big question for us is how to interpret the lisbon strategy. we want a highly competitive economy with technological development, but we also want it with the defence and adaptation of our social model and with cohesion. and we disagree on that, given what you have done in portugal. so i think that you are now appearing, asking for the opportunity, and the socialists will debate today whether we think it appropriate to give it, but in any case, the process is not closed today. you will remain a candidate until the new commission is proposed to us, until the hearings of all the commissioners have been held and until you present a programme to this house, with an investiture debate, in october. and there's the game. you may have a chance, but you have to be able to build a majority and in that majority the socialist group is absolutely essential.
madam president, mr durão barroso, i would first of all like to congratulate mr durão barroso on the content of his communication this afternoon and i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that he is the proposed candidate for president of the european commission. you said it very well. we are not in any given moment, we are not living in any given circumstance, you are not going to chair any commission in the coming years and there are at least three reasons for this unique situation. the first reason is enlargement - i do not know if we realise that this is the first time we are going to have a commission after enlargement. the second reason is that five years ago, when the previous commission took office, the terrible terrorist attacks of 11 september and 11 march in madrid had not yet occurred. and thirdly, because these events have been accompanied by an increase in abstention in the european elections. perhaps for these three reasons, in colloquial terms, we should make a stop along the way. but in politics there are no stops along the way and in the european union there can be no stops or stops. but this stop along the way must be replaced by a deeper reflection than ever before, which at the same time allows us to look higher than ever before when we are dealing with the future of the european union. this afternoon, i think there is a conclusion we can all agree on: we have all said that the european institutions must be strengthened and we have all, with particular emphasis, said that the commission must be strengthened. on that point we are all in agreement. the question is how we can make the commission stronger. you have also said it very well: it is not about having many powers in the commission, but about being able to lead, direct, order and set priorities. i am left with two of the keys you have pointed out this afternoon: firstly, that commissioners must above all be able to lead, direct and direct the work of the ministers of the nations which make up the european union; and secondly, that there will be no foreign policy for the european union unless there is first a sound internal policy capable of dealing with the common problems which all europeans have. so the question for tomorrow is: how do we strengthen the commission? by strengthening or punishing the president of the commission by voting? i have no doubt that the strengthening of the commission requires that the president of the commission has the first and broad support of the whole house and for this reason, when we vote tomorrow on the nomination of this candidate, i would ask that, above personal considerations and aside from ideological questions, we think about institutional stability.
president of the commission. mr president, in five minutes i will not be able to answer all the questions. i shall try to do so more systematically tomorrow, but i would like to leave my thoughts here on the issues which i consider to be the most difficult and, in a certain sense, the most important. at least with regard to those who have expressed reservations about my candidacy. the truth about iraq, first of all, is that this issue has divided us in europe, it has divided european countries, it has divided us within our countries, it has even divided the political families represented here. i think that in the portuguese case, in answer to mr antónio costa's question, we have somehow managed to overcome this division when, recently, in our parliament, we were able to pass, in essence, a resolution uniting efforts around the latest united nations resolution. i think it is not useful for europe, or for our european union project, that we are now going back and making hypothetical judgments or saying who was right. i think that the important thing now is to unite in europe and not just on the basis of the resolution adopted unanimously by the united nations security council because i think that all of us europeans have a fundamental interest in the stabilization of iraq, in seeing a truly independent iraq, an iraq at peace with itself and at peace in the region. if i am confirmed by this european parliament as president of the commission, that is exactly what i will do. but the question of iraq is also associated with other concerns of some members, namely the relationship between europe and the united states and also my conviction in a european security and defence policy. firstly, on the problem of our relations with the united states, i would like to say that i think we can be europeanists - and i am a europeanist - and defend a good transatlantic relationship. i think it is in our interest, in europe's interest, but i also think it is in the interest of the world, globally considered, to face the great challenges on a global scale, namely terrorism, threats to the environment, major epidemics and underdevelopment, which cannot be overcome by europe alone. europe alone is not enough. we need to bring our main partners along constructively, and among them are, of course, the united states of america. but now i would like to make it clear that i am european, portuguese and european with a lot of honor. if i am elected president of the european commission, i will defend the general interest of europe, the common european good, and i will not accept that europe is treated as a second-rate power, regardless of which power it is. i would like to see that there is no doubt about this. the third question concerns our conception of european security and defence. in this context, i would like to say that i stand today for what i stood for before i took up this position as a candidate for the presidency of the european commission. i understand that it is useful and i think that we need to build a european security and defence identity. i think it is important and that is why, as prime minister, i supported all the steps to strengthen this european unity and, moreover, i had the honour, as minister for foreign affairs, of signing some of the acts in which portugal was involved in building this same identity, namely our accession to eurofor or euromarfor, which were the first steps of my country towards actively participating in a european security and defence identity. the second question concerns the role of the commission, the european parliament and the european council. i would like to repeat on this point what i have already written and said before i took up this position. i have always defended the role of the commission as a supranational institution, as a truly community institution. the positions i took at the intergovernmental conference were to give the european commission the greatest independence and credibility. i did not know then, i did not even imagine that i would find myself in this position, but i believe, and i believed then and i still believe, that the community method is essential. more than ever, now with 25 countries and in the future with 27, 28 or more, if we enter into a purely intergovernmental logic - i will weigh the words but i will say it - it could be the end of the european union. if we follow a purely intergovernmental logic, it could be so. we can have a logic of groups, a logic of balkanization between groups in the european union, the strongest against the weakest, the richest against the poorest, the centre against the periphery, the largest against the smallest. the only solution is the community method as advocated by the founding fathers of the european union, jean monnet, robert schuman, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi, paul henri spaak, and so many others. that is why i said in my speech that we are not going to change the values, but we can change the attitude in the implementation of these values. the community method and the role of the commission are therefore essential, and in this sense i think the positive complicity i have mentioned in the relationship between the commission and the european parliament is important. a prominent mep, daniel cohn-bendit, argued that meps should punish the council and for that, the candidate for president of the european commission should be shot. i would like to say that if you want to punish the council, mr president, there are other ways of doing it that are much more practical and less painful than punishing myself. there are many other occasions in this parliament to do so. however, the commission can be your ally, it can be the european parliament's ally and i have already said that i will do everything to ensure that this is the case, with due regard for the powers of each institution. i have tried to show my respect for parliament here today, as i have done in the hearings with all the political groups. i have tried to do the same as i did in my country with regard to the assembly of the republic, our national parliament. i promise you loyal cooperation in accordance with the principles of transparency which have been mentioned here by several members, particularly from the liberal group, but not only from the liberal and democratic group. so i think that if i am elected we should make a dynamic coalition of those who are at the forefront of this european project. that is why i said that although my party is of course and with great honour part of a political family, i believe that the president of the commission should not be the president of a faction, but should seek consensus among all those who share essentially the same european project. i can see here in the different political families, from the socialists to the liberals and democrats, in the epp family and in other members, the same european conviction. that is why, in reply to some members of the european socialist party and also of the liberal group, i would like to say that my approach is neither dogmatic nor factional and i think i have shown that when i was the only head of government to support a socialist politician as a candidate for president of the commission, but i did so because i was convinced that he was a good candidate for president of the european commission. would you like better evidence of a non-dogmatic spirit and a non-sectarian spirit? if i am elected, i will work with the various political families, and of course with those who believe in this european project, and i will end by making the following request: on the social question, please do not make caricatures of my position. as prime minister i had to act on what i considered most urgent, but what is considered most urgent is not necessarily what is most important. in my scale of priorities, the social and cultural come before the economic. but i have had occasion to say that in order to achieve social justice objectives - which i believe are above others - we must act immediately from the economic and financial point of view. this is my vision for europe. that is why i consider that the lisbon agenda is not just the agenda for competitiveness. competitiveness, no doubt, but also social cohesion, sustainable development, including environmental protection, and a european policy of environmental leadership. that is why in the agenda i have proposed to you today, in general terms, a partnership for europe, i have spoken of three essential vectors: prosperity, solidarity - i stress solidarity - and security. solidarity between the different regions, in order to respond to the new members of our union, but also solidarity between the different groups and social classes, paying particular attention to the most disadvantaged. this is my vision. i think it's possible to reconcile these elements. i repeat, i am a reformist from the centre who wants to work loyally with this parliament, who believes that europe can be built with a lot of will and who needs your support to give authority and credibility to a commission, not to defend the commission's own ground and any institutional selfishness but because the commission is the body that represents the general interest of the european union and the european common good and therefore has this natural complicity with the european parliament, which is the voice of all european citizens. if i can earn your trust, that's the direction i'm committed to working towards. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. it will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. (the sitting was suspended at 6.10 p.m.)
the debate on the statement by the proposed president of the commission is now resumed, as ordered.
mr president, mr durão barroso, first of all, let me congratulate you on your appointment as the future president of the european commission, and i would also like to make a few comments on three points which i think are important. firstly, on the role of the commission and the appointment of its president, secondly, on the common foreign and security policy and, thirdly, on diversity, subsidiarity and shared sovereignty in the european union. firstly, the role of the commission and the appointment of its president. you have just been appointed by the heads of government, by the european council, and it is for this parliament, this house, to approve your appointment, which will eventually be ratified, together with that of the other members of the commission, by the governments of the member states. with the new constitutional treaty, which will come into force in these five years of your next mandate, and also that of this house, this question will change, and it will be the european council which, taking into account the result of the elections, will propose to parliament the candidate to be elected president of the commission, who will be elected by the european parliament. i think it is a step forward, although i still do not consider it a decisive step. i would like to ask you, mr barroso, whether you think that, with the new constitutional treaty, the commission will really become a real executive government of the union; whether you think that, when the citizens have to cast their vote in the elections to the european parliament, they will really feel that their vote is decisive and that with it they will be electing the president who will govern the union in the next term. we have had an experience which has been absolutely negative, because there has been a large abstention. i think it's because the citizens haven't felt that their vote was for this. second, you hosted the meeting in the azores that led to the invasion and the war in iraq. i would like to ask you whether, in your new role, in a similar situation you would allow members of the european union to take such a decision without first consulting the council, without there having been a joint position of all the member states of the european union. and thirdly, with regard to diversity, this constitutional treaty speaks of the competences of the european institutions and also of the state institutions. it speaks of exclusive powers of the union and of shared powers, but there is a real diversity within the union which has not been taken into account: the stateless nations and the constitutional regions, which have powers over which the central governments of the states cannot decide. what do you intend to do in your mandate to make the european union truly integrate its real, institutional and cultural diversity?
i would ask you to sit down and allow the sitting to continue as normal.
madam president, in his speech yesterday, the chairman of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe compared the european construction project to a pilotless plane. that reminded me of an anecdote about chess player bobby fischer, who has been in the news recently in the media for his recent arrest in japan. one day, the chess master wanted to teach the champion a lesson and, in one stroke, threw all the pieces off the chessboard and said, "now, with the empty board, design the big move". mr durão barroso, seeing the end before you begin and seeing what you do not see is a skill that, in politics, is not available to everyone. many in this parliament expect you to have a political vision of the project and to set the course for the integration project. there were things in your speech yesterday that i liked, such as when you spoke of a strong, political and credible commission which has to be based on the great wealth of resources that commission officials represent, which must be motivated and inspired. in my view, this project must be developed by emphasizing both its internal dimension - the internal market and economic and monetary union - in line with the lisbon process, and its external projection, so that the union weighs on the international scene in accordance with its economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight. mr durão barroso, the european commission is more than the honest broker, to which you referred in your speech yesterday, or the grand mediateur. and contrary to what has been said in this house this morning, the commission is not a hangar of stateless bureaucrats, but a key and fundamental institution in the european construction project, the political engine of the project and the disseminator of its progress. that is why, mr durão barroso, i find it very fortunate that you have said that the european commission must restore that positive complicity with this parliament and that harmonious tandem between parliament and the commission which is at the origin of so much progress in the project of european integration. that is why we want a strong commission, with a strong parliament which will democratically control it, which will invest it, which will legitimize the project of european integration, which will debate it, which will debate it, which will ratify it and which will rectify it. mr durão barroso, we hope that this time parliament will ratify the european council's proposal by a large majority - because you deserve it, and your record backs you up in your appointment as president of the european commission. (applause from the right)
president of the commission. i would like to thank all the questions that have been put to me and i will try to answer all of them, some of which i did answer yesterday. i would first like to address the greek members who were very active in the debate and, in showing my fair play, congratulate them on their victory in the european championship hosted by portugal. i want to tell you that organising a championship of that size is a big task and that is why i wish our greek friends the greatest success in organising the next olympic games. even to those who will not vote for me, i want to say that i will show the same fair play that i showed in relation to the victory of greece in the last championship. as regards the specific questions i have organized, the cluster responses, in this matter i am in favour of clusters. international issues: to answer questions from mr watson, mr de sarnes, mr schultz, mr ortuondo larrea and mr kristovskis, among others, on a strong europe in the world, i am in favour of europe maintaining its leadership on environmental issues, particularly on climate change issues with kyoto. i am in favour of europe maintaining its leadership in favour of open and fair markets in the doha negotiations and promoting a multilateral perspective on both political and trade issues. i am in favour of europe taking an active role in development policy, particularly in the fight against poverty in the world. africa, of course, is a priority. but also against epidemics like aids, malaria, tuberculosis. i think europe has a social duty here which it cannot abdicate. that is why we must also have resources that are compatible with our ambitions in the new financial perspective, while also trying to fulfil our commitments in the united nations declaration, the so-called millennium declaration, and also our commitments in monterrey with regard to development assistance. as regards more specifically foreign, security and defence policy, and in this context i am referring to several questions, in particular those from mr deus pinheiro and mr wiersma, i think we must develop a defence identity in europe. the new constitution, the new constitutional treaty will help us to consolidate this security and defence identity. i also think we can work with the high representative, the future foreign minister of the european union. in fact, i'm already prepping that job with javier solana, because i think there's a job to be done here. i now turn to the question of iraq, which i raised yesterday, but on which i would like to say a few more words. the truth is that the iraq question has shown that there is still no common european policy. it was not my country that broke the unity of the european union. there were several members of the european union who are even members of the united nations security council who took different positions. this is the reality. it is not the european commission that has to define the foreign policy of the european union, it is still, in our system, an intergovernmental matter. what i can tell you is that as president of the european commission i will try to work, in particular with the new foreign minister of the european union provided for in the new treaty, so that there is gradually a coherent policy of the union, so that the european union speaks with one voice. now, the truth is that on the iraq issue it has been found that this is not the case yet and that is why i understand that it is not useful for us to be here today to talk about who was right. we must now look for ways of getting closer together, and the latest resolution adopted unanimously by the united nations security council already provides the basis for such a convergence. our interest in working together on the iraq issue, our interest in seeking a common vision, namely for the stabilization of iraq, of that region, for an independent and sovereign iraq, for an iraq at peace with itself and at peace with its neighbours. i therefore try to answer the questions put to me by mr wurtz, mr swoboda, mr antónio costa, mr napoletano, mr wiersma, mr frassoni, mr gruber, mr paasilina and all the others, by saying that in the future, if i am confirmed by you as president of the european commission, i will do my best, together with the member states, to ensure that there is a common vision, a common vision which has not visibly existed between the member states, nor, let us be honest and sincere, even within our respective political families. it was a painful issue and we have to get past it in the future. but i want to say the same thing to you yesterday about the question of iraq, and more particularly about relations with the united states. i am very proud to be european. if i am confirmed by you as president of the european commission, it is my duty to defend the general european interest, the common european good, and not the foreign policy vision of country a or country b. i shall not be bound by the foreign policy position of this or that government but by the search for a foreign policy of the european union. as regards relations with the states - a question raised by several members, including swoboda, mussolini, schultz, evans and others - i think it is important that the european union does not define itself as opposed to any country or any region. we have our own identity. we do not need to define ourselves as opposed to the united states, china, russia or any other global power. i think it is in our interest to involve the united states of america constructively in the major global issues, namely environmental issues and the fight against underdevelopment and major epidemics. that is what i will try to do if i am elected president of the european commission. another issue that has been raised here has to do with turkey, which is one of the most difficult issues we have to face. mr grossetête, mr de sarnés, mr martinez, mr molder and mr belder, among others, have spoken on this subject. it will be a key decision for the european union. before any decision is taken in december, both the european commission and the council must hear the european parliament's opinion on this matter. i cannot now assume or presume what the final outcome of this process will be. i do not yet know what the commission's position will be on the report which is still being prepared by the prodi commission, but i can tell you that i agree with you when you say that this is an important matter for debate and that any decision which is taken must be known and explained to everyone, starting with the members of the european parliament. i would also like to say that it must not be a decision based on religious considerations and i am referring to some members and i say to you my conviction that we are a union, a community based on law, based on human rights, and never a union based on any religious prejudice. this point is essential to me! i would also like to say that, regardless of the question of turkey, we must have a special policy towards our neighbours. our neighbours to the east, in the balkans and the mediterranean. that's why i made it a priority yesterday. i think that the european union's foreign policy cannot be everywhere at once, and not everything is a priority. when everything is a priority at the same time, nothing is a priority at all, and what we must do is a constructive policy to spread prosperity and stability to our immediate neighbours in the east, the balkans, the mediterranean, in addition to our active contribution to global multilateral organisations, in particular the united nations. we must therefore strengthen our relations with our immediate neighbours, because our own security and stability depend to a large extent on them. in the institutional questions that have been raised, in particular the procedure for my appointment, this question was raised by mr schultz, mr swoboda, mr martin, mr cohn-bendit, mr ortuondo larrea and also by mr dehaene. i understand the reservations about the method currently used to elect the president of the commission. but the truth is that the treaties were kept. in any case, to show my concern about this issue, i myself have been available to appear in all the political groups that exist in this parliament, and i have therefore gone well beyond the obligations imposed by the treaty to show my respect for the european parliament. it is up to you, and to a large extent to the european parliament, to seek with the council a more concrete way, particularly in 2009, of making the political choice or criterion count in the selection of the president of the commission. i want to be clear and say that i am not just seeking to be the council's candidate, although i am of course very honoured to have had the consensus, the unanimity, the support in the council, but if elected i will be the candidate chosen by the council and by this parliament. that's why i'm here to present my positions and answer your questions, and that's what i'm going to do. i would like to reiterate that if elected i will defend the common european interest by seeking to counter, if necessary, the particular interests of the states, by seeking a balance between all the member states, large, medium and small, since all are important. dignity is exactly the same, no matter what size you are. as regards the question raised by mr swoboda, namely that i have submitted my resignation as prime minister, this decision was a sign of respect by this parliament. it was not right in our system, particularly in the portuguese system, where the president of the republic has certain powers, for portugal to wait a month to find out whether or not its prime minister was elected president of the commission. that's why i'm not here to introduce myself as head of government. i am a member of parliament, a member of the portuguese parliament. i'm here as one of you, presenting your ideas and submitting to your vote. it is a sign of respect for this parliament. another issue which has been raised here by many members, notably de villiers, bonino and carlos coelho, was the problem of commission-parliament relations and i want to use the expression i used in my speech, 'positive complicity'. the european union advances when these two institutions, the commission and the european parliament, work hand in hand, respecting their own powers, of course, without the commission seeking to replace parliament, nor, of course, parliament entering the european commission's powers. but when these two institutions work hand in hand, europe moves forward and that will be my guiding principle. as regards the debate on the future of europe and ratification - a problem raised by mr schultz, mr grossetête and mr dehaene, among others - i would like to say that this is a debate which must be won at national level and all politicians, whether they are members of the european parliament, members of national parliaments or others, can take part in this debate. as an institution, it is the commission's responsibility to provide credible and reliable information on what is going on. so the task of communication will be an essential task, but i think this is a job that requires us to have the political courage to fight against the apathy that mrs bonino and other members of this european parliament have been talking about. i will personally be available for this debate wherever and whenever you want me, but again, it is a debate that must be won at the national level. another question that was also raised has to do with the choices of commissioners, namely whether or not there are supercommissioners. this question was put to me by a number of members, including mrs ludford. i would like to say that i do not want to have just one supercommissioner in my commission, but i would like to have 24 supercommissioners, because i think there is an essential principle, which is the principle of collegiality. the european commission needs to uphold this principle. i have not yet made a final decision - i will only make it after your confirmation - on the structure of the european commission, but i want to say that this is a responsibility of the president of the european commission, not a responsibility of the european council, and for that reason i will exercise my responsibility as regards the allocation of the different portfolios within the commission. the principle of collegiality applies here too, we do not fall within the competence of other institutions, but the council cannot fall within the competence of the commission either. it's my responsibility, and i'm gonna do it. the question of transparency and openness has been raised by several members, including evans, bonde, ludgren, martens and others. i am committed to an open, efficient and accountable european commission. i think the european parliament's role in monitoring the work of the commission is very important. in order to do this supervisory work, members need information and i am prepared to give you that information. the positive work already undertaken by president prodi in this area should be acknowledged. mr bonde has asked some specific questions and i would like to give them an answer. i know that you have been given, and i myself have been involved in this initiative, information on the whole list of expert groups and working groups. i hope that the european commission can provide this parliament on a regular basis with full details of these working parties and experts. i know that the commission has worked with the court of auditors to give this institution its all. i would like to say that i am ready to work with you, in particular with the committee on budgetary control, on the financial control of the commission. i have said that i have not yet made a final decision on the structure of the commission, but there is one decision that i have already made, and that is that the commissioner responsible for the budget will not be the same one who is responsible for auditing and control. i understand that this is a better way of ensuring the control function. as regards the more general questions of documents and information, i am prepared to give this information to parliament. i'd like to see if we can improve the current situation. as regards the problem of whistleblowers, the commission has already revised its staff rules and so the staff of this institution now has a clear responsibility to report all irregularities, and the commission has an obligation to protect the rights of officials who report and communicate such irregularities. as regards the question of gender and the number of women in the european commission, this question was raised yesterday by mr maaten and today by mrs ludford, mrs segelström and mrs záborská and others. i'm all for equal opportunity. i'm for equal rights between men and women. i think it's a very important part of our culture. i think it's a human rights issue and there can be no compromise. i said yesterday that i am determined to have the highest proportion of women in the european commission ever, but today some of the ladies asked me what exactly my objective is. i will tell you what my objective is, but i cannot take responsibility for it alone, because it also depends on the governments and you can help me with some of your governments, particularly those which have not yet decided on the name of the commissioner i am proposing. my aim is to have a third of the commissioners who come to work with me to be women. it's my goal, i'm gonna fight for it, i'm gonna give it my all. i can't guarantee it, but i can tell you that i'm committed to this outcome. economic and social issues, including the issue of social cohesion and the lisbon agenda, were among the most frequently raised by mr schultz, mr poignon, mr antónio costa, mr itälä, mr figueiredo, mr titley, mr rasmussen, mr rosati, mr paasilina, mr hökmark and others. i repeat, ladies and gentlemen, do not believe the caricatures that are being presented about my political profile. i think it is possible to combine a reformist attitude towards markets so that europe is one of the most competitive spaces in the world, if not the most competitive, with a social vision. it's very difficult, of course it is. but we have to work at it. we cannot, for the sake of competitiveness, throw out the european social model. that is why i understand the lisbon agenda as an economic agenda, a competitiveness agenda, but also a social agenda and an environmental agenda. we must do more to increase competition and the internal market and to make a technological leap and increase productivity, invest in education and human resources, pursue clean technologies, but at the same time we must choose a priority and the priority must be growth and jobs. this must clearly be our priority and we will have the opportunity to define it during the mid-term review of the lisbon agenda which is being prepared by former prime minister wim kok. i hope we will be able to focus our priority on growth and job creation, because these are the factors which can really guarantee the social agenda. but jobs are only created if there is economic growth, that is the point, and that is why we must increase europe's productivity and competitiveness in order to provide jobs, which is what our fellow citizens are asking for most. that is also why, with regard to the stability and growth pact, a question which has been put to me today by mr rasmussen, mr rossati, mr de vits and many others, i have said to you and i can say the following: it does not seem sensible to me to think of revising the treaty which created the stability and growth pact, and frankly we are not going to do so. what we can do, and some ideas are already being put forward, is to look for flexible interpretations which will allow, without compromising the essential principles of the stability and growth pact, that it does not undermine our growth prospects. that's my orientation. on the financial perspective, in particular for the new member states, in reply to the questions by mr vaidere, mr kósáné kovács, mr rouček, mr pahor and others. i consider this a priority, especially for the new member states, which need the cohesion and solidarity of the european union, as some of us, including my own country, have benefited from that solidarity. it's not a zero-sum game, it's not a game where what some people win, others lose. the aid that can be given to the new member states is good for europe and what is good for poland, the czech republic, hungary, the baltic states, slovakia or slovenia is good for europe as a whole. i am convinced that the growth of these countries will make an important contribution to the overall growth of the european union, and that is why i propose to advocate an ambitious financial perspective. i shall be defending these financial perspectives on the basis of the prodi commission's work and i need your help in this too before the council to convince those who have not yet been convinced of the importance of solidarity and cohesion policy. as regards the question of pluralism in the media, raised yesterday by mrs napoletano and today by mrs gruber, this is a very important issue which goes to the heart of our democracy and the question of cultural diversity in europe. the commission has looked at this in the past, notably in its role, its green paper, in the mid-1990s. media pluralism is a principle absolutely recognised in the charter of fundamental rights and now enshrined in the constitution itself. the questions you raise concern an initiative by the commission. for the commission to be able to legislate on this matter, we need to be sure that there is a legal basis in the european union. there are questions that remain to be clarified. we cannot underestimate the difficulties of this subject, although i would like to say without any hesitation that i am personally in favour of full respect for the principles of pluralism in information. i would also like to say that i understand the sensitivity and concern about the question of gmos. it is precisely because of its very sensitive nature that the union has created a global regulatory framework on gmos in order to ensure a scientifically sound system capable of dealing adequately with all these issues. i am convinced that this system must now be applied with firmness, with determination, because there is a question of credibility here. the time has come to show the european citizens and our trading partners that the european authorisation system works as intended. the truth is that this system is the most advanced in the world and for this reason we cannot lose credibility here. i want, of course, to see this system implemented and i want to assure this parliament that a commission headed by me will give the utmost importance to this matter, which has been worth some effort. finally, i would like to address the questions of the design of the european union which have been raised by so many members. in this respect, of course, i cannot count on the support of those who want to do away with the european commission and who want to do away with the european union. i can't do that! but i ask for the support of all those who want to advance the european project, and here i take the liberty of disagreeing with some of the members who have said that i have political convictions in a certain area and that is why members who are not in my political area will vote against me. frankly, i don't think that is reasonable. because then there would never be, if there is no stable majority in this parliament, there would never be the possibility of electing a president of the european commission. i also disagree with the members who say they are not voting against me, but against me because i am the council's candidate. well, then it means that there would never be a president of the european commission under the current rules. we are a union of states and citizens. i do not think it is incompatible and i answer the question put by mrs ludford and also by the member who has just spoken about my convictions: it's not incompatible to have a big vision and have strong convictions and then be pragmatic about how you execute it, and that's how i am. i have strong convictions that are non-negotiable, particularly in matters of freedom and the rule of law. i believe that the fight against terrorism must be conducted without compromising our fundamental freedoms. security yes, but not security. i am in favour of freedom as an essential point. i have clearly stated my values: freedom, respect for human rights, the rule of law, equal opportunities and solidarity. there is no negotiation there and there is no ambiguity in my position. but as president of the commission, i will certainly seek compromises, because i am not here as the representative of a political family, as i am convinced that it is the duty of the president of the european commission to work with the epp family, with the liberals and democrats, with the socialists and with other members from various groups who have a basic understanding of each other to advance the european project. europe without commitment does not move forward, ladies and gentlemen. this is not a lack of conviction, it is a conviction in the virtues of pluralism and commitment and the community method. we have a great vision for europe, for sure. we have deep convictions, but we will carry them out pragmatically. that is why, returning to the image used yesterday by mr watson and also used by me, namely the aircraft that carries no one in the cockpit, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that the european union does not operate as an automatic pilot. there's no modern aviation system that can give us the secret. the european union operates with political leadership. it works with political courage, and what i promise you is that i will try to exercise that political leadership but not in a sectarian way, seeking dynamic consensus, because i understand that the european commission can be the pilot in this european union that is going through a decisive phase of its history by completing the enlargement of the european union, showing our solidarity, projecting peace, prosperity, security and solidarity, not only within our continent but beyond it. that is why, in closing, i ask for your support by saying that if i am confirmed by you, i will be the president of the european commission seeking to unite all europeans, from the mediterranean to the baltic sea, from the founding member states of the european union to those who have just joined, from the richest countries to the poorest, from the largest to the smallest, seeking not only to be the honest mediator that is needed between all the institutions, but also to be a factor of unity to advance our european project. i know that many are pessimistic about europe, but let us look ahead. what was europe like 50 years ago? how are you today? what was europe like a few years ago when it was divided by the berlin wall and the baltic countries were occupied by another power, where there was no freedom in much of our continent, and what is it like today? we're better off today than we were 50 years ago. my wish is that in 50 years we will be much better than we are today. i believe that, and that's what i intend to do with your help and your solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr barroso. the sitting was adjourned so that the political groups could meet. the following are the main types of declaration:
i am grateful to mrs mussolini for her defence of women's rights, but let me point out that this was not a question of order.
the agenda now contains the vote on the proposals from the conference of presidents - appointments to parliamentary committees. the proposals from the conference of presidents are approved.
all members have the right to be on a committee. this right must be strictly respected. it is up to the political groups to make proposals to guarantee this right. if things are as you say and there are members of this parliament who have not been assigned to any committee, i ask the leaders of the political groups - and in particular the chairman of the people's group, to which these members belong - to make a proposal as soon as possible for the reassignment of seats so that all members can be guaranteed to be part of a committee. we'll resolve this problem as soon as possible.
before announcing the result of the election of the proposed president of the commission, we will wait a few minutes for mr barroso to be present.
the results of the vote were as follows: 711 votes cast, 3 ballots cast, 44 abstentions and blank votes, 664 votes cast, 413 votes in favour and 251 against. (prolonged applause) in accordance with these results, the candidate for president of the commission proposed by the council has been elected by the european parliament. i congratulate mr durão barroso and, in accordance with rule 98 (3) of the rules of procedure, i will inform the council and invite it to propose, by common accord with the president-elect of the commission, the candidates for the various posts and members of the commission.
president of the commission. i know that most portuguese people are very proud today that a portuguese man is the next president of the european commission. i want to tell all my compatriots that i am the one who is very proud to be portuguese.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 1.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 22 july 2004.
ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep sadness that i must open our september partsession, as my predecessors have done on other occasions, by recalling the terrorist acts that have been committed throughout the world. tomorrow at 12 noon this house will hold a minute's silence in tribute to the children who were victims of the horror of beslan. and in order to make this symbolic gesture have a collective impact, i have asked the 25 heads of state and government of the countries of the union that all the schools of europe join us in our act of remembrance of these victims. i can tell you that i have already received notifications from several governments at this time that they will do so. i also want to analyse the scourge of terrorism from a political point of view, remembering the feeling of insecurity our fellow citizens feel in the face of it and the response we should give to it. but we cannot begin our work on 13 september without honouring, with that minute of silence which we shall observe tomorrow, all the victims of all the terrorist attacks which have bled in many parts of the world, as well as all the victims of 11 september 2001 in new york and 11 march 2004 in madrid, to mention only the most recent and spectacular cases. but in iraq, in russia, in the middle east, in indonesia, in afghanistan, many human beings have fallen victim to the madness of those who want to impose their worldview through terror. i have responded to each of these tragic events in your name, ladies and gentlemen, and i extend our solidarity to the victims and their families. i cannot end these words without making a further appeal to the kidnappers of the two ngo workers who have been kidnapped in iraq, two italian women who, because of their humanitarian commitment, struggling to take care of iraqi children, have been the victims of a kidnapping, as well as the two french journalists who were struggling to fulfil their mission, which is to inform us all of what is happening there. and to end these sad recollections of a painful reality, i must also include in our memory someone who was not the victim of a terrorist attack but of an unfortunate accident: the orthodox patriarch petros vii who, as you know, was the victim along with 16 other people of an unfortunate helicopter accident. we also dedicate our thoughts and memories to him.
mr stevenson, you will have the opportunity to speak at the appropriate time when you are given the floor, at the scheduled part-session on this subject, where all members will be able to speak for one minute. now is not the time to do that. approval of the minutes - documents received - petitions - membership of parliament - progress on parliament's positions and resolutions - membership of committees - approval by the council of parliament's positions at first reading - application for suspension of parliamentary immunity - request for the protection of parliamentary immunity - transmission by the council of texts of agreements - order of business - request for urgency: see minutes.
i am sorry, mrs tzampazi, but i have to limit your time despite the interest of your proposals.
thank you very much, mr toussas, and you can be sure that our minute's silence tomorrow extends its feeling to all the children who have been victims of terrorism, wherever they may have been.
the debate on matters of political importance is closed. i thank all the members for their cooperation. for a motion for a resolution, i call mr. evans, robert j.e.
as i shall explain in more detail tomorrow, we still have unresolved problems in translation and not all the questions that have been put will be translated into all the languages. however, the general secretariat has informed me that they appear in the list of questions to be put to the commission, although they have not been translated into all the languages, but they appear in the order of the questions to be put to the commission and to the council.
the next item is the commission statement on the recent environmental disasters (fires in southern europe).
commission. mr president, we are seeing an increasing frequency in natural disasters here in europe and around the world. as we have seen recently, floods and forest fires wreak havoc, causing human and economic problems and also serious damage to our environment. of course we are trying to combat these problems. with regard to forest fires, a series of common measures in the field of prevention, protection and restoration have now been put in place. our rural development programmes provide support for a wide range of forest activities, providing funds for prevention of fires and restoration of forests damaged by fires, according to priorities decided by the member states. in portugal approximately eur 149 m from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund is available for prevention and restoration for 2000-2006. in spain the total budget allocated for forestry measures for the same period amounts to eur 820 million. the recently created eu solidarity fund was established to respond to major disasters which caused direct damage of more than eur 3 bn or exceeded 0.6% of the affected country's gross national income. only in very exceptional circumstances can the solidarity fund be mobilised for disasters that remain below this high threshold. it has already been mobilised following the huge fires last year in portugal and spain and, at their request, it provided eur 48.5 m for portugal and eur 1.3 m for spain. the commission has not yet received any requests for 2004. as you know, the forest focus regulation is our most recent instrument to monitor and to implement prevention measures in the field of forest fires, as well as to detect the reasons for their frequency. the financial framework for the implementation of the forest focus scheme for 2003-2006 is fixed at eur 65 m, of which eur 9 m can be used for fire prevention measures. our civil protection assistance mechanism is also proving its worth. in 2003 and 2004 portugal sent requests for assistance to the eu monitoring and information centre, which then coordinated support offers from other participating countries. thanks to the mechanism, it was possible to ensure the rapid despatch of aerial forest fire-fighting means to portugal. in 2003 portugal accepted the assistance of two aircraft from italy and three aircraft from germany. in 2004 spain supplied three aircraft, france two, germany two, greece two and italy one. additional assistance was offered by the uk and norway but was not taken up by portugal. four years ago i expressed my concerns about the increasing number of forest fires and the damage they cause, stating that the risk for forest fires and the vulnerability of our forests have now reached a level beyond which further fires would seriously endanger the ecosystems and their sustainable management. sadly we saw this happen during last year's heatwave, which hit southern europe in particular and which culminated in the destruction of large parts of the portuguese natura areas. i wish to conclude by saying that the commission has taken your resolution of 4 september 2003 on the effects of the summer heatwave into account, and it serves as a very useful compendium for actions and measures on which to base future initiatives.
mr president, i have to agree with the commissioner when she says that in the european union the problems of fires are causing great environmental tragedies. there are 45 000 fires in the european union every year and more are going to be burning every day because drought, which is a structural problem in the european union, is going to cause ever greater environmental problems, not only in southern europe but also in the north. the united nations experts also tell us that this problem will continue to increase with climate change, and we find that in the face of these 45 000 fires a year, the european union lacks a genuine common policy for fighting fires. measures, means and money are lacking. i would remind you of regulation 2158/92, the expiry of which led the european commission to show that it wanted to abolish the fire-fighting helplines. this parliament, when the forest focus was discussed, managed to extract nine million euros from the european commission until 2006, a ridiculous figure. on the other hand, we have the forestry chapter of the rural development regulation. that regulation has not worked. i agree with the commissioner when she talks about 820 million euros, but they are under-utilized. they are misused because there is no interregional or interstate coordination. the member states act as they wish and improvise. yes, the french may have brought two planes to help fight the fire in portugal, but it was by no means in a coordinated way. and the coordination is not interregional either. an example of this is what has happened this year in spain. there is a region in northern spain - galicia - where the largest forest area is found. 99% of the fires that occur in this autonomous region are controlled within 24 hours. in galicia, forest fires are being fought effectively and forest activation plans are being put in place. its rate of fire is five times lower than the average for the spanish state. and yet, in andalusia, we have seen 42,131 hectares burned because the means available were not used. this is a drama and this should be a good opportunity for this to be fixed. how did you do that? i would like to put a little common sense into all this, because the european commission is due to present the european forestry strategy in the coming months, and this should be an opportunity for it to reflect in depth on this problem. and that a forestry policy be introduced in the european union which takes seriously the measures to protect forests against fires and, above all, which helps to coordinate administrations so that, at least and without extending the means, the scarce instruments currently available are properly used and that an episode like the one that the junta de andalucía has experienced and played in this summer and has been experienced in the european union never happens again.
mr president, commissioner, the fact that we are debating fires again in this parliament shows that we are not doing something quite right. the figure for the area burned is a real ecological catastrophe. in my region alone - as has already been said here - in andalusia, more than 40 000 hectares of forest have been burned in a total of 753 fires so far this year. in view of the consequences of the fires this summer, we should honestly ask ourselves whether the commission's opposition to the increase in budgetary appropriations under the forest focus regulation was justified. the commission should also seriously ask itself whether it was right to shift the burden of fire prevention to regional and rural development funds without establishing adequate control mechanisms to ensure that they are used precisely for prevention, reforestation and regeneration in this area. the reality today is that our countries are in urgent need of help. i therefore ask the commission to clarify whether it is considering the granting of any additional funds for the restoration of the funds concerned. the union should not take a single step backwards in its climate change policy. the question is very clear: does the commission consider that the european union is acting in an appropriate way to protect its forest heritage? does the commission think that it would be possible to allocate extra funds from the solidarity fund or some other much more flexible mechanism to mitigate the effects of these fires, which are destroying a natural heritage from which all of europe benefits?
mr president, the greens are very concerned that there is no preventive war against fires. the greens call for a pre-emptive war against fires. the present abandonment of the rural world, depopulation, the demographic bleeding, have a disastrous result. european funds do not reach those responsible for managing the mountain. the people who have lived off forest resources like cork, or the oak fruit, for example, in andalusia, have lost their livelihood. this is not just an accident, but the clear result of a policy which relegates the rural world to the last place, which does not organize resources, which is oriented towards planting species such as eucalyptus and pine - precisely what some people in this house are now criticizing and used to defend - leaving a legacy of ignorance which then produces fires. this situation calls for investment in civil and rural society, both in programmes such as the laeder programme which is now being considered for abandonment and in other rural programmes which reflect a civic fabric of the peoples of europe.
mr president, i am well aware that mrs wallström knows that she has given us a political answer with data and statistics, and she is well aware that, at the moment, the european union's aid to the forest fires is simply money handed out here and there. there is no such thing as a complex strategy, because it is a complex problem, and it is interdisciplinary and involves cooperation between institutions. and politicians are there to solve complex, difficult problems. in this sense, i think we need to make a model of risk management, management and cooperation, because we have issues from the judiciaries, because there is a lot of terrorism, to the issue of the police, the issue of the civilian population, the local authorities. models must be made, the same as was done for agenda 21. the european union is capable of doing that. but above all i am concerned about the need for strong shared technological development, because the principle of subsidiarity requires the european commission to do what countries or regions cannot do. and the problem of technological development is very important. for example, the transfer of military technology, the development of gis and many other things that in some regions are being applied with great success and that would need a technology to be shared among the 25 countries, among all the regions, among all the local authorities, because, of course, without that technological advance, we can only achieve human efforts and a lot of good will, but little success.
mr president, there is no doubt that the first responsible for the forest fires are the authors. in 96% of cases, the causes are attributable to man and that is why the spanish government has already announced a series of measures, including the tightening of penalties for this crime or the prohibition of building in affected areas. it is also true, as has already been said, that other causes cannot be forgotten. the transformation of the socioeconomic structures of rural areas seems to be the most fundamental, but so too is the lack of success of european rural and forestry development policy. most fires start in neglected forests, a consequence of the abandonment of traditional agricultural activity, the ageing of the population and the demographic crisis. but, mrs wallström, you cannot put the entire weight of this serious problem on the eaggf or rural development policy. the serious environmental consequences of forest fires call for european action. the difficulties you have experienced in implementing the solidarity fund should be alleviated by the creation of a specific rapid intervention mechanism for these smaller scale and smaller scale disasters than those foreseen by the solidarity fund. at the same time, european forestry policy should be reoriented by recognising the uniqueness of the southern forest and by drawing up a specific plan for its protection and for the comprehensive environmental recovery of burned areas. i would like to conclude by saying - and i hope that this is not misunderstood - that i believe that party politics should be absent from this debate, and that we should all seek a consensus position. if that is not the case - it rains in galicia and it does not rain in andalusia - then perhaps some members might begin to wonder where the €820 million that commissioner wallström has told us about has been spent.
commission. mr president, this debate has illustrated the complexity of this issue, which affects us at all levels. we know that climate change will probably increase these types of extreme weather events and it is quite probable that we will see more of these problems occurring, as the international panel of climate change has told us. that underlines the responsibility that is shared between the different levels. the european union, the commission and the institutions will have to act in a coordinated way to ensure that we have the necessary capacity. member states will also have to be sure that they have done everything for prevention and that we have a higher level of preparedness to deal with these forest fires, extreme weather events and catastrophes. it is a matter of resources - such as fire brigades - and being able to mobilise them quickly. it is also a matter of having resources for prevention activities. so there is a whole spectrum of activities and responsibilities. we are addressing that. you know as well as the commission does that member states in general are very reluctant to engage in a debate on a common forest policy for europe, so we are also touching upon very sensitive political issues and responsibilities. even if we set aside more money, it is not always true that this would help immediately, unless there is better coordination of activities, unless there is better planning for prevention and preparedness on the part also of member states. i just want to underline that as welcome as more money is, it is not always a matter of only having more money; there also has to be better planning and coordination in member states. thank you for this valuable debate on an issue that we risk having to raise again in the near future. i appreciate the interest you show in finding common solutions to prevent forest fires, to fight them and also to mitigate the damage they cause - because the funding has often been a matter of mitigating and trying to come in after the damage has been done - as well as to help member states restore their potential for forestry production. i have noted several suggestions that i will also take into due consideration after this plenary part-session and there will be a follow-up. i believe we could further increase transparency concerning the application of existing instruments. we will also examine the need for additional prevention measures when implementing the forest focus regulation as we will do when considering the proposal for the council's rural development regulation. as a first modest step, next november the commission will hold a conference entitled 'citizen participation from restoration to prevention - good governance for the restoration campaign to follow forest fires in france, greece, italy, portugal, spain, slovenia and cyprus'. so it will also take into account the experience that we have gathered. it will focus on restoration and involvement of civil society because, as you said, the causes can be anything from climate change to the human factor. we must seek to identify the lessons learned from last year's events, raise awareness among citizens and local and regional authorities, and collect suggestions for the future. so there is also work to do to improve our activities in this field. i am happy that we have found today a common view on possible actions that we should focus on for the future. i once again thank you for this debate.
the debate is closed.
we shall now move on to the next item on the agenda and the oral question on the international civil aviation organization.
commission. the emissions from aviation are increasingly significant. according to the sector's own analysis, the world passenger aircraft fleet could double by 2020. that means an increase from 12 000 aircraft to roughly 25 000 aircraft by 2020. this has a significant impact and, therefore, what we do is important. the commission was aware of these problems months ago. there have been discussions with coreper since july and there is definitely a common position between all 25 member states and the commission to keep all options open. we believe that this is the only way forward. the next discussion in coreper on the future strategy will take place next friday. the commission and member states, with the uk taking the lead, are now working on alternative texts, as it is important to do the practical work. the commission will also study the technical feasibility of introducing aviation emissions trading schemes into a general scheme and will look at different solutions in this area. the conclusions are expected in nine months, on the basis of which the commission intends to propose measures. our position is clearly to keep all options open in order to be effective. we are grateful for the support of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
we now come to the next item on the agenda: the debate on the commission statement on the consequences of the sinking of a ship containing toxic ash off the turkish coast.
commission. mr president, according to the information currently available to us, the ship that sank recently in turkey had originally sailed from spain in the year 2000 with a cargo of ash from a coal power plant in spain. in may 2000 the turkish authorities informed the spanish ministry of the environment that they had received 2 200 tonnes of ash that had been exported without authorisation. the turkish authorities classified the waste as hazardous due to its chromium content. the secretariat of the basel convention was also informed. according to the spanish authorities, they immediately began to investigate the case. the information from the port of avilés showed that the documents that the ship was carrying were forged, hiding the fact that the waste was originally destined for algeria but had been rejected there because it was wet and therefore unusable. the company exporting the cargo stated that it had not intended to send the waste to turkey, but to algeria, and that the captain of the ship had acted without its consent. the spanish authorities took action against the company and required it to take the waste back to spain for treatment. the company appealed against the decision and administrative proceedings went on until the end of 2002. in 2003 and 2004 discussions continued as to how to return the ash to spain. in july 2004 the turkish authorities informed the spanish authorities that they could proceed with a plan drawn up by the company to transfer the ash to another vessel and return it to spain. however, before this could be done, the vessel sank on 6 september. we have strict rules in place that regulate the movement of waste within and outside the european union. exports of waste for disposal are prohibited. exports of hazardous waste for recovery to oecd countries, including turkey, have to be notified to the competent authority in the country of export and need the consent of the authorities concerned. if an eu member state discovers that a shipment has taken place without notification, it has to ensure either that the waste is taken back within 30 days or that it is taken care of in an environmentally sound manner. according to the information available, spain was willing to take back the waste and fulfil its legal obligations. unfortunately, legal and administrative problems delayed a solution until it was too late. this problem should have been prevented at source. therefore it is one of our priorities to work further towards improving implementation of community legislation. we are holding regular meetings with national authorities to discuss problems of implementation and possible solutions. a key issue in this respect is increased cooperation between port authorities in order to tackle, among other things, the problem of port hopping. furthermore, may i remind you that the role of non-eu countries in cases such as this is defined in the basel convention on transboundary movements of hazardous waste and their disposal.
mr president, mrs wallström, thank you for your statement. we are faced with a new maritime accident, this time in the mediterranean, which highlights the present fragility of the common network we are building to ensure the greatest possible maritime safety. the erika and prestige accidents in community waters have taught us the hard way about the urgent need for legislation and control of maritime traffic in the european union, and have painfully brought about a set of very advanced legislative measures whose transposition, implementation and rigorous application are helping to advance the process of strengthening maritime safety and preventing marine pollution within the union. in the case of the mv ulla accident in the port of iskenderun, alexandria, turkey, we find another type of need, which has to do with coordination between the authorities of a member state of the union which has always complied with international and community legislation and the authorities of an associated state which aspires to be part of the union and which should therefore make every effort, as it already does in other areas, to comply with what we call the community acquis on environmental prevention, and with the contradiction between the two aspects involved in this type of accident: the urgent practical measures and decisions to deal with the environmental emergency and the much slower legal requirements, the conflicts and the difficulty of identifying the last responsible parties which the interests of the maritime traffic chamber cause, and which it is constantly denouncing. in this case, we can say that the spanish authorities have complied from the outset with the requirements of the basle convention, by opening a sanctioning dossier against the company and obliging it to repatriate the ashes and also by carrying out all the necessary coordination with the turkish authorities and providing all the necessary assistance and technical assistance so that the repatriation of the ashes could be carried out. unfortunately, delays, especially those resulting from an embargo imposed on the vessel by the turkish authorities, have meant that, in the last period, from 7 july, when that embargo is finally lifted and the company, therefore, due to pressure from the spanish authorities, has recognised the need and its requirement for repatriation, the turkish authorities finally have free access to the vessel. it is too short a time and the ship, which was already in a rather difficult condition, as has been shown by the various arrests it has suffered in the past, ends up sinking in circumstances which are still to be clarified. it must be said that the spanish authorities have raised the need for this assistance from the outset, that a technical assistance mission is currently on its way to turkey and that, in this case, it will once again be necessary to consider how other actors operating in this tangle of legislation and maritime traffic have responded or not to their obligations: the company, other authorities, the captain, etc.
mr president, i think we're at the tip of the iceberg. it is not a coincidence, it is not an isolated incident, we are talking about the number one company in the construction materials sector: lafargue-asland, we are talking about its spanish subsidiary dragados, which has already been fined 18 times for not declaring the content of its waste. we are talking about a four-year period, whereas the deadline for returning the waste should be 30 days. what has happened in these three and a half years and more? what has the european commission done? we ask the commission to adopt a zero-tolerance policy. at this moment - as i speak - there are probably dozens and dozens of ships in the same situation. what is this company doing, which is exporting the same material to algeria on a massive scale, and has been fined 18 times, when there has been no public transfer, when the commission has not been informed? we believe that the european commission should take action in this matter by adopting clear sanctioning measures against infringements. an infringement procedure must be opened to find out the causes and responsibilities of the disaster. we cannot expect the pedagogy of catastrophe in this matter, we cannot accept a litigation that goes on forever.
commission. mr president, honourable members, we have a common interest in keeping our seas safe and preventing environmental catastrophes of this kind. i would, of course, never contradict the commission's statement – probably supported by all institutions – that we should learn from accidents of this kind. we should also do everything to prevent this continuing to be only the tip of the iceberg. we also know that there is a lot of money involved in wasted shipments; but i do not accept that the commission should take the blame for everything that has happened in this particular case. it is not the responsibility of the commission alone. we have a responsibility, we will accept that to the full; but in this case, i repeat, the problem should have been prevented at source. it is not entirely a legal problem or to do with something missing in the legislation, but it is a combination of illegal actions and legal and administrative problems, which delayed a solution until it was too late. we have to concentrate on implementing environmental legislation to the full, thus avoiding problems of this kind. of course, we will see if there is anything to be learned from this. can we act in a better way, can we prevent this happening in the future? it is also very clear from the existing legislation where the responsibility lies. it is not that this case opens up enormous gaps in the existing legislation, but rather how the legislation is being interpreted, implemented and enforced in different member states. the issue was raised about the "polluter pays" principle, which is one of the fundamental principles in eu legislation and in eu environmental policy. but in this case the pollution has taken place outside the eu where, of course, the commission has no competence to apply eu law. we have to get the facts right. i hope this discussion will prove fruitful for the future, because it is in our common interest to make sure that this does not happen again and that we learn lessons and can keep our seas safe. it is very important that enforcement is also carried out, to make sure that the signal goes out to all actors in cases like this. thank you for a good debate.
thank you very much, madam commissioner. the debate is closed. (the sitting was closed at 7.10 p.m. the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0243 - c4-0210/97).
ladies and gentlemen, i would now like to use my privilege as president to address you. first of all, i would like to thank you again for the confidence you have shown in me by electing me as president of our parliament. i have already announced that i will leave the presentation of my strategic vision for the first half of this legislature for this plenary session. it is not a question of presenting a political programme or of presenting my own ideas on european integration. my purpose as president is only to outline and guide the priorities of our agenda. in doing so, i want to share with you the pride of belonging to the greatest multinational parliamentary institution, a symbol of peace and democracy, respectful of diversity, a forum for debate and decision-making which affects the daily lives of all europeans, even if many are not sufficiently aware of it, and the future of the world in which we are going to live. this feeling of pride in all of us goes hand in hand with a sense of responsibility. responsibility in the exercise of our powers, in our position on international affairs, responsibility for the proper functioning of this enlarged parliament. a parliament through which flows one of the two sources of legitimacy on which our union is based, the one that flows and represents the european citizens, which does not have to always coincide with the other, the one that emanates from the member states. a parliament in which 25 different parliamentary traditions already coexist and which is expressed in 20 official and working languages, with the complexity and cost that this entails. these are many languages, but they do not yet represent the full linguistic diversity of europe. i am reminded of this fact often. in the exercise of this responsibility, i have spent the last few days of the summer, in the name of all of you, issuing continuous statements of strong condemnation of the attacks and terrorist acts which have struck, in the most savage and cruel way, in different parts of the world. the european parliament has thus joined the democrats in their feelings of sadness and solidarity with the families who have been so unjustly and brutally bereaved by this tragedy, from which no country is unfortunately exempt. to emphasize this, to express this feeling in the most solemn and collective way possible, i have addressed the 25 heads of state and government of the member states of our union, suggesting that today, together with us, the representatives of the european citizens, the schools of the eu should observe a minute's silence in memory of the children of the children who were victims of the beslan school massacre and, in general, of all the children who are the victims of terrorist violence in the world. i can anticipate them, since several countries have announced that they will join this initiative, an expression of the feeling of the europeans in the face of these terrible events. ladies and gentlemen, our parliament condemns and rejects all acts of terrorism, because terror, in any form and in any country, is contrary to the values on which the european union is founded, whose citizens expect european unity to be a way of fighting more effectively against a threat which is today one of their main sources of concern and insecurity. let me tell you that it is not enough to express the horror we feel. repeated condemnation causes words of pain to reflect frustration and helplessness. there is no excuse or reason for such abominable events as those we have experienced this summer, the 11 september attacks in new york or the 11 march attacks in madrid. all forms of terrorism are to be condemned, but the debate taking place in the world today, especially in our western and developed world, is not about condemning it but about how to combat it. certainly, suicidal fanaticism is not going to be stopped by reasonable arguments put forth by educated and intelligent people. but we cannot claim to eradicate all its causes by the simple and indiscriminate use of force, by avenging on other children the harm done to our own and creating an unbearable escalation of violence. we're not going to win the battle against terrorism by thinking of it as a conventional war. this parliament must develop the area of security and justice, actively promote a counter-terrorism strategy based on international police, judicial and intelligence cooperation, and combat the underlying causes that fuel murderous and suicidal fanaticism. analyzing is not justifying. the debates and resolutions of this parliament can never be mistaken for a justification of terrorist violence. the fight against terrorism requires us to reflect on its causes in order to combat it better, and this parliament must continue to debate in good conscience, as it has done so far, and in particular to analyse the situation in chechnya, iraq and palestine, however angry the reactions to our deliberations may be. ladies and gentlemen, the news this summer has also reflected another source of concern and insecurity in europe. i am referring to the increasingly frequent phenomenon of companies moving their activities within an integrated economic area in search of better working and tax conditions, which we call delocalisation. you will have seen how this phenomenon generates defensive reactions in some countries which can affect the union's solidarity policies. it certainly raises the question of the relationship between economic competitiveness and social cohesion in a conflicting way, objectives which, in our view, must be complementary and which are proclaimed in the european construction and, in particular, in the lisbon strategy. everything is more complicated than it seems. the simple nominal comparison of labour costs is perhaps not the only explanation for this phenomenon. this debate is certainly of interest to europeans, who expect a 'europe as a solution' and not a 'europe as a problem'. it must therefore be very present in the work of this parliament, through the many subjects which cross our agenda and to which i shall refer later. but first, let me remind you that our first duty is to contribute to the proper functioning of the enlarged parliament, which will soon include romania and bulgaria. let us remember that we are an institution that consumes public resources and faces new problems of scale and efficiency. i will personally chair a task force tasked with ensuring that our size does not diminish our effectiveness. two issues are of particular importance in this connection: the statute for members and the language arrangements. i have already announced that the statute would be a priority issue and that is why i met with the president-in-office of the council, mr balkenende, on 8 september, who assured me that he would make the necessary contacts with the representatives of the governments which were unable to agree to our proposal for a statute, in order to find out what their alternative approaches might be. i would remind you that parliament has never been informed of the reasons why some countries were unable to accept this proposal. i think that, as long as we do not have information on this, we should not change the consensus reached in parliament, without prejudice to our reiterating our permanent readiness for dialogue and an open mind towards the suggestions we receive from the council or from the member states which are in a better position to move towards an agreement. as regards the language arrangements, i should like to remind you that their application is regulated by a provision of the bureau of the previous parliament, in the form of a code of conduct on multilingualism. i ask everyone, especially the committees and coordinators, to cooperate fully in its proper implementation, given the shortage of interpretation and translation resources which we are still suffering from and which will take some time to resolve. i urge everyone to permanently adapt the language requirements of each working meeting to the resources available. as regards the wish expressed by some members in the previous part-session to use their own language, which is not yet an official language of the union, i must remind them that our language arrangements depend on council decisions, which must be taken unanimously, and as long as these decisions are not taken, the presidency must insist on compliance with the rules of procedure, regardless of its personal views. i would also like to remind you that when the constitutional treaty is ratified - if it is finally ratified - the european parliament will have reached its maturity and we will have a framework which will define our roles and responsibilities in a stable way. however, the constitution will not come into force, if it is finally ratified, until 1 november 2006. until then, our most important task will be to promote and participate in the debate on the ratification of the constitutional treaty. between 29 october, the date of the signature of the constitutional treaty in rome, and 1 november 2006, the date set for its entry into force, my presidency will be marked by the process of ratification of the european constitution in the 25 member states. many of the ratifications - about one a month - will be expressed by referendum. the first will take place in my own country, spain, in february 2005. the two years that will pass will be a great opportunity for europeans to take an interest in the europe they want to make, as defined in that text, in what it brings to them and why it matters to them. and we have to have an attitude of service to the citizens, innovating communication and developing positions that are useful to them. before the end of the year we will approve a report drawn up by mr corbett and mr méndez vigo and discussed in the committee on constitutional affairs. this parliament must be the great now of europe. we must set an example of open, plural and democratic debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. no one is in possession of the true and only idea of europe. the debate will be complex for reasons of identity or ideology, or because of the different conceptions we have of the europe we want to make. we must therefore discuss the major issues of the constitutional draft in the committee on constitutional affairs, in large-scale debates, and i have asked its president to send me specific proposals to encourage our parliamentary debate. but it is not our debate that is important, but how the citizens perceive it. the important thing is to illustrate to them what it is, what the constitution says and what it does not say. the important thing is that they should decide on the text of the constitutional treaty and not on the basis of the political context of each of their countries. once parliament has expressed its opinion, we must make sure that it is known and taken into account in the ratification process. i wish it could have been put forward in a more pan-european way, more closely, in all the countries! our main challenge is to europeanise the debate and to prevent internal political issues from influencing it, as happened so often in the last european elections. we will coordinate with the national parliaments, with whom we have worked closely during the convention, and i myself will chair a working group dedicated to promoting the constitution as a political project subject to the most important debate europeans have undertaken since they began their common walk on the ruins of war. i invite you to that. but first we have more immediate work to do. the first of these is the investiture of the commission. we have read in some newspapers that our task is a mere formality. for some, the outcome is already a foregone conclusion and is a purely formal process with no political added value. you know that's not true. we'll have to prove it. whatever appreciation the barroso commission deserves from each of us, the inauguration should be a great opportunity to make known the broad lines of the work they want to do, to know the personal and political capacities of the men and women who make it up; to know what the political groups in this parliament demand from this body which is the engine of the community government. at the beginning of my speech i raised the two major issues which are today a source of insecurity in europe: terror and the social circumstances surrounding employment. what will the commission say, what will it propose on these major issues? what will he say about the reform of the stability pact? we know what the prodi commission has started to say, and that the commissioner responsible will remain the same. we will also have the opportunity to continue discussing the proposals for reforming a pact which has much to do with the lisbon strategy and which mr barroso has placed at the centre of his action. how does the commission intend to make europe a leading power in the field of the environment, sustainable development and development aid? what do you think about the concentration of media in europe? how do you intend to deal with this problem? how do you see europe's relationship with the other continents? how does it intend to boost euro-mediterranean relations and revitalize the stalled barcelona process? what will be your relationship with this parliament? how do you see your relations with the high representative of the council for foreign affairs at this transitional stage? we will discuss these issues and make sure that the hearings are organised in a less rigid, more lively and spontaneous way than in the past. when the new commission is in office, the president will ask it to strengthen its presence in the european parliament. i will ask the president of the commission to meet regularly with the chairmen of the political groups. i shall make the same request to the council, and in particular to the high representative for foreign affairs, javier solana. in addition to our ordinary legislative tasks - and there is one very important one, the reach directive on chemicals - we will have to examine three other major issues by the end of the year. i shall refer first of all to the question of turkey, because of its strategic importance. as we wished, the conference of presidents will receive the turkish prime minister, mr erdogan, on 23 september. as you can see, mr erdogan will be coming to this parliament before the commission has presented its report, as we wanted. formally, this parliament has no role in deciding whether or not to open accession negotiations in december. we have no need to express an opinion on this. but it would be inconceivable for us to remain silent on a subject which, at the end of the road, however long it may be, cannot be decided without our agreement. and the important thing about roads is not how long they are, but where they lead. i think that this parliament should draw up a report on turkey's accession before the european council in december so that we can convey our point of view to it. ladies and gentlemen, issues such as turkey's accession give our parliament every reason to exist. it's an opportunity to be protagonists and not spectators. it can be that kind of big decision where the two sources of legitimacy don't match, where the opinion of the governments is one and the opinion of the people, the citizens, is another. it is a great opportunity to discuss the kind of europe we want to make, and the consequences of doing it one way or another. we therefore expect the commission to produce an objective report so that this house, like the council, can make its political judgement with full clarity on the consequences of one or another decision - such as yes or no to the constitution - the implications for the union of turkey's accession, and the consequences of its rejection for our relations with the islamic world. parliament must approach this debate far from spontaneous reflections or preconceived ideas, and must place it in a strategic perspective and a medium-term horizon. because we must be aware, and i am sure we are, that the most important challenge facing the europe of the future is its relationship with the islamic world, and that relationship goes through iraq, afghanistan and palestine. but it is also based on a new neighbourhood policy, on the euro-mediterranean partnership, and on the integration of migration into our cities. there are 10 million muslims in europe and in the world, one billion. whatever our decision, it is our responsibility to show the muslim world that we do not draw our borders according to the clash of civilizations that some are bent on provoking. as a contribution to our debate, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out that i have received a report prepared for the commission by a committee of experts, including three distinguished members of our institution, who have been kind enough to present it to the european parliament and whose reading i would advise. we must also, before the end of the year, take a decision on the financial perspective, the initial draft of which has already been drawn up by the commission and will be submitted to us shortly. it is obvious that the union's financial resources must be commensurate with our ambitions and respond to the expectations that enlargement has generated in many citizens and take account of the concerns that it has raised in others. the future financial package for 2007/2013 does not only contain budgetary proposals. it's not just a budget. it is the reference framework for a whole series of legislative proposals on the financing of agricultural policy, the structural funds, youth programmes, transeuropean networks ... virtually all our legislative work will be conditioned by the way this framework is adopted. we will have a key role to play in the adoption of a legislative package, which will consist of more than 50 proposals, which will have to be adopted in codecision or in assent. this is a great opportunity to show that this is not a box of crickets singing to the moon, but a collective of people making decisions on very concrete and very transcendent issues. it will be a unique opportunity for this parliament to make its political priorities known, and that is what the europeans will have to understand if we succeed in translating our jargon into a language that is part of their daily lives. to help this, i have proposed to the conference of presidents, and the house will decide on this today, the creation of an ad hoc temporary committee to start this debate by integrating all the points of view from which it must be analysed. the budgetary summit is where all the spokes of the european wheel come together and we must analyse it in a complex and comprehensive way, and for that i think an ad hoc committee, presided over perhaps by the president of parliament himself, would be a clear message of the importance we attach to this task. and we must not forget that the financial perspective is part of a set of other elements of our policies which europeans hear about all the time and which i doubt they will ever fully understand. i am referring to the stability pact - stability of what, of prices, but why only of prices? - and to the lisbon strategy. in 2005, five years will have passed since the union decided to set itself the objective of 'becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion'. doesn't that sound like a phrase that's starting to sound like a ritual? that all the political transcendence it contains has not been followed by a democratic debate that gave it the soul it needs to grow? let us recognize that the lisbon objectives are not being met, and it seems that they will not be met by 2010. and this parliament must raise its voice of concern in the face of a transcendental objective for the life of the union which we continue to proclaim ritually and perhaps not sufficiently analyze on which path we are on to achieve it. we shall invite mr kok to present the report he has been asked to draw up on the failures of the process and its future prospects. i think that parliament should encourage its debate on this report. it must be acknowledged that very ambitious objectives were set in lisbon, formulated in a time of economic prosperity (the year 2000), shortly before the crisis began and terrorism accelerated it, and that they were the subject of an intergovernmental process which leaves it to the good will of the member states to implement them through a method of coordination, which should be strengthened. in this period, we know that investment in technology is low compared to the united states, that it continues to drain our best brains, and that's probably something we have to debate intensely. our human capital formation is not what we decided in lisbon it should be. this lisbon process coincides with the increased importance of environmental policies. kyoto will put european society under the same kind of stress as the maastricht criteria, changing its modes of production and consumption in ways that our citizens may not yet be sufficiently aware of. we are in favour of this, but we will have to see what it entails and fulfil the obligation that comes with it. and as regards the proposals for reform of the stability and growth pact, although our powers in this area are limited, i believe that this parliament must make an effort of political imagination to put it at the service of the lisbon strategy and, more generally, to introduce more democratic debate into the broad guidelines of economic policy in europe. this is where we must do it, by involving the national parliaments so that they feel involved in the european decisions which frame the budgetary deliberations in each country. in this respect, i welcome the arrival of mr euro, mr junker, because it is true that we had a problem in europe: a demand for greater coordination of economic policies. we will obviously have to analyse the role of our union in the world and, in particular, pay attention to transatlantic relations. i think the time has come to demonstrate the maturity and responsibility of the parliamentary diplomacy of this house by seeking greater coordination with the commission and the council in our international work. ladies and gentlemen of the house. the eu is a benchmark for the other regions of the world. the 'european dream' (should we speak of a european dream?) of its founding fathers, the dream of reconciling and uniting the continent, is now a reality. and in becoming reality, it has lost its power of democratic enchantment, it has lost its ability to mobilize wills and to create active consensus. is it possible to imagine another 'european dream' for a more diverse europe? is it possible to imagine another 'european dream' for a europe that is not the one envisioned by the founding fathers or the six countries that initiated it? is it possible to bring about an ideal of civilization, based on inclusion, with which to confront intolerance, rejection of immigrants, ethnic strife and religious intolerance? i think that this parliament should contribute to all this, because most of the citizens we represent here know, or at least intuit, that no country can face globalisation, environmental imbalances, the emergence of continental states, terrorist threats or poverty and the immigration it produces alone. ladies and gentlemen, the citizens' hour has struck in europe. i would like to join you in mobilizing your peoples and in giving your societies a new impetus to make this new european dream a reality. thank you very much and good work.
thank you very much, mrs belohorská. the presidency takes note of all your comments, which will be examined by the working party responsible for ensuring the proper and equal functioning of this parliament.
the commission's statement on the situation in belarus is to be considered in accordance with the agenda.
the presidency considers that there is no need to open a debate on this. this matter has been decided before. there has never been a debate in this parliament on the calendar of sessions. it has been tabled and therefore the presidency does not consider it appropriate to accept the motion for a resolution tabled by mr pannella. we now come to the vote on the 2005 agenda, which has not been amended. (parliament adopted the agenda)
i am sorry, mr dover, but this is a vote that took place without debate and in this case the explanations of vote should have been in writing in accordance with the rules of procedure. i beg you to understand. we'll make sure you can do it next time. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a very important one. as with any political agreement reached after long discussions between the governments of the 25 member states, the result of its first reading is meritorious, worthy of consideration, but, in our view, completely inadequate. the council has taken a strictly accounting approach in its first reading. if parliament were to accept - and i am not going to accept - this view of the council in its present form, we would be faced with the triumph of national accounts over european policy, and i do not think that would be good for the union or for the member states that make it up. we in the european parliament are well aware of the national budgetary constraints that are inherent in insufficient economic growth, and we know that the stability pact imposes very clear rules on the containment of budget deficits. but the figures are clear: in recent years national budgets have grown by 22%, while the community budget has grown by 9% over the same period. that is to say, austerity and budgetary rigor are a plant that grows much better in the european parliament than, sometimes, in the national parliaments themselves. we in the european parliament - and this rapporteur too - know that community policies have a high added value in terms of growth and employment, whether in the structural funds, research or external cooperation, to name a few. we fear that the council's approach at first reading is simply to create artificial margins in categories which do not correspond to the real needs of the union, nor to the commitments made to third parties, nor even to the political will expressed annually in the budgetary vote in december. in general, in order to give a more reasoned opinion on the european parliament's reaction to this council draft, the rapporteur prefers to wait until the amendments have been adopted in the committees responsible and in the political groups. i would like to make a few points, however. firstly, as the general rapporteur, i assume that the reduction of the ceilings in the categories must be a condition for the union budget. the european commission had already incorporated this reduction in its preliminary draft budget and, in general - though not in all respects - we share the commission's analysis. the margins created by the commission in categories 3, 4 and 5 are, politically, much more realistic than the margins created by the council, which is a paradox. secondly, the situation of the agencies. it is time for the council to face up to an undeniable fact: decentralised agencies need sufficient funds to get started and to function normally. if the political decision to create agencies is made, the political decision to maintain them must be made. the council's position is inconsistent here, and the rapporteur is prepared to propose innovative solutions to resolve once and for all this double political language between commitments and compliance. thirdly, the question of payment appropriations. to keep it below 1% of the union's gross national income - something so desired by some member states - the council has cut eur 4.3 billion. commitments outstanding at 31 july amounted to eur 122 billion. in relative terms, the categories with the most outstanding amounts to be liquidated are, in this order, 7, 4 and 2, the latter being the largest by volume. any responsible institution would want to put an end to this situation. the n+2 rule mentioned by the commissioner was created to improve implementation and accelerate project completion. to absorb this ral (residual liquidation) would require an increase in payments not a decrease, unless simply savings for national treasuries are sought. since the 2000 budget, €44.5 billion has been returned to member states in unspent appropriations - more than the entire 2005 budget in structural funds - and this return should not be seen as a saving for anyone. to return appropriations to member states because they have not been able to spend them is to waste the added value of spending on community policies which have been adopted to contribute to growth and employment in the union. ladies and gentlemen, this is the first real budget with 25 member states. the union has more challenges to meet and more needs to meet than in previous years. it is the responsibility of the three institutions and of course of this rapporteur to do more with the money we need than in other years. i wish the three institutions a successful dialogue and i would like to acknowledge the good spirit shown so far by the dutch presidency. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i have been in this chamber since before question time began. i submitted my question in the month of july and i have been waiting and listening to every question. we are not to blame for the commissioners' excessive length of time on the floor. i want to put my question and i want to hear the commissioner's answer.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the humanitarian situation in sudan.
mr president, the situation of tension in sudan has been known for many years, not just one. once again we are experiencing a humanitarian drama which, in fact, is masking a political drama. it is precisely this drama that must be faced: a humanitarian emergency, which may be even worse, is still to come. according to estimates by many ngos, between 100 000 and 350 000 people could die from widespread famine. this requires us to take swift action and i therefore welcome the fact that both the council and the commission are taking action in this direction. it is necessary to continue humanitarian aid, it is necessary to put pressure on the khartoum government to disarm the militias and, if that implies the need for sanctions, they must be imposed. the number of international observers, specifically african, must also be increased. i would like to draw attention to the importance of emphasizing the need to address the political causes of the country's poverty, which have allowed the authoritarian regime in khartoum to exist for many years and which have also allowed, among other things, european countries such as the united kingdom, spain and cyprus to export arms to that country in violation of the arms code of conduct, which means that we must put the need for a review of this process on the table and again demand a complete embargo on this issue from the united nations.
council. mr president, the european union and the council of ministers are deeply conscious of the worsening situation. we are following the situation very closely and i share your concerns. i have listened very carefully to the suggestions you have made and to your calls for action. i also agree with those speakers who have stressed the fact that what we need is a political solution, not a military solution. military force would only lead to further bloodshed and we want to avoid that. it is in that context that we believe that the african union, which has taken the lead, should continue to be in the driver's seat. at the same time, however, we see how important it is that a cohesive and coherent effort be undertaken so that the african union, together with the united nations, the european union and the united states, exert increasing pressure on the sudanese government as we have done from the beginning - notably as the dutch government, but also as the european union over these past months. we will also continue to push the african union to implement the suggestions that have been made by the united nations. i listed a number of possibilities: increase the number of observers, increase the military force supporting these observers, increase the civilian presence, send a police force - even a european union police force, if the african union asks for one. it is very important that we cooperate very closely and that the african union tries to find an african solution to an african problem. we must lend all the support we can muster. i believe that we should follow a twin-track approach on the calls for action. on the one hand, i share the feelings of all those who have said that continued, strong diplomatic pressure on the government of sudan is an absolute requirement. we have done this and will continue to do so in the context of the meetings we have. for example, next week we have a meeting the united nations. i have also met with ministers: at the end of july i invited minister ismail to the netherlands. there was a strong exchange of words on the situation. promises were made, but - as we have seen - they were not kept. that is why there should also be another track, and that track, as many of you have said, consists of sanctions. the european union is currently examining all the possibilities for imposing sanctions very carefully, but we think that sanctions should be effective. they should really hit the government and they should also be all­encompassing, so, together with the commission and the council secretariat, we are drafting a comprehensive review of which sanctions are possible. among those sanctions, we are considering an oil boycott, an arms embargo and many other possibilities to make it crystal clear to the sudanese government that we mean business. on the other hand - as commissioner nielson mentioned - we should not forget that humanitarian aid is of the essence. if one talks to mr lubbers or mr pronk - as i have recently - it is very obvious that one aspect is the situation in respect of the sudanese government. the other aspect pertains to the humanitarian aid situation, which is terrible at the moment. there too, the european union is doing everything it can. as far as mrs bonino's suggestion on the international criminal court is concerned, you will understand that i wholeheartedly agree with this. the international criminal court with its seat in the hague is something we endorse whenever we can. however, we should not forget that what we need first, in the united nations, is to discuss the situation on the basis of mr pronk's report. subsequently, the united nations security council should make a request, and then we can act to initiate proceedings in the international criminal court. i can only repeat that we are very concerned about the situation. we take everything you have said into account and take it very seriously. we are deeply aware of the suffering of the people there and of what has happened. whether you call it genocide or not, the situation is very serious. we have to be willing to take action. in the meantime, we are waiting for the outcome of the discussions that are to take place shortly in the united nations.
commission. mr president, i would warn against jumping into the terminology of genocide. at the moment there is no authoritative evidence that this is the correct way of characterising the events in question. this is an impossible discussion because, once the word is there, any attempt to clarify and analyse it is only seen as an attempt to cover what it looks or sounds like, an attempt to make it easy to understand. this is very serious: rushing to use certain words, and acting and speaking as if these words are the actual facts, is not the way to clarify to the public that what we see is unacceptable and has to be stopped. taking that step and using certain terminology at this stage can be, in my opinion, problematic. we need to establish the facts, and i expect this to happen. there is a risk here that myself and others are seen to be taking this matter too lightly. even with that risk, i would like to make the point that in relation to the tradition of impunity in these matters, i find it important that the african union has been encouraged to do something and is not sitting passively waiting for the government to comply. the african union is totally publicly committed to putting pressure on the government, and at the moment is making an effort to increase its engagement in darfur, both quantitatively and qualitatively in terms of the mandate. this needs to be supported. it is a new experience for the so-called international community to be able to relate to and support something like this, which we have never encountered before in an african crisis. we need to do more. the un's role is absolutely essential. the commitment throughout africa, via the african union, to use the newly created peace and security council has created a basis for the un to act. without this there would have been little grounds for optimism. even that word is perhaps out of place in this instance. what can we do to exert maximum pressure? i still have not signed the country strategy paper for sudan. more than eur 400 million is available via unspent funds – which could not be used for normal development cooperation activities during the many years of fighting between north and south – and new money from the ninth edf. this large amount of money cannot be made available until we see a comprehensive peace agreement. it is a political fact of life, which comes as no surprise anywhere - not here and not in khartoum - that the situation in darfur must be seen as part of any definition of peace in the country. this pressure is a major element in our effort to push things in a better direction. in the coming year we will face not only the demands relating to humanitarian aid, but we will also have to prepare to secure the livelihoods of the people whom we hope to assist in returning to their homes as soon as possible.
thank you very much, commissioner. i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the composition of the parliamentary committees - the composition of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and delegations: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 8 p.m.)
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the beslan hostage crisis and massacre and the fight against terrorism.
mr president, what happened in beslan fundamentally confirms that islamist terrorism is already the main problem affecting and will affect the coexistence of europeans. it is not just an emerging problem, but we have to have the conviction that it will be a growing problem. the greatest risk we europeans face in this phenomenon is that european citizens will interpret inaction, paralysis, doing nothing as the fundamental identifier of our inaction. that is the biggest risk, the biggest difficulty: not knowing how to deal with this terrible risk from our own principles, convictions and values. from my personal experience, in dealing with a terrorist scourge, the first, the most important - in my opinion - the definitive thing is awareness, awareness of the seriousness of the problem. legislative and operational measures will be important, but the most important thing is awareness. this awareness has a twofold perspective: firstly, we must dare to put the fight against terrorism at the top of the list of priorities, at the top of all problems. that is why we must say, reiterate and affirm in all the union's documents, in all our public statements: terrorism is the main problem. today i dare to say that the main shortcoming in the european union's counter-terrorism policy is not a lack of measures and initiatives, but that we do not sufficiently identify terrorism as the main problem facing europeans. secondly, the second objective of awareness is the conviction that we can defeat this phenomenon. we cannot begin to fight terrorism without being sure, from the moral strength of our convictions, that we can defeat terrorism. terrorism is essentially fear, it creates fear. and that fear of failure that we have when we face a problem of this nature is the first thing we have to know how to overcome and then defeat the terrorist organization. it takes time to combat a terrorist phenomenon. there are no shortcuts, no magic solutions. but the conviction has to be present in each and every one of us from the very beginning. the fight against terrorism is neither left-wing nor right-wing; it is essentially a moral imperative. that is why i think we have to devote more time, more monograph sessions in this parliament to tackling terrorism. i think we must reiterate more often that terrorism is the main problem facing europeans and we must encourage a debate between governments to find out in certain circumstances, when there are attacks close to elections, what defence instruments those governments have, delaying or not holding elections, to prevent terrorists from achieving their objectives. in short, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we have a moral imperative of the first order. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'it was our principles that led us to confront terrorism firmly and without compromise, because terror is the greatest denial of individual freedoms, because it is an attack on the very foundations of democratic coexistence, because we must defend ourselves against those whose fundamental aim is our destruction. "i have borrowed these words from a victim of terror, who spoke them last week in berlin to a sensitive and committed audience. i want, mr president, my first gesture to be one of solidarity with the victims of beslan, an emotional gesture of compassion and shared grief. nothing justifies terror, there is no possible cause to justify terror. killing, murdering children, murdering parents of children, murdering teachers of children is the highest exponent of the most miserable of human behaviors. the victims were tortured for 52 hours and then killed. these are the indisputable facts. shamil basaev, who planned and authorized the attack, is not a leader for chechen independence, he is a child murderer, an inhuman terrorist who has sown innocent corpses on russian soil. this is a fact and it is the lethal sequence of indisputable facts of indiscriminate terrorism. i therefore express my most emphatic and committed condemnation of this episode which degrades the human condition to the point of no limits. we are witnessing an unprecedented qualitative leap in the spiral of terror. i express my support for the russian authorities so that they can arrest and bring to trial soon those responsible for this horrible attack, and i assure everyone that i am not an emotional theorist. i have visited chechnya and ingushetia; i have visited chechen refugee camps; i have spoken twice with kalamanov; i know the complexity of the political problem and i know the human rights violations of the parties involved; i also know what politkovskaya has said. i have known terror very closely in my own country, less than five centimetres, and i say with democratic conviction that these savages cannot be given any advantage. they take advantage of our doubts and turn the part of our debates that suits them into their own argument. i ask you for the democratic capacity to identify the problem clearly and to fight it with determination and without any qualms. i ask you to revive the debate on europol, to review un security council resolution 1333 and to implement the european agency for the management of external borders.
i need advice. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first speaker said that it is easy to speak when one agrees with previous speakers. i can wholeheartedly endorse that after listening to what you have said here today and i also thank you for the support that has often been expressed for the programme as i have unfolded it. i was also struck by the image that commissioner pätten created of the fact that when we go to fight terrorism, we have, in a sense, a hand tied behind our back. but i would also like to say, that means two things, that we have to strengthen the hand we have left, but at the same time we also have a mouth to intensify the dialogue. i think that in particular, and this is in line with what i said to you at the beginning, there are two elements. on the one hand, we must protect ourselves in the fight against terrorism, but on the other hand, it is very important that we work together. i think we have to keep those two elements in mind. i have outlined to you the ways in which we want to strengthen our cooperation. first of all, cooperation within the european union, because i believe that if we are able to do that, if we make it clear - as i have tried to make it clear to you - that by strengthening the pooling of information, by adjusting our legislation, by combating the financing of terrorism, that if we can show in that way that we can organize that better among the twenty-five, then i think we can also set a precedent in that way, that we can take forward in our contacts with the rest of the world. it has been said many times here, it is a global fight, but a global fight also requires a global response. it is also in this context that the european union is active. i have mentioned a number of measures. i have told you that we are working to strengthen, strengthen and intensify our contacts with the third world countries. for example, i would like to point out the forthcoming asem summit, where we will also be discussing this aspect with the asian world. how can we together combat terrorism? what are the instruments at our disposal? how can we better integrate our information, so to speak? i am also aware of the fact that, in the recent trips i have made, attacks have also occurred in asia, and i have noticed how much this is alive in the asian world, that there is also an increasing willingness to cooperate in the spirit that we would like to see. it has also been said that it is important that we work more closely with the united states, with russia. i have tried to explain in my opening remarks how we are trying to achieve this. we are constantly working on this, both with the united states and with russia, and i would like to correct a misunderstanding here which was emphasized by mrs flautre, among others, when she said that i was retracting something i had said earlier. i don't think that's the case. i have been very clear in my contacts with russia and i have said, and i will read it in english: we will use the regular dialogue that we have with russia to discuss how to proceed. it is important that there is dialogue but at the same time that we make clear what our values are. because again i'm going to take up the image of the hand tied behind the back. i believe that's why we need to emphasize more strongly what our values are, why we fight terrorism. it is for our own democracy, our own belief in human rights, in respect for minorities, and i am referring to chechnya, that we can uphold this and we must do it together, and we need everyone's support for this. i can only say again that i thank you for the support expressed today. i can also tell you that the presidency will be actively working in the coming months to continue with vigour the programme which i have unfolded and which i believe was quite comprehensive and covers many areas, but we will need the help of everyone. i was glad to hear that today. as usual, at the end of this term, at the end of its presidency, the presidency will report on everything that has happened and what we have done. i also answer the question put by mr wiersma.
thank you very much, mr president-in-office of the council. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in iraq.
the council, the president-in-office, has for some time been very concerned about iraq, and this has also divided us. although we are concerned about developments in iraq, it is of the utmost importance that the european union continue to support the iraqi people and that we do not abandon the iraqi people, but rather continue to provide that support. the continuing violence is a matter of concern to us, but the past few months have also created scope for coherent and united eu support for iraq. i shall come to the question of what support the eu might possibly offer in a moment. but first, a quick look back, if you'll allow me. june in particular was an important month for the long-term future of iraq and the iraqi people. first, on 8 june the un security council adopted resolution 1546, and on 28 june the temporary occupation of iraq was ended and sovereignty restored. the inauguration of the allawi interim government marked a major turning point in the history of iraq. the new resolution also restored unity in the international community and, moreover, allowed for a renewed role for the un in iraq. this is certainly an important fact in view of the organisation of elections in january 2005. equally important, the developments in june made it possible to bridge the differences of opinion that had existed within the eu up to then on certain aspects of iraq policy. this was made clear in the conclusions of the first general foreign ministers' council under the dutch presidency in july. the council endorsed the european union medium term strategy of high representative solana and commissioner patten, as well as the commission communication on iraq the eu and iraq- a framework for engagement. these documents provide a clear framework for the european union's involvement in general and also in some details. in addition, as i said, these conclusions contain a number of very concrete points for action. the eu will actively cooperate with the un in iraq, and will engage in a dialogue with the iraqi authorities to see where the eu can further support iraq. to further investigate this, a reconnaissance mission has been sent to iraq. i'll get back to you on their findings in a moment. it is clear, in any case, that the eu needs to be involved in supporting the reconstruction of iraq and the internal iraqi political process. in this connection, the national conference must not remain unmentioned. despite the great difficulties in its preparation, this meeting was a success. all layers of iraqi society were represented, including many women. and finally, it was possible to reach agreement on the delegates who will sit in the national council. the formation of this council is an important step towards the elections. unfortunately, along with all this good news, there is also a lot of bad news. the abductions and murders of foreign citizens, including eu citizens, are a terrible example of this. our condolences go out to the victims and their families. but let us not forget that many iraqis are also victims of violence, especially those iraqis who have taken responsibility for the reconstruction of their country. the continuing attacks on oil pipelines are also a serious threat to the recovery of the iraqi economy. not only is iraqi society and economy threatened by the continuing violence, but so is the political process in iraq. the situation in fallujah is very worrying and the past few months have shown in najaf and baghdad that violence is bubbling under the surface and can erupt suddenly in the shiite parts of iraq as well. in this context, we welcome the recent agreement which was concluded in najaf. partly thanks to the courageous efforts of ayatollah al sistani, there is a prospect of restoring order and security in najaf under the leadership of the iraqi interim government. let us hope that this is a step towards better relations in iraq and improved security conditions. the fact is that sectarian violence is clearly not in the interests of the ordinary iraqi, whose country's reconstruction is being unnecessarily delayed by terrorism. the security situation is, of course, a determining factor in the extent to which the eu can effectively help in the reconstruction of iraq. and it's clear that that situation is not good right now. nevertheless, the dutch presidency has taken up the conclusions of the general affairs council in july and this has already led to greater eu involvement in the political process in iraq. i myself visited iraq in august to underline the european union's support for the economic, social and political reconstruction of iraq. i have therefore held talks with the president, the prime minister and the foreign minister. i also had a meeting with representatives of the united nations in iraq. all iraqi interlocutors underlined the importance they attach to a clear and visible eu role in iraq. in this connection, they advocated the opening of a commission office in baghdad. i also expressed, on behalf of the eu, our concern about the reintroduction of the death penalty in iraq. mr allawi, who had recently visited iraq's neighbours, stressed the importance of stability in iraq for the region as a whole. i said that the eu was keen to help with regional security and stability. i also told him that an invitation to the eu to participate in the next neighbourhood conference would be very much appreciated. the eu is already regularly addressing the responsibility of iraq's neighbours. the un representatives during my visit indicated that eu support for their activities is vital, especially as regards the electoral process. i also introduced the eu reconnaissance mission to iraq. this scouting mission has now returned. delegates from the presidency, the commission and the council secretariat examined the possibilities for concrete involvement of the european union in the context of civilian crisis management in the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. the mission held talks not only with the iraqi authorities but also with representatives of the united nations, the united states, nato, the multinational force and the electoral commission. the mission concluded that the following activities could be considered: - i will summarise these areas briefly with your permission: first of all, police training. secondly, in the area of the rule of law and human rights: training of judges and prosecutors; technical assistance for the establishment of an iraqi special tribunal; forensic expertise and assistance in exhuming victims from mass graves; assistance in setting up a national centre for human rights and democracy; education in the legal field. thirdly, the civil service; capacity building in various ministries and in the prison system. fourth, the elections: election assistance and observation. fifthly, development of arms export control legislation, demobilisation programmes for militias and support for the property committee. all in all, there are plenty of areas where the eu can act. it is important that the activities undertaken by the eu respond to real iraqi needs, add value and complement any activities that may already exist. in addition, synergies between eu instruments and activities should be closely monitored. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. it is now important that a fact-finding mission be sent to iraq to give a more concrete picture of the possibilities for action by the european union. the council secretariat, in consultation with the commission and the presidency, will begin to plan such a mission. i would also like to mention the importance of the un presence in iraq, which, as i have already said, is very important, especially in view of the elections. if the un is to function properly, it is vital that there is adequate protection. resolution 1546 provides for this. the secretary-general of the united nations has asked the governments of the eu to make a financial contribution to the second ring of protection, the so-called un protection force. it has been shown that the member states attach importance to an eu contribution to this. the presidency is currently working hard to ensure that this contribution from the european union is made. to this end, the member states will be invited to contribute and the possibility of a contribution from the cfp budget will be examined. finally, i would like to inform you that i have invited prime minister allawi to attend the european council on 5 november. i hope that by then we will be able to make a concrete offer of aid to iraq in the reconstruction of the country. (applause from the left)
commission. it is almost exactly five years since i appeared in this parliament for my confirmation hearings as a commissioner. since then i have been fortunate to take part in literally scores of debates – more, i am told, than any other commissioner: such is parliament’s interest in external relations. i would like to thank parliament and its members for the courtesy that i have invariably been shown. i have enjoyed coming here. it is important, in my view, to try to establish democratic roots for foreign policy. it is not an area of public policy to be left to the diplomatic experts, whose record is at best somewhat patchy. anyway, as i ride off into the sunset, i should like to record my appreciation for parliament’s role in developing, not by leaps and bounds but – perhaps inevitably – by lurches and shuffles, europe’s common external relations policy. the worst shambles to have overwhelmed us in the last five years has, of course, been the row over iraq. i do not want to go back over old arguments. if we needed reminding that you cannot have a common policy if the larger member states are deeply divided, then here was the evidence. other evidence also speaks eloquently for itself. as someone once said, 'stuff happens'. is the world today safer than before the overthrow of the appalling saddam? is global terrorism in retreat? are we closer to building bridges between islam and the west? is the world’s only superpower more widely respected? have the citizens in our democracies been treated in a way that will encourage them to give governments the benefit of the doubt next time they are told that force needs to be used pre-emptively to deal with an imminent threat? i simply pose the questions. honourable members will have their own answers. but here we are: saddam overthrown, violence raging across much of the liberated land, the regime changed, with an interim government preparing the way for democratic elections. whatever our past criticisms, we are all now up to our ears in this endeavour. if iraq goes badly, we all suffer. so we have to try to work together to hold the democratic project in one piece. what are we pledged to do as a union, leaving aside the contribution of individual member states? we have already pledged, and are working hard to deploy, eur 200 million this year. i very much hope that we will be able to secure agreement for a further eur 200 million for next year. we are developing a good record in disbursing this assistance, having paid more than eur 200 million into the united nations and world bank trust funds over the course of the past year. we are working well with the united nations and the world bank, helping to ensure that our resources are disbursed quickly and well. we have focused our assistance this year on three areas: on essential public services – health, education, water and sanitation; on poverty alleviation and the development of livelihoods; and on governance and civil society. i would not pretend, however, that all is well. how could i? the hazardous security climate – evident not least in the appalling series of kidnappings, most recently of humanitarian workers dedicated to the wellbeing of iraqis, and evident also in yesterday’s appalling atrocity in baghdad – obviously limits the pace of disbursement, as does the fact that we are working with an interim government that is still feeling its way in public administration. that is life – at least in iraq – and we will continue to do our utmost within the constraints of the situation on the ground. what i can say, firmly, is that i am convinced that our decision to take the multilateral, trust fund route was absolutely the right one. a comparison of our disbursement rate with that of other bilateral donors, including the largest donor of all, only confirms this. when we proposed to parliament committing eur 200 million to the reconstruction of iraq, bringing to over eur 300 million the amount we will spend in 2003-2004, some honourable members argued that we were being parsimonious. they argued that we should do more: they suggested that we should spend at least eur 500 million, though they were coy about telling us where the extra money should come from. this morning i was interested to read a report by the bbc from washington: 'the us administration wants to reallocate billions of reconstruction dollars for iraq and spend them instead on security and other short-term needs. us officials say this new strategy has emerged after months of review.' the report goes on: 'the shift is also being interpreted by critics as proof that grand long-term plans to reshape the economy just were not realistic. they also charge that the intensity and level of violent resistance was severely underestimated.' i think we were right in our judgment about the amount of money that we could sensibly put into iraq, and i think parliament was wise to support that judgment. in the coming months, we will continue to implement the proposals set out in our communication of 9 june, which has received widespread endorsement. in particular, we will focus on the essential issue of support to the electoral process. once the independent electoral commission and the united nations have identified exactly what they need, we stand ready to help – as i shall explain to the iraqi president when i meet him later today. but i should be clear that, under the current circumstances, we cannot and will not propose a conventional election observation mission – that would be simply impossible, as honourable members in this chamber who themselves have taken a lead in election observation missions will know. but we will seek ways to ensure that we play our full part in assisting free and fair elections in iraq. in the longer term, we will need to consider how best the commission can be represented on the ground. opening a delegation would obviously be difficult, expensive and potentially dangerous. but we are prepared to consider that route, if it is clear that it would add to our effectiveness in helping the iraqi people. so let me be blunt: we will work for a better future in iraq whatever the bitterness of past disputes. there is, though, one other general point that i would like to make, triggered by these reflections on iraq. i hope that the house will be generous to me in allowing me to stray a little on what is, almost certainly, my last outing in this mother of parliaments. when, just over two years ago, some of us expressed concerns that the united states was abandoning the sort of multilateralism which had characterised its foreign and security policy since the second world war, we were strongly criticised. america, we were assured, still wished to work with allies, provided they shared washington’s view of how to cope with a dangerous world, and by and large kept any reservations to themselves. some allies did indeed accompany america to baghdad, a venture not yet blessed – as we have noted – with the easy and benign consequences that were famously predicted and promised. liberation rapidly turned into an occupation – or what was seen as an occupation – bitterly resisted, with atrocity after atrocity. democracy failed to roll out like an oriental carpet across the thankless deserts of the middle east. above all, peace in jerusalem and palestine was not accomplished by victory in baghdad. so, partly because american neo-conservative unilateralism had clearly failed to establish an empire of peace, liberty and democracy, we have been more recently advised that allies and multilateralism were back in fashion in washington. even the united nations was deemed to have its uses. vivat the state department. all done and dusted then? sighs of relief all round? can we now look forward to the restoration of that old-fashioned notion that allies have to be led not bossed, and that multilateral institutions have their important uses, even for the world’s only super-power – that, pace machiavelli, there is much to be said for being admired and not just feared? the rhetoric of the present united states election campaign inevitably raises a few questions. i do not seek to take sides. america elects its president and its congress. the rest of the world looks on. we in europe should work as well as we can with whoever wins. we are not partisans in the process, whatever our private opinions. moreover, i am not so naïve as to confuse campaign rhetoric with a platonic dialogue. i have, after all, been a party chairman myself. but campaign rhetoric reflects something and what is reflected here is pretty unsettling. if you want to get a cheap cheer from certain quarters in america, it seems that all you have to do is to bash the united nations, or the french, or the very idea that allies are entitled to have their own opinions. multilateralists, we are told, want to outsource american foreign and security policy to a bunch of garlic chewing, cheese eating wimps. the opinions of mankind, which the founding fathers of the united states thought their country should note and respect, are to be treated with contempt unless, i suppose, they faithfully reflect the agenda of the american enterprise institute and fox tv. what are we to make of all this? first, multilateralism is, above all, in the best interests of the united states, a point which previous administrations would not have questioned and most political leaders would have subscribed to for the past 60 years. second, surely the national interest of the superpower is to put its traditional allies on the spot, not challenging their right to consultation, but probing what they have to say and how they intend to turn their rhetoric about cooperation into effective, not effete, multilateralism. how, to take one obvious point, do we intend to go about not just draining the swamps in which terrorism breeds – to borrow the cliche – but also shooting some of the crocodiles? further, how and when will we in europe countenance the use of force to support the international rule of law? that is a question which we in europe regularly duck. if the political culture of american exceptionalism excludes the notion of working with and talking to foreigners, if unpopularity overseas is taken as a mark of distinction, a source of pride, too many europeans will make the mirror-image mistake of thinking that sniping at america is the same as having a european foreign and security policy. what i worry about most is that on either side of the atlantic we will bring out the worst in our traditional partners. the world deserves better than testosterone on one side and superciliousness on the other. american and european citizens deserve better, too. after all, they face the same dangers and the same challenges. i want a europe which is a super-partner not a super-sniper – a super-partner of a respected global leader. any alternative to that offers only the prospect of a more perilous and more querulous future. (loud applause)
mr president, apart from the stabilization, rehabilitation, reconstruction and democratization of iraq, which are tasks which i believe should be the responsibility not only of the united states but also of the entire international democratic community, i understand that there is an immediate and urgent priority at the moment, which has not been explicitly referred to by the presidency of the council, the release of the french journalists, mr malbrunot and mr chesnot, and their syrian driver, and also of the italian collaborators, mrs torreta and mrs pari. we are concerned, mr president-in-office of the council, about what you said about the council interpreting these events as sad news and we are concerned about your statement yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs that the council has decided that the best thing to do is to do nothing, which is, in my view, proof of the european union's impotence. how concerned we are, mr president-in-office of the council, that the council of ministers has decided at first reading not to use the flexibility instrument to finance the priority for iraq, contrary to the proposal of the commission and this parliament. i hope that this council position will be a tactical one and that it will be corrected at second reading. but technicalities aside, mr president, yesterday was another tragic day in baghdad, with dozens of dead. i think that the previous debate this morning made it clear that we cannot and must not remain indifferent to the phenomenon of terrorism, that terrorism affects us all equally and that the response must be that of all equally. therefore, we must be strongly united against terrorism. the best response of this parliament to the terrorist phenomenon is to be united in the resolution that the house is going to adopt tomorrow on iraq. i believe that the best contribution - apart from the proposals which the commission has developed in its draft initiative - to guaranteeing peace, understanding, reconciliation and harmony in iraq, with a view to the elections which will take place in january, is to stand together. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing on behalf of my political group our appreciation for the presence of mr patten as coordinator of my group when he was appointed commissioner and our thanks for his constant availability and for the positive and constructive attitude which mr patten has always had towards this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. is there any comment?
thank you, mr tannock, your remark will be entered in the minutes, which will be corrected to reflect exactly what has happened. (the minutes were approved)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the stability and growth pact.
mr president, i am speaking in support of the commission communication entitled 'strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation of the stability and growth pact'. it is important to return to economic governance because what we are experiencing comes from the maastricht treaty, in which the decision on economic and monetary union was taken: monetary union was described and implemented, economic union not so much. and the stability pact, which is now about ten years old, was conceived out of a certain distrust of certain countries that seemed not to be able to pass the test. the capacity of the european union to create shows that those who were the examiners are now the most virtuous and, curiously, those who imposed virtue are the ones who have sinned the most. in short, this gives hope for the construction of europe. since then, we have introduced the euro, we have decided on the lisbon strategy, we have drawn up a constitution - i would like to recall that all the government representatives went to the working group of the convention to oppose the development of economic governance. the stability and growth pact must therefore be revised and updated, because in many respects it is not working - especially in the growth aspect - and because we have had to go to the court of justice to have some states apply it. i think that is what justifies both the commission's action - which we clearly support - and the council's positive reaction, because just as the european central bank has to be monetarist, the council has to be concerned with the functioning of the economy.
council. i am very grateful that you have given me the opportunity to say a few words now. i apologise for leaving earlier but the problem is that i am not only president-in-office of the council and netherlands minister of finance, i am also replacing the prime minister at the moment because he is in hospital. i have many obligations to fulfil. after listening to all the statements it is clear that there is a wide variety of opinion in parliament. i am not surprised by that. maybe we can reach some consensus here. as president-in-office of the council i must be very careful in expressing my views because i have not had an opportunity to check whether all my 24 colleagues agree with my answers to some of the remarks made. let me pick out a few themes. first of all, as asked by various speakers, why did we have problems with the pact? the basic mistake in the past has been that we did not make use the good times for consolidation. i believe that both mr poettering and mr klinz said a few words in that regard. my colleagues in france and germany also concluded that if they had been in surplus or in balance before the downswing started, they would not have breached the 3% limit and all these troubles would not have arisen. i think that is an important consensus. those who now criticise the pact for its rigidity are probably not the same people who advocated more rigid consolidation in the good times. perhaps they felt that the good times were so nice that we could spend even more than the governments planned. that is my experience, at least. we must be consistent during the entire cycle. if we consolidate firmly in good times then we can be more relaxed when the economic cycle takes a downturn. stablilisation over the entire cycle – that is one of the lessons learned. i hope, as i am sure you do, that we are now at the start of the upward part of the cycle. if we use that time well, the inevitable downturn will not, once again, lead us to the problems that we have previously encountered. we do not need any change to the text of the pact in that regard. as has been remarked by some speakers, the stability and growth pact is not a solution to everything. we also have the lisbon process. i do not believe that there has to be tension between the stability pact and the lisbon process. mr schulz spoke of this tension. personally, i do not believe that low deficits, the fact that the deficits were not high enough, are the real problem in relation to the lack of growth in europe. we have to look at the necessary reforms and also set the right priorities in our budgets, so that we really spend the money within a budgetary framework and on the issues that are important for the lisbon process. i must point out that if we were more relaxed on deficits, interest payments would gradually crowd out other expenditure, such as expenditure on r&d and education, which we all want. in the medium and long term, higher deficits are certainly not a solution for any lisbon objective. they may even conflict with the lisbon objectives. a few of you were a bit afraid of an ad hoc approach, that we would not apply equal treatment to all the countries based on clear criteria. we discussed that in the council and stated that we need a rules-based system for the future. there were some questions about the golden rule. as such, the golden rule is a pro-cyclical system. it was used in the 19th century in many countries. i do not think it would be good for economics today. other questions were asked about the role of mr juncker. he will be president of the euro group. there are some advantages to having a longer-term president, who will also be its face vis-a-vis the outside world, for example in the g-7. if people see a new minister of finance come from the euro group every six months, it will not make a very strong impression. such a president also organise and plan for a longer period than just six months. i hope that in the coming weeks and months we can work further on this issue. as i said, the commission proposals are a good basis for discussion. they will probably not be accepted lock, stock and barrel, but i do not think the commission ever expected that. we already have some basis for consensus in the paper i presented to you today. i hope that we will get full consensus on an operational pact that is really implemented.
mr president, commissioner almunia has given a masterful performance of shakespeare. as in the funeral oration of mark antony, it sings a song of austerity but at the same time it announces that it has laid the necessary burdens to blow up the pillars on which it stands. the commissioner is advocating simple rules, but at the same time he is telling us that we will have to take account of the national circumstances of each country, which means that there will be 25 different rules. what we said yesterday about the stability pact is still true today. it is absolutely true that the austerity pact must be maintained in order to maintain price stability; that budgetary austerity serves to free up resources for education, research and development to make the lisbon process possible; and, above all, that it is necessary to deal with the implicit, hidden, unbudgeted obligations arising from the ageing of the population. what we said yesterday is still true today. and if we are saying different things today, it is simply because we are giving up the stability pact. the stability pact was good, its breach was bad. secondly, commissioner, all those who have always been in the stability pact are those who have today applauded its measures and all those who have always been in favour of the stability pact are those who are against the flexibility, inequality and discretion which the commission proposes. thirdly, commissioner, the applause of the governments is not a disinterested applause. the stability pact is not a pro-government pact, it is a pact against governments, to limit the action of governments, to prevent them from sterilizing the actions of the central bank and to maintain price stability. and if it is a pact against governments and in favour of the citizens - and i agree with what the chairman of the committee has said - it will have the support of my group to strengthen the powers of the commission, as opposed to the council, and the powers of parliament, as the representative of the citizens, to defend that budgetary stability which will enable the citizens to enjoy lower prices, lower interest rates with which to pay their mortgages and which will serve to guarantee our pensioners that in the future we will have resources to meet their needs, which we will not have wasted by paying interest and paying off debt. the epp group will be with the commissioner in that debate. but if the aim is to establish rules of discretion, inequality and, in short, injustice in the application of the pact, recalling the principle 'pacta sunt servanda', the commissioner will not have us on his side.
the commission mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to this debate, sometimes in support, sometimes in criticism and sometimes simply in criticism. all of them seem to me extremely useful for the future development of my responsibilities as commissioner responsible for carrying out, in my area, this adaptation and improvement of the stability and growth pact and, in general, of economic governance, and they seem to me extremely useful for conveying arguments and objectives from parliament to public opinion on a matter as important as that concerning the economy of the member states of the union and of the european union as a whole. i would like to reiterate - as i did in my opening statement, as has been made clear in some speeches, but i want to repeat it in this final statement - that the treaty is not at issue, nor is what the treaty says about public finances and budgetary stability. the 3% of gdp ceiling for government deficits in the member states of the economic and monetary union and the 60% of gdp ceiling for government debt remain in force. countries which are not complying with these limits have the obligation and the commitment to do so. they are still in force, not by chance, but because one of the objectives of economic and monetary union must necessarily remain budgetary stability as a sine qua non for the effectiveness of the very important political decision we took when we launched economic and monetary union and, in particular, the creation of the single currency. and it is still necessary to preserve the objective of budgetary stability and those reference values through a system of rules - as has been said on many occasions throughout the debate. but it is also necessary to bear in mind that the ultimate objective of economic and monetary union, of budgetary stability of economic policies, is to ensure more growth and more welfare for some of our citizens. and some of you have expressed the view that a debate on the reform of the pact could even lead to some effect on the stability of our currency, the euro. i do not think so if the debate is conducted, as in the council last weekend and as in this debate in parliament today, within the limits we have set for it. what is being said is that the euro area and the european union as a whole are growing less than other parts of the world. we have more stability, thanks to the decisions we have taken in the framework of economic and monetary union, but we have less growth. and that is indeed an answer that we must find not only with the instrument of the stability and growth pact, but also by re-reading it, revising it and adapting it, introducing more economic rationality into it, taking into account the heterogeneity of a european union of 25 following enlargement, taking into account that the treaty also speaks of the need to preserve the sustainability of public finances and not only to preserve and ensure budgetary balance in each of the financial years, through the monitoring of the public deficit, and taking into account that, throughout the years of application of the stability and growth pact, it has always suffered, in terms of credibility, because the existing rules have not been adopted and the one who must do so in the last instance, which is the council. we therefore need to strengthen the pact, the budgetary surveillance framework and our economic governance instruments. and how is that to be done? more flexibility or more rigor? with both. in some respects we must be more flexible, because experience shows that the margin of manoeuvre which we have for the reasonable interpretation of the rules we ourselves decide is not sufficient to take account of very powerful arguments deriving from economic rationality, from the concrete situation of the economy of a country at a given moment. and in other respects we must be more rigorous, for example in monitoring the evolution of public debt levels or in the mechanisms for implementing the pact, both in the preventive and in the corrective part of the pact in the excessive deficit mechanism. we must take account of the economic cycle, preserve equal treatment for each and every country - and this is a task to which the commission feels particularly committed - and ensure better compliance. we need to link the pact instrument better with the other economic governance instruments - as has been said in many speeches this afternoon - of the lisbon agenda of economic growth objectives to make the economic and monetary union of the european union the most competitive area in the world, and at the same time more socially cohesive and more environmentally sustainable. does that require a debate? the commission takes it for granted. should this debate be limited to a certain point? of course, and that is what the commission's communication says. should we seek cooperation and the greatest possible degree of consensus in our dialogue and cooperation with the council? it seems to me an imperative we cannot ignore. the debate - and so has the president-in-office of the council, mr zalm, who has also spoken - should lead us, and i trust it will lead us, to the conclusion that, in november, at the second ecofin review of the adaptation and improvement of the stability and growth pact, the degree of agreement and consensus between the member states, at council level, and between the council and the commission, will be even greater than the very appreciable degree of agreement that has already been shown over the previous weekend. it will require regulatory changes, the least possible. in any case, the key point in the debate should not be whether or not an article, a provision or a paragraph of a regulation should be changed. the touchstone will be whether the reason why it is necessary to change that regulation has been agreed, is reasonable and is in line with our objectives of budgetary stability, of maintaining a framework for fiscal and economic governance and of that framework serving us to preserve the stability and growth of the economic and monetary union. finally, mr president, a word on the subject which has been mentioned many times in many speeches by france and germany. the court of justice's judgment of 13 july basically upheld the european commission. the council was unable to act as it did last november. we now have to apply the treaty, as interpreted by the court of justice. the council must respect the commission's right of initiative. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and must therefore ensure that the rules of the treaties are respected and that they are developed through the existing stability and growth pact, and we are committed to this and will act on the basis of the judgment of the court of justice. how are we gonna do this? we are following very closely the development of public finances in many member states, but particularly in france and germany during the year 2004, and the budgets which each of the two governments is beginning to draw up and which will be sent and discussed in their parliaments in the coming months, before the end of the year. at the end of october, with the knowledge we have at that time of the content of the budgetary policies formally announced by the two governments and pending the final decision of their respective parliaments, the commission will publish its economic estimate and forecasts and we will estimate what the evolution of the public deficit in france and germany in 2004 may be - we could almost say precisely now, but i prefer to reserve until october - and our estimate for 2005. on the basis of the commission's economic forecasts and the precise information we will have in the weeks following the publication of these forecasts on the actual and concrete content of the budgetary policies committed by each of these two countries for 2005, the commission, in exercising its right of initiative and assuming all its responsibility, will tell the council what its proposal is. the council will have to take the appropriate decisions, of course, in a climate of cooperation, but, of course, with the utmost respect for the principles and rules laid down in the treaties and the regulations in force on budgetary stability.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the following oral questions are now scheduled for debate: - to the council:b6-0008/2004 by mr leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the procedures for ratifying the treaty establishing a constitution for europe; - to the commission:b6-0009/2004 by mr leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the communication strategy for the treaty establishing a constitution for europe.
council i thank you very much, mr president, i will try to be brief. i shall have another opportunity later in response to other comments on this, but it is a terribly important subject. i would like to say first of all that i am very moved by what mr leinen said, especially when he points out the enormous importance of continuing with the same enthusiasm after the steps we have taken now and will take on 29 october when we sign the treaty, because we are not there yet. mr leinen is absolutely right in this, and there is also a very important next step to be taken in connection with ratification and the referendums that will be held in a number of countries. i also fully agree with him that this is a shared responsibility of your parliament, the president, the commission and the council. we have also succeeded in doing so as three institutions so far and we will indeed have to continue to do so in the future. i am glad, mr president, that he himself has already pointed out that there is of course a national responsibility for legislation, implementation, the organization of ratification and also of possible referendums, and that this is not a matter for brussels. we will, however, ensure, as we have discussed, that at least information is collected on these ratification procedures. the council secretariat will collect this information and draw up a rolling document so that new information on the planning and organization of ratification and possible referenda can be incorporated into it at any time. we as the council will continue to be concerned about this on a permanent basis. the european council will discuss this. i can tell you that we have also agreed that this will be on the agenda of the european affairs ministers, who normally meet for an informal lunch at any general affairs council, so that we can keep our finger on the pulse from this position over the coming months. the european council called attention to the problem of general citizen involvement, in a broader sense than ratification and citizen involvement alone, partly in view of the low turnout in the last european parliament elections. we as the presidency, and in particular the european affairs ministers, will ensure that we can come up with concrete proposals which will be discussed at the european council on 5 november. we shall be discussing this in amsterdam on 5 october, as i said, both in terms of communication in a more general sense and in concrete terms, on the best ways of taking account of the ratification procedures in the various member states and the coordination required for this purpose. that means, in any case, exchanging information, learning from each other's experience in this procedure. where time alignment is possible, it should be done, but again, that is a responsibility of national member states. the treaty will also be made available to all the citizens of europe, and this will be done centrally. however, there will also have to be room for a national interpretation of all possible campaigns and activities on information. i think that the signal given by the new commission, including the appointment of the first vice-president with special responsibility for communication, is an important step, and further attention is also being paid to communication from that side. and i might perhaps conclude, mr president, by saying that mr leinen also pointed out concerns that may be growing here and there at national level, as he said, with regard to public opinion. that is why it is so important that national governments can choose the right way and have sufficient scope to give their own interpretation to the whole ratification process and the possible referendums. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the council has taken the initiative to adopt the report.
commission i thank you, mr president, and i would also like to thank mr leinen for allowing us to have this exchange on a very important subject. we are convinced that the european constitution will help us to build a more democratic, more transparent, more efficient europe at the service of the people of europe. it is true, however, that to succeed in this institutional construction we must have the consent and participation of the citizens, which is why the commission considers it essential that this constitutional treaty be very widely presented and explained to the citizens. i am therefore answering in place of my colleague mr vitorino, who asked me to apologize, but i would point out that i followed, alongside mr vitorino, the latest debates in the council on the draft constitution, in place of my colleague mr michel barnier. so i will answer briefly, mr president, to your wishes, trying to be as specific as possible. i should like to begin by - and i welcome mr leinen - by pointing out the important part of the responsibility which falls to the national governments which have signed the treaty. i believe that each government is best placed to develop, country by country, the most appropriate approach according to the sensitivities and the specific political and social context of each country. the commission is of course willing to play its full part in this effort, and so, as early as july, president prodi, together with the president of parliament and the president of the committee of the regions, joined by mr vidal-quadras and mr vitorino, called on all european, national, regional and local elected representatives to contribute to this debate. and so we have launched this campaign called 'a thousand debates for europe'. it is a goal we would like to reach and even exceed. may i invite each of you to promote and nurture these debates? the members of the commission are also invited to do so. secondly, i would also like to report on what has been done in the framework of the prince actions, that is to say, in the framework of the information programmes for european citizens. here again, the commission has endeavoured to facilitate, in liaison with parliament, the production of factual tools which present and explain the adopted text and the process which has been followed to prepare it. with the 2004 appropriation, we have started the updating of general public brochures and multilingual guides on the constitution. these brochures and guides will be printed in over ten million copies. we will have, i believe, a volume of information never before reached. we have started the production of a video product to be distributed after 29 october, and the production of information boards to be sent to all our relays and networks, as well as to the national and regional public services that will use them. secondly, the commission has tried to organise seminars for journalists: we hope to reach at least 500 journalists, who will come to brussels to familiarize themselves with the constitution and to dialogue with panels involving parliamentarians from the convention and representatives of civil society. finally, the european parliament and the commission, together with the council, will be able to decide on a new edition of the spring for europe initiative, which has reached many young people: schools are invited to organise information sessions within their own schools. mr leinen, there is a whole series of tools that are being put into place. however, i would like to say that the commission is not in favour of launching a comprehensive pan-european campaign on the constitution. we would indeed risk having a counterproductive effect because such an initiative could be perceived as a supranational propaganda enterprise. it is important to remember, as i have already said, that the ratification of a treaty is a constitutional process and that, therefore, in each member state, the opportunity must be seized and the modalities of the commission's intervention through european public funds determined. all this requires a tailor-made approach, hence the need for such a dialogue between our three institutions: parliament, council and commission. i would also like to thank mr nikolai and the dutch presidency for having organized this informal meeting of the relevant ministers on 5 october, precisely to discuss how this major information campaign can be organized. mr leinen, i am convinced, as you are, that factual and objective information will be able to dispel many misunderstandings and, therefore, we must be able to imagine what can be done in each of the member states following this meeting on 5 october. the commission will support the efforts thus undertaken on this basis. i also noted, and i share your concern, that this informal meeting should make it possible to define timetables and identify the best actors for each national situation. of course, all this will also make it possible to see how the budgetary investments devoted to these actions can be best used. i am answering that on behalf of the commission. we want to build a programme and an information plan following this meeting organized by the dutch presidency, precisely in order to have a concrete, concerted approach and to build realistic action programmes adapted to the needs of our countries. but, mr president, may i, on behalf of the commission, thank parliament for having already, in organising this debate, stressed the importance of this information, which we want to be objective, but above all to be as complete as possible and as accessible to the greatest number of people.
mr president, i am glad to see you preside over this plenary because it means something very important: that the president of the european parliament is keeping his word and that the ratification of the constitutional treaty is the political priority of this parliament. i therefore also believe that this oral question from the committee on constitutional affairs is timely and that 'jo leinen has expressed it very correctly'. it seems that we would have finished our work by approving the constitutional treaty. it seems that the question of ratification is now a matter for the national authorities, the parliaments and the people. i think not, i think it is up to all of us and also the institutions of the union. i am very glad, mr nicolaï, to hear you say that the ministers are going to deal with this matter. you have signed the constitutional treaty and therefore you, like us, have an interest in its ratification as soon as possible. i am concerned about the intervention of commissioner barrot because, apart from the leaflets and the video, i have heard that the commission believes that it is harmful to carry out an information campaign at european level. what do you mean, it's bad for you? what is the commission's view of the constitutional treaty? if you think it is a step forward, a step forward for the european citizens, you will have to say so, as will parliament. we are currently preparing a report which will be adopted on 15 december. if that report is in favour of the constitutional treaty, this parliament must not remain neutral, it must campaign in favour of the constitutional treaty. so, mr barrot, i think the commission has to think about what it is going to do on this issue. i think it is very important to give a clear political signal of where we are, because the european constitution is very important for the future of europe and that is why we all - the institutions of the union and the member states - must be together to win this battle too.
mr president, i too am glad to have you here, although i am obviously not surprised, because we are fortunate to have someone at the head of this house who, as a member of the convention, worked tirelessly to achieve precisely the constitution which we are trying today to have ratified by the peoples. a constituent process is only completed when the sovereign, in this case the people - the citizens of europe - have the last word on the text - in this case, the constitutional text - which is submitted for consideration. however, we are witnessing a very worrying phenomenon: only those who are against the european constitution, those who have doubts, those who try to use this process for partisan or opportunistic purposes, are clearly speaking out. the governments that were at the convention, the parliamentarians, we simply said that this constitution is good and therefore must be supported. we must explain this constitution, we must say what it is that is positive and that without it we would be facing the paralysis of the treaty of nice. we must do this in european terms. mr president, we must europeanise the debate on the constitution, we must europeanise the process of ratifying the constitution which, as its name indicates, is a european constitution. and there's only two ways to do that. firstly, by coordinating the ratification of the convention in the member states. we are twenty-five, but we are one union, and therefore the referendums must be held within a short time frame, which should, of course, be around europe day. secondly, the institutions cannot be neutral in this debate. parliament, the council and the commission, acting in common accord, must pursue a strategy of information, debate and persuasion of public opinion in order to defeat our main enemy, which will be abstention. with a majority vote, this constitution will go through.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i will follow president borrell's suggestion that we catalans do not speak our own language in this chamber. i shall use a language which is very close to the city of strasbourg and to the region of alsace. as a linguist, i would like to express my total opposition to the fact that spain is demanding the presence of catalan and valencian in the language regime of the union, as if they were two completely different languages. the catalan language is spoken from north to south from salses in roussillon to guardamar in the south of the valencian community and from west to east from fraga in the autonomous community of aragon to alguer in sardinia. to talk about catalan and valencian is to promote linguistic secessionism, that is, one of the constant strategies of cultural destruction. the romans said divide and conquer. translated into one of the official european languages, it means divide and rule! what is the point, then, of dividing up the two languages, which are actually spoken across borders and other divisions, as europe moves towards an ever more effective unity? a europe which does not give a voice to all its peoples will be an incomplete europe. we have a great opportunity to build a true european federalism.
mr president, on a point of order and for the record, i congratulate the interpreters on the perfect spanish translation of mr joan i marí's speech.
i would add to what our colleague, mrs isler béguin, has asked, whether the council is really in a position to try to defend the kyoto protocol in relation to third countries, when i do not yet know what the council's real position is with regard to the kyoto treaty. how harmonized are the policies of the member states with regard to the implementation of the kyoto treaty and what will be the position of the member states on 28 september when an amendment is to be considered at the international civil aviation organization which seeks to change the icao regulation in the opposite direction with regard to aircraft emissions on international flights?
mr president, before proceeding to the vote on the joint motions for resolutions signed by five political groups on iraq, i should like to say that there has been an error on the part of the services of the sitting in omitting three references which were part of the compromise resolution. paragraph 1 should read as follows, according to the terms of the agreement between the political groups: 'strongly condemns all indiscriminate violence and in particular terrorist attacks against the civilian population, religious minorities, police forces or soldiers of the multinational force, as well as kidnappings, which also affect journalists and ngo staff, and the heinous crimes committed and still going unpunished; affirms that every effort must be made to put an end to these attempts to undermine by violence the will of the iraqi government and the international community to promote the democratic process;'. in paragraph 2 there is also no mention - mr tajani will say this later - of the return of the remains of mr enzo baldoni. finally, in paragraph 6, which refers to elections, the words 'with the full participation of women' should be added. these elements were part of the compromise. i think it is right that they should be included not as an oral amendment but as an error on the part of the services of the sitting.
the agenda now calls for urgent debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from pollution caused by industrial processes, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from pollution caused by industrial processes.
mr president, in the pes group we attach great importance to relations between the european union and the countries of asia. there are economic and commercial reasons for this, but also the need for political cooperation, which is indispensable for a world order of peace and stability. it is essential that our asian partners identify us with our economic, industrial, scientific and cultural potential, but also with our process of continental integration and with the democratic and solidarity values on which this process is based. we are concerned by the announcement that the government of myanmar has been invited to the asia-europe summit to be held in hanoi. this invitation does not seem relevant to us. the european union must maintain the isolation of the yangon regime, denouncing it to its own neighbours as one of the most nefarious in asia and the world. the military dictatorship, which general nyunt established, has been perpetuated by his successors, drowning in suffering and terror the liberation efforts of the burmese democrats. among those who know and love burma, sadness and indignation are even greater when they learn of that country which, in its day and under governments of social democratic inspiration, was an example of openness, freedom and democracy, tolerance, coexistence and integration of multiple ethnicities and, even more, of social progress. all of this was the fault of the military coup plotters, the protagonists of a totalitarian and corrupt regime that has plunged their country into ruin, enriching its leaders at the expense of the misery of its citizens and turning myanmar into a significant part of the international drug trade. the european union must help to marginalize this regime by demanding the release of aung san suu kyi and the other prisoners of conscience and the participation of political parties in any democratic exit operation. as much as yangon may try to make up for it, that is the situation in myanmar, where absolutism, corruption and the mockery of those who, at one time, could be trusted with proposals for opening up continue to reign. by excluding that regime from the hanoi summit, the european union will do the right thing, but our firmness and our consistency will also strengthen our credibility with our asian partners and, of course, with the people of myanmar. (applause) i would like to thank
mr van orden, the council's representation is decided by the council and you can see it here. perhaps it is not overly nourished, but it is what the council has decided and therefore parliament cannot tell the council what its representation should be at the sittings of the house, but its remark is certainly very relevant.
commission. mr president, the commission is gravely concerned about the situation in burma and, since 2001, has been using the asia-europe meetings of the asem process to reiterate this concern to heads of state and government, ministers and senior officials from the ten south-east and north-east asian countries which participate in the asem meetings. i do not have to impress on the honourable members of the european parliament how important the asem summits are in the eu political dialogue with asia, being the only occasions when eu heads of state meet south-east and north-east asian heads of state in a group-to-group dialogue. it is absolutely clear that all members of the european union remain highly critical of the military regime in rangoon and the european union will continue to repeat our demand for the immediate and unconditional release of daw aung san suu kyi and other leading representatives of the burmese national league for democracy. unfortunately, so far the burmese government has shown no sign of fulfilling this, or the other two conditions of the tullamore gymnich. great efforts have recently been made to find a solution which would allow the asem summits to take place. the commission is of the opinion that we have been able to find a compromise which is acceptable to all. we have been able to reach this agreement, because we value eu relations with asia too much to allow our asem dialogue to be taken hostage by the behaviour of the regime in rangoon. the eu has reached an agreement on the participation of burma in the asem summit, together with the 10 new eu members, cambodia and laos, but the european union expects burma to participate at a level lower than head of state and government. at the same time, in order to send a strong signal to the burmese regime that we do not agree with its policies, the european union has decided to strengthen the targeted measures against the burmese regime if it has not fulfilled the tullamore conditions by the time of the asem summit. ministers have agreed to expand the visa ban list to include serving members of the military of the rank of brigadier-general and above, and members of their families, and prohibit eu-registered companies or organisations from making any finance, such as loans or equity, available to named burmese state-owned enterprises. in addition, eu member states will vote against extending loans to burma from international financial institutions. the commission is also looking at ways and means to take concrete action against illegal logging, while extending assistance to the burmese population, especially on health and education, via international organisations. since the solution to the political situation in burma will have to be generated within burma and within the region, i am convinced that our dialogues in asem contribute positively towards future reform in burma. the commission therefore looks forward to the asem v summit in hanoi on 8 and 9 october, which in the context of wider discussions will allow a discussion with asian leaders on human rights and prospects for reform in burma and allow us to communicate our concerns to the burmese representatives there. working closely with the eu member states and especially the successive eu council presidencies, the commission is committed to all the appropriate efforts, whether they are diplomatic, political, or developmental, that might facilitate and accelerate the democratic and human rights reforms within burma.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of resolutions on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia,
commission. mr president, the commission is continuing to monitor the situation of minorities in serbia and montenegro as part of our general insistence on respect for the political criteria which form a crucial part of the stabilisation and association process. as regards vojvodina, we strongly condemn the reported violent acts against members of the hungarian minority. the recent visit of the serbian prime minister kostunica to vojvodina, as well as the letter sent by the foreign minister of serbia and montenegro to the president-in-office of the eu council of ministers, were concrete expressions of the declared commitment of authorities in belgrade to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice and more generally to ensure the protection of minorities. we have taken note of these commitments and we will continue to keep the situation under close review, notably through the diplomatic representations in belgrade, so as to ensure that the authorities deliver on their commitments. in the run-up to the provincial elections in vojvodina on 19 september, it is important that political leaders show a sense of responsibility and promote a continuation of good inter-ethnic relations. the visit of the hungarian president mr madl to belgrade on 14 september was an excellent opportunity to discuss this issue in a constructive way and to confirm the good relations between budapest and belgrade. for its part, the commission is committed to contributing to the promotion of good inter-ethnic relations in vojvodina as well as in other areas through a number of eu-funded projects.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
commission. mr president, honourable members, the commission is as concerned as you are about the state of emergency in the maldives and the continued detention of members of the constitutional assembly, opposition leaders and journalists. the measures imposed under the ‘state of emergency’ are draconian. president gayoom has clearly overreacted to what amounted to a peaceful protest. the eu has already reacted strongly. on 17 august, the united kingdom foreign office issued a strong statement calling for the state of emergency to be lifted. on 22-24 august, the eu presidency led a fact-finding mission that met with various ministers, some of the detainees and several eye-witnesses. the mission led to an official eu démarche on 6 september, which was not well received by the maldives government, and to a strong public statement calling on the president to release prisoners, lift the state of emergency and continue with constitutional reforms. the president was clearly stung by these statements. he sent the minister for tourism to the united kingdom, germany and italy to explain the situation. he reassured the european union that he intends to continue with his promised constitutional reforms. he agreed that amnesty international and the red cross should visit the prisons. in shaping our response for the future, we should also recognise that the president undertook some reforms before the summer – discussions in the majlis assembly and the establishment of the human rights commission – but that he was clearly moving too slowly for the citizens of the maldives. building on this, a resolution from the european parliament that would underline the main messages already passed by the eu would be very valuable. it should also push the president to move on his offer for the red cross to monitor the prisons, stress that the european union will continue to monitor the situation closely and, if warranted, take up the president’s offer for the eu representatives to return to the country for further dialogue. however, it would, in our view, be premature to consider travel restrictions, suspension of aid and other more punitive actions at this stage. if the situation worsens and the state of emergency is not lifted, such measures should be considered. but let us first see if the president will respect his promises to return to normal rule and resume the reform process as soon as possible. i appreciate the information provided by the honourable member, baroness ludford, concerning the commission's website. i was not aware of it, but i have already given instructions for it to be checked. obviously, there is a need to update the website and that will happen immediately.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the situation in myanmar/asem (parliament adopted the joint resolution)
parliament has exhausted its agenda. deadline for tabling amendments to draft amending budget no 10 for 2004 - composition of committees and delegations - forwarding of texts adopted by parliament during the current parliamentary session - calendar for next partsession: see minutes. i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.15 p.m.)
i declare resumed the partsession of the european parliament, which was adjourned on thursday 16 september approval of the minutes of the previous part-session submission of documents transmission by the council of texts of agreements composition of committees and delegations composition of parliament application for suspension of parliamentary immunity composition of a temporary committee order of business: see minutes.
the agenda shall be followed by speeches on matters of political importance.
thank you very much, mrs. mccarthy. i must tell you that that letter has been sent, and that i had previously conveyed my condolences to the family and the british people. the letter of condolence i sent to the bigley family says that we are all affected by the brutal murder. we had previously called on the kidnappers to release mr bigley, but that call - like so many others made in all parts of the world - was in vain. now all we can do is mourn his death and join in the condolences to his family. this letter has therefore been sent. i appreciate that you have pointed out the opportunity to do so.
thank you very much, mr de rossa. that is what will be done, and the question you have raised will be taken up.
thank you very much, mrs mcavan, your reminder is very timely.
the section on interventions on matters of political importance is closed.
the next item is the statement by the president of the commission on the balance sheet of the prodi commission.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great emotion that i stand before you for the last time as president of the european commission. in fact, in a few days, a journey that has seen us walk together for five years will come to an end. five years marked by major political and institutional changes and major events in europe and the world. i would like to begin this meeting by reminding you of the situation in the european union in 1999. in the institutional field, many wanted to limit the reform to the so-called 'left-overs' in amsterdam, proposing a limited institutional agenda that was not up to the new challenges of the union. in an unfavourable economic situation, fears, doubts and scepticism about the real possibility of physically introducing the euro were very strong. equally strong were the uncertainties about when to achieve enlargement and the number of countries to be involved. many were pushing for enlargement limited to a maximum of six countries. there was no defined time horizon or rules and the press and public were very much afraid. the risks posed by the balkan situation to the continent were even greater, in the absence of a clear and convincing european strategy in that region. finally, the commission itself was in crisis, shaken by the events of 1998 and 1999. its credibility and authority were reduced to the bare minimum and it was therefore necessary to revive its image by initiating for the first time a serious and profound reform of the administrative structure. we have accepted the challenge. together with you, we have put forward an ambitious agenda for europe. the key to this agenda, the unifying factor, which gave impetus and coherence to our action, was enlargement. the unification of europe, through enlargement to ten new countries, a clear timetable for the other candidate countries and a concrete prospect of full integration for all the balkan countries, represent the greatest contribution the union could make to the stabilisation and political, economic and cultural growth of the entire continent. to meet the challenge of enlargement, we had to find the right balance. we could not go too slowly, at the risk of losing the drive towards europe, which was very strong in the candidate countries. but we could not move too quickly without securing the consent of the citizens of the union. we have therefore strongly supported and accompanied the reform processes under way in central and eastern europe and, at the same time, we have taken on board the concerns expressed by europeans about the costs of enlargement, population movements, environmental risks, nuclear safety and corruption. the public opinion in the new member states was more than expected, as the success of the various referendums showed. we have shown that negotiation and dialogue, although sometimes difficult, complicated and detailed, are the only democratic way to export democracy and stability. at the same time, the ambition of enlargement to meet the demands of freedom, security and democracy of half our continent required that we take up the issue of reviewing our institutional set-up with equal ambition. that is why, first isolated, then supported by a consensus that has been growing continuously, we have pushed for a reform that meets the needs of governance in a europe of 25 or more member states. during these five years we have thus experienced a permanent institutional negotiation: the european council in dublin in december adopted a resolution on the situation in the community. thanks to the joint efforts of parliament and the commission, the convention method has finally become a reality, bringing more democracy and more transparency to europe. however, the scepticism surrounding this proposal, which i have defended since the night in nice, was very strong. never before have two visions of europe clashed as they have in this period. a strong, political europe, capable of meeting the global challenges we face, and a weak europe, understood as a mere space of prosperity, stability and regulation and not as a real political entity. europe has changed a great deal since the 1980s and 1990s, and the attitudes and policies of the various governments towards europe have also changed a great deal. in recent years, alliances between governments have very often been ad hoc, pragmatic, linked to specific proposals or to the domestic and international political situation, nor have there been groups of countries consistently pushing for greater integration. for our part, we have always fought to make our union stronger, more democratic and more effective. we have put forward very innovative proposals - think of the union's foreign minister for example - both at the european convention and at the intergovernmental conference that followed. we have now come to the end of the play. in a few days' time, a constitutional treaty will be signed in rome, which is undoubtedly a great achievement for europe, bringing more democracy, simplicity and transparency, even if it has other aspects that are less satisfactory - think for example of the cases where unanimity remains. this is a task to which we, and especially you, honourable members, have made a fundamental contribution. i have spoken to you, honourable members, about enlargement, institutional reform, growth policy and peace. none of this would have been possible if, in all these areas, we had not restored order, strength, prestige and pride to our institution, the european commission. no change is possible without a thorough reform of administrative structures and apparatus. the first positive effects are already being felt in various areas, such as decentralised financial control or external aid programmes. but above all, the reform contained strong political messages and aimed to restore the commission's legitimacy, independence and efficiency. it is enough to mention the example of the rotation system for directors-general, after many years in which some directorates-general were regularly filled by officials of the same nationality, or the nationality rules for commissioners and their cabinets, or finally the decision to bring commissioners closer to the services than their employees. but above all, there is one element that has characterised my commission and of which i am particularly proud: the commission has already done so. i could count on a cohesive, highly professional team, working in great harmony. today, some of the members of this commission already occupy very important posts in national governments and parliaments. i also see these as concrete, strong signs of the revival and growth of the institution which i have had the honour of presiding over for more than five years. and i am sure that the commission will be able to become even stronger under the presidency of josé manuel barroso, to whom i wish every success. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of continental unification is a great opportunity to extend the stability and prosperity of the union to the whole region around it. so we didn't just move the division, the "wall", a few hundred kilometers further east or south. for years, people have been talking about the frontiers of europe, but no operational proposals have been put forward. we have proposed a new vision of the union's frontiers, through the neighbourhood policy, aimed at achieving a genuine special relationship with the whole range of countries from russia to morocco. the european constitution itself acknowledges the need, which we have emphasized, to establish a new relationship between the union and its neighbours. at a time when everyone is talking about a 'clash of civilizations' - and i am convinced that it is above all a 'clash of ignorance' - we have also given a strong impetus to intercultural dialogue and mutual knowledge, particularly in the euro-mediterranean area. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. two days after the lifting of sanctions against libya, those moments seem really far away. but it is only four years of quiet, steady and intensive work that has brought about important changes in that country and paved the way for its readmission into the international community. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the years we have always made a very clear and strong choice in favour of multilateralism. more global and regional governance, a closer partnership with the united nations and less disparity between north and south were the objectives that inspired our action. we have not just "talked" about multilateralism: we have used it to serve our own objectives and political choices. i will give just a few examples: we have linked the objective of trade liberalisation to the need to take greater account of the legitimate demands of civil society and developing countries. we have played a central role in the enlargement of the world trade organisation to foster more effective global governance. we have focused our cooperation and development and humanitarian programmes primarily on poverty reduction. we have strengthened links with other regions of the world, such as latin america and asia, and helped new processes of regional integration, such as the african union. we have also made a concrete contribution to a stronger transatlantic relationship. in fact, after the iraq war, many people said that the gap between the two continents was now unbridgeable. i have never believed this, because i am convinced that in areas where europe really exists, where it is not paralysed by national vetoes, important results can be achieved together with washington and with equal dignity. we have therefore worked hard and effectively with our american partners on concrete issues of great importance, both in the field of security and the fight against terrorism and in certain areas of the world, such as the balkans. i said it before and i 'll say it again . in this difficult, often tragic world, europe has been able, and has been the only one able, to export democracy. in the economic field, the euro has undoubtedly been the protagonist of our mandate. the euro was to be the cornerstone of the new europe from the outset. that is why we have seen the euro from the outset as a major political project and not just an economic one. a project of policy makers and not just central bankers; a project that needs vision, authority and coordination. throughout the mandate we have insisted on the need to strengthen economic governance, because the cost of non-europe in this area is still too high. to this end, we have put forward various proposals to adapt the stability and growth pact to the new needs and the new economic reality in europe, finally opening a debate which was called for by many parties but which no one had the courage to launch. i must confess that i smiled when, after much criticism of my position, a well-known french newspaper wrote that 'with its recent proposals, the commission was making the pact more intelligent' ... we have also consistently contributed to the lisbon strategy and put forward the various proposals needed to achieve the objective of making the union the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world by 2010. think, for example, of the european research area, the emphasis on business innovation and the information society, the new programmes for lifelong learning and the opening up of our universities to the world. the reform of competition policy itself is one of our most significant contributions to greater competitiveness. in the social field, the 'social policy agenda' has provided the framework for a whole range of interventions in the fields of employment, social protection, health and safety at work, equal opportunities and social inclusion. in this area, however, we must be honest and admit that many objectives have been missed. above all, we have not achieved those objectives for which the community method could not be used and which were bound by the unanimity vote. the example of the difficulties encountered in the elementary case of the community patent, repeatedly blocked for linguistic reasons, is perhaps one of the most eloquent. if the member states do not change their behaviour, the lisbon strategy is at risk. the results achieved and the proposals put forward are numerous in terms of achieving the area of freedom, security and justice, improving environmental protection, the energy and transport sectors, and strengthening health and consumer protection. think of the implementation of the tampere agenda and the effort made to respond to the new challenges of international terrorism after the attacks of 11 september 2001. think of the sustainable development strategy in gothenburg, the johannesburg summit and european action in support of the kyoto protocol, which now seems to be able to bring its final results. in these areas, we have truly assumed world leadership, demonstrating in a concrete way the added value of european action in a multilateral context. we have combined strategic choices of the utmost importance for the future of the union, such as the european satellite navigation system galileo or the global strategy for the single european sky, with ready responses to emergencies, such as the shipwrecks of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002. at the beginning of our mandate, there was another area where it was crucial to restore consumer confidence after the mad cow crisis: the food sector. the integrated 'farm to fork' strategy, accompanied by instruments such as the european food safety authority, was our response. the reform of the common agricultural policy itself is designed to respond to new challenges, both domestic and global, by aiming at a more sustainable strategy that pays more attention to rural development. finally, we presented our political project, our vision, for the union after enlargement, with our proposals for the new financial perspective. a political project aimed at the practical realisation of a genuine european citizenship for a union which has now become continental in scope and which must assume new responsibilities towards its citizens and its own responsibilities on the international scene. because that was our ambition too: the european union is committed to making europe a world player, to allowing europe to make its voice heard and to act in favour of a world of peace, security and balanced development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by mentioning one last point which i believe should be placed on the balance sheet of this commission and the european parliament. it concerns the conclusion of a framework agreement between the two institutions for the entire duration of the legislature. our agreement has given added value to joint initiatives, such as the practice of communicating the commission's major initiatives to the european parliament as a matter of priority and solemnly. these agreements have strengthened the political role of the commission and the basis of its democratic legitimacy, which lies largely in the european parliament. this is an undeniable democratic advance, which i hold dear and for which i thank you. finally, i would like to point out the great agreement between the european parliament and the commission on legislative matters. conflict situations can be counted on the fingers of one hand. we should be glad of that. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities is one of the great merits of the codecision procedure and of the fairness with which the three institutions involved have handled it. at the end of these five years i am therefore pleased with the development of the constructive relations established between the commission and parliament. i hope and believe that these can continue in the future. if that is the case, it will mean that the outgoing commission has not only developed its relationship with parliament but has also laid the foundations for further strengthening democracy in europe. i am firmly convinced that we need even more europe and even more 'union' in europe. we must fully embrace the european political project and take it forward with strength, conviction and courage. that's what we've been doing these past few years, and i'm really grateful for all the help and support that you've always given us.
thank you very much, mr. prodi. before i give the floor to the spokesmen for the political groups, i should like to thank you, on behalf of parliament and myself, for your work as president of the commission, and to recall that you took office at a particularly difficult time in european history and that five years later, when you leave office, europe has undergone some historic transformations. yes, really historic. this is, without rhetoric, the right word to express what has happened in europe during your term of office. the effective implementation of the euro, the effective implementation of the monetary union - long dreamed of and hard worked to bring about - will be known as the 'prodi commission'. the greatest enlargement of the european union - which will surely never be repeated - has also taken place under your presidency. this is one of the structural changes in europe that history will associate with your name and the commission you have chaired, and also with your rich and intense participation in the work of the constitution which will be put to the vote. just by mentioning these three issues, mr prodi, you leave the commission presidency with a bag full of money. they are full of political assets which are profoundly transforming european reality and are driving its unity. my predecessors have told me that you have always listened to the european parliament, that you have always been a listening ear. although you may not always have followed his advice, you have always distinguished parliamentarians by your kindness and your constant accessibility. and above all, and above all, with its european commitment. it was this 'widely recognised' commitment to europe that made you president of the commission. you can be satisfied, above all, because by leaving it, that commitment to europe is even more recognised than yesterday. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief because i have taken note of the comments and advice that have been given to me and i do not think it is appropriate to give an analytical answer now. i have taken note of and internalized what you have said about industrial development, about the need for economic recovery in europe and about the fact that industrial regulations should not be allowed to hold back this development. the same is true of suggestions on energy, the environment and progress. i would simply like to conclude with a remark and a thank you. the observation is this: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work in this area, and i hope that the council will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament and the council in this matter. our priority on multilateralism, our consideration for the first time in history of the world as one in so many different fields - environment, economy, energy - and our attempt to find suitable solutions to it, is the extraordinary contribution that europe is making to the globalised world. i have rightly heard criticism of globalization. but globalization is here and it's going on. the problem is to interpret it, and only the european method has so far done so. why would you do that? because we have set an example of how we are coming together and i would like to repeat, at the end of this mandate, the real, single, great definition of europe that i learned when i went to the romanian parliament for the first negotiating talks. at that time, i was told: "we want to join europe because europe is a union of minorities, a union in which no one is the arbiter of others, no one has power over others". we are really small and big countries in this big and difficult balance and this is a lesson for the world, a great lesson that we are giving. there are also, of course, the failures, the particular aspects, the difficulties of translating these aspirations and these sentiments into everyday politics. but it is an effort that is increasingly understood. in the course of the last few weeks i have been to the countries of the caucasus and i have seen the national flags flying next to the european flag, for no reason at all, except for this feeling of being safe, next to a great structure that has no colonial desires, no desires for domination, no desires for dominance: that's the lesson we can teach the world. that is what we have tried to do in the commission, albeit with limitations and weaknesses but with a very great spirit of harmony. you have never heard of any quarrels or tensions in this commission; we never had any grudges against each other. that is why we have perhaps also been influenced by this european spirit of being ourselves a minority union in the commission and therefore of absorbing this lesson which i believe is the greatest legacy we can give to all the citizens of the world. i would like to conclude by thanking you for your cooperation, for your understanding, and also for tolerating certain intemperances and certain choices which you did not share, but perhaps understood the spirit of: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
thank you very much, mr. prodi. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the middle east.
mr president, as the school of culture and peace at the autonomous university of barcelona points out, the situation in israel and palestine has not improved in recent months, quite the contrary. the international court of justice's ruling on the israeli-built separation wall, israel's refusal to comply with the ruling, the impression in diplomatic circles that the quartet roadmap is on the verge of failure and the protests by palestinian groups over corruption in gaza are just some examples of these steps back. it is also clear that we cannot dissociate the delicate situation in palestine and israel from the international context and the dire consequences of the absurd way in which the united states and some of its european allies are dealing with terrorism on an international scale, an attitude which, in my view, is increasingly fuelling the fanaticism of al qaeda. the european union must therefore take a much more forceful stance on what is happening in the middle east. i make two proposals: to follow and support the proposal to put in place all the necessary means to ensure that a normal and transparent electoral process is held in palestine so that sharon can no longer use the argument of the lack of a legitimate and valid interlocutor on the palestinian side, but also, given the insulting disregard that sharon has shown not only with regard to human rights but also with regard to international legality, instead of continuing to export arms to israel - as many european countries have been doing in recent years, including austria, belgium, france, germany, greece, italy, spain and the united kingdom, among others - i believe that the time has come for the european union to take much more forceful measures to put pressure on the current israeli government, including the cancellation of the association agreement. charles chaplin in the movie monsieur verdoux said it very clearly: if you kill five people you are a murderer, if you kill 5,000 you are a hero. please, let's stop making mr. sharon into a hero.
madam president, i agree with mr solana that the policy of taking things one step at a time has been exhausted. what's the alternative you're projecting to aim higher? because the reality is very hard. first, the palestinian authority has little control or effectiveness in the territories. moreover, thanks to the us white paper, the roadmap is practically dead and it will be very difficult to resurrect it. the settlements, the wall, the israeli and palestinian atrocities have shattered the quartet's aims. we've practically hit rock bottom. there is no indication that the council's conditions for supporting the withdrawal from gaza are being met by israel. moreover, sharon has already said that he rules out further israeli concessions and that he really offers no peace purpose beyond the withdrawal from gaza. we should be aware that time is running out and the room for manoeuvre for a solution that is at least just and viable for the palestinian people and for the security of israel is running out. if the european union fails to bring peace in the middle east quickly to a head, this issue will continue to poison peace and security in the middle east and throughout the mediterranean.
madam president, the spanish foreign minister has said that there is too much talk and too little action on the middle east conflict and that it is time to act. i would like to point out that there are statements by representatives of the union which i do not think are appropriate. for example, the middle east envoy, mr marc otte, told the financial times deutchland that - and i quote - 'the israeli separation wall is doing its job'. is their role to prevent the establishment of a viable palestinian state? i also find that point 2 of the conclusions of the foreign affairs council of 11 october is unsatisfactory, since it shows, in my view, a double standard. why does the council condemn all forms of terrorism, 'including rocket attacks in israel'? why, when he says he condemns all forms of terrorism, does he not add: 'including the one that has killed over 40 palestinian children and injured over 120, so far in gaza, in just 12 days'? why does the council say that israel has the right to protect its citizens from terrorist attacks, without adding that the palestinians have the same right? if the council merely condemns the disproportionate nature of israeli military action in gaza, why does it not use the same clever euphemism for the palestinians? double standards? what are you talking about? ineffectiveness? yes, in my opinion, yes. and in my opinion, indeed, enough of the statements. the palestinians are still waiting. how long? they have been waiting since the venice declaration of the union of 13 june 1980. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate mr bourlanges on his report, not only on its content but also on his ability to accept the many amendments we have put to him. thank you for that, mr. bourlanges. i shall confine myself to two reflections on what this new stage in the development of the european police area of freedom and justice can mean. the first is that, in the field of security at the tampere summit, i would like to highlight two initiatives which, in my view, have been very relevant in the construction of this area. firstly, the euro-order, which was undoubtedly the consequence of the terrible attacks of 11 september, and secondly, the action plan against terrorism, which was also the consequence of the terrible attacks in madrid, initiatives which we owe in large part to mr vitorino. today, i think, is a good day to acknowledge it. but an area of freedom and justice cannot be built from the response or reaction to attacks and we would not wish the third relevant initiative in this area to be made after the attacks. we must be able to replace the response with the initiative and we must be able to replace the individual measures, even if they may be part of a plan, so it is a political project. the second reflection should lead us to the methodology that should inspire this second part in the development of the space. first, the diagnosis: the council must ask the governments what the main security problem is in those countries and we must know what the main problem is that affects the security of europeans. i believe, as mr vitorino does, that today it is islamist terrorism and that this is - in my view - the main problem for the security of europeans. secondly, after the project diagnosis, a political project is more than an action plan; it is not simply a set of measures, it means an effort by governments, the council and the commission to tackle a problem. terrorism cannot be dealt with in a generic way. we must say how we are fighting a terrorist organisation with names and surnames, in concrete terms. and after the diagnosis and after the political project, we will know exactly how a european police and judicial area is outlined and defined. but that is the order, not the other way around, as sometimes happens. finally, i would say that a european area of freedom, justice and security must be associated with the diagnosis of a problem and must be effective in solving a problem. and if we are not able to be effective and if we do not link the space to the problem solving, there will be no common police and judicial space. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, any future development of the area of freedom, security and justice must take account, among other considerations, of the emergence in europe of fundamentalist islamic terrorism, which struck the union in the heart of madrid. it is a threat that is added to that posed by the nationalist terrorism of eta, weaker than ever, yes, but still capable of killing. the fundamentalist islamic terrorism shares eta's goal of defeating democracy and the fanaticism with which it acts against innocent victims, but it differs in its strategy, its organisation, its way of acting and its support. to combat both, we must build this area of freedom, security and justice with the same objective: to defeat them, by arresting and bringing to justice the instigators and perpetrators of the crimes, and by adapting the tactics and even the strategy to the size, the context and the structure of each terrorist organisation. recent history has shown us that we are able to act together after an attack, but we are unable to use all the instruments of the rule of law to prevent it. i will give you an example: the council has adopted a number of framework decisions which have not yet been transposed into the national legislation of certain countries and which, therefore, despite the fine words of solidarity from their heads of state and government, are not operational. what are you waiting for? what has to happen? how many more trains have to be blown up before we realise that the fight against terrorism is our own business, that it is a tragedy for those who suffer from it, but that the policy to prevent and defeat it must be european? i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether the time has not come when a state which endangers the security of its neighbours by failing to apply common rules in the fight against terrorism could be sanctioned. i know it's the third pillar, but it depends on the political will. this situation can be changed. i insist, it just requires political will. can a state be punished for not complying with the stability pact, but not for endangering the lives of its neighbours by not applying european rules? it is a sad paradox. it would be very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, if the new commission were to draw up and submit to parliament an evaluation report on the way in which the framework decisions have been transposed into national legislation and on the added value they have brought. mr president, i am going to say goodbye, but let me turn briefly to mr vitorino: i know that sometimes, from the offices, one forgets that the ultimate depositaries of political action are citizens with faces and eyes. i know that is not the case for you, and i want to tell you that thanks to your tenacity, your work and your intelligence many european citizens, many of my neighbours, have felt freer.
mr president, many among us have read, even studied this document, the 9/11 commission report. we all know what it is, we know what it says. it is the reaction – multipartisan, objective, rigorous – of the politicians of a society trying to protect that society, trying to be self-critical of their own institutions and to identify what was not working within them. then, if we turn to europe, we find these documents, one of which was produced yesterday by the council. it is the council report, dated 12 october, following the report by the commission dated 8 june 2004, and it tries to fill the gap. what has happened with the framework decision on terrorism? these documents are almost clandestine, because big political decisions are made in public, yet this one is not. this is depressing. it shows that not even the netherlands presidency has given the commission the answers it needs in order to produce these documents. but the netherlands presidency is not alone in this: only 13 countries out of 25 have done their homework. less words and more work: legislation is work. it is all very well to come and say fine words and try to protect the states and the image of the states instead of protecting citizens. but that is not working.
mr president, mr vitorino, the area of freedom, security and justice must be strengthened in this new stage of the union in order to achieve greater effectiveness and legitimacy in the face of the new challenges that lie ahead of us, which in some cases are real, acute, contrasted, latent or latent threats to our essential values. we believe it is essential that the european union should commit itself to a common political strategy against terrorism which is capable, without any qualms and with the determination that comes from the law, reason and the desire to protect life, of neutralising without hesitation any terrorist organisation that acts in our area of freedom or from our area of freedom. we will thus strengthen the credibility and confidence of our citizens in our democratic institutions. we cannot, mr president, promote or strengthen our freedoms and our rights if we are not able to defend them. and those rights and those freedoms are our greatest asset. mr president, to contribute to this objective and to this unwavering commitment we also need to respond to some problems, the problem of asylum. we need a common procedure and effective measures to protect refugees and to tackle the mafia that cruelly traffics them. we need to manage our external borders together and, finally, it is essential to make great progress in judicial and criminal cooperation, especially in criminal matters. i welcome the agreement between the council and parliament, apart from reservations about the jurisdiction of the court of justice. i commend the dutch presidency for its sensitivity and correct it: yes, terrorism is our main and fundamental problem. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating mr bourlanges and especially commissioner vitorino, whose speech i am committed to from a to z.
mr commissioner, dear luisa, i am pleased to be able to put the question together with the chairman of the committee on development. as you know, there is usually a struggle for competence between the committees of parliament, and in this case i think that working together bodes well for the legislature which is now beginning. in addressing the commission - on the communication it has presented on the generalized system of preferences - i would also like to add my voice to the positive assessment made by mrs morgantini with the following remarks: firstly, we think it would be very desirable - and it can be done when the proposal for a regulation is presented - to carry out an evaluation of the operation of the system, to be able to work on an experience which is more than ten years old and to consult the parties. i think it would be useful for everyone, including the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important that preferences cover more products and, above all, that a significant number of products currently considered sensitive are moved to the category of non-sensitive. to do this, we must consider the possibility of extending the preferential margin. secondly, i would also like to express the goodwill of our committees to the commission's determination to improve and simplify the system of rules of origin. i encourage the commission to promote transregional accumulation of origin and to move towards the harmonization of the systems of rules of origin of the various existing trade regimes and agreements. finally, let me refer to the new single system of additional preferences, the so-called gsp plus. while the creation of this new regime is due 'at least in part' to the need to dismantle the current 'drug regime' following the wto panel decision, i believe it is very important to ensure that the current beneficiaries of this regime enjoy a reasonable transition period to meet the new requirements imposed on them by the gsp plus and that they are not subject to the sudden loss of preferences that they are in dire need of and have been justly entitled to to date. in order to ensure a reasonable level of transparency and democratic control, i urge the commission and the council to launch a consultation process on the first implementing regulation of the new gsp sufficiently in advance to allow the associated countries, non-governmental actors and the institutions of the european union - including the european parliament in the first place - to participate and be consulted in an appropriate manner. in this respect, i think the council conclusions adopted in luxembourg on 11 october, which refer to the need for an explicit consultation of parliament, and go beyond what the treaties currently say, are positive. i hope that both mr lamy and mr nicolaï will make a firm commitment to this. i would like to conclude, mr president, by emphasizing the presence here today of commissioner lamy, who is an example - perhaps the last - of excellent disposition towards this house. as you all know, mr lamy has been an enthusiastic interlocutor of parliament throughout the last parliament and an advocate of working together. as i do not know whether i shall have the opportunity to say it again, i conclude by inviting my colleagues to join in thanking the commissioner for his excellent work in the trade portfolio and, in particular, for the spirit of cooperation which has presided over his work as commissioner. monsieur lamy, i wish you success in your next reincarnation. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's initiative to present a communication prior to the reform of the gsp system, and i also welcome the timely initiative of our two parliamentary committees to put together this oral question with debate, the terms of which are significant for the clarifying value which parliament demands of the communication and, what is undoubtedly more important, of the future regulation amending the current gsp system. we share the commission's view that the system must be simplified, concentrated and ultimately improved in order to make it more effective in achieving its objectives. there are still some unresolved issues, such as the improvement of the rules of origin, a key part of the system, which must play a key role in helping the gsp beneficiary countries with clear operating rules. the same applies to the simplification of the gsp plus system, which we share, but which, in our view, still requires clarifications in the ratification or application of international standards that do not in practice represent an obstacle to the real application of the gsp system, as some latin american countries such as el salvador have already shown, or to key aspects of the incentives in the fight against drug trafficking, which is crucial for countries such as colombia and bolivia. for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the objective of simplifying, concentrating and improving the gsp system, although we will wait cautiously to see how it is finally translated into the next legislative text from the commission, calling attention from now on to the need to set clear criteria as regards the rules of origin and the maintenance of the gsp system for the beneficiary latin american countries and, in particular, the rules relating to the fight against drugs, which still need to be clarified. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that we support the joint resolution which is presented today as a commitment shared by the various political groups which have signed it, which means that we must all make concessions in the interests of this consensus. we therefore reject amendments which go beyond this commitment and which add ambiguity to the treatment of rules of origin, which we are trying to make as clear, transparent and precise as possible in order to help third countries without fraud in their application.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of the system of generalized preferences completes the picture of human rights as an indivisible reality by directly linking the concepts and policies of trade, development and human rights. the reform of the gsp incorporates the idea that the best trade preferences are conditional on compliance with certain standards of social protection, human rights, good governance and sustainable environmental development. the unification of all these criteria into one gsp plus category, in addition to simplifying the system and making it more generous, as the commissioner says, is on the right track in terms of the coherence of community policies affecting developing countries and corrects the fragmentation that has traditionally been addressed in development policy. as the spokesman for the socialist group in the subcommittee on human rights, i cannot but congratulate the commission on this aspect of its proposal, without prejudice to the fact that other points in the proposal are clearly improving, particularly those which establish rigid mechanisms for the preferences established for the least developed countries. we will closely monitor the reform, its implementation and its effectiveness in terms of good development and, above all, human rights.
winner of the sakharov prize. (speech given in turkish and kurdish) mr president of parliament, your messages in turkish and kurdish have been a very meaningful gesture, and before i begin this speech i would like to speak to you in catalan to thank you. (applause) mr president of the parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, i spoke in kurdish for the first time in 1991 from the rostrum of the parliament during the swearing-in ceremony of the turkish national assembly. when i said 'i swear to the brotherhood of the kurdish and turkish peoples', i wanted to draw attention to the fact that peoples, languages and cultures can coexist in a fraternal way. the years i spent behind cold bars, surrounded by deaf and dumb walls, will remain in our conscience as a shock without gratitude. in any case, the struggle for freedom, justice and equality could not have been done without a coup. the years i spent in prison have not broken my heart, nor have they made me want to reproach or be angry. i had to live those years for the sake of democracy, and that's what i did. today i have started my speech in our brotherly language, turkish, and i would like to finish it in my mother tongue, kurdish. my aim is to emphasize once again the brotherhood between peoples, languages and cultures. i greet you all with these sentiments and friendship. i would like to thank parliament, with my warmest thanks, for considering me worthy of the sakharov prize. i would also like to thank you for the unfailing solidarity you have shown towards me and my friends during the years i have spent in prison. in fact, you have not conferred this prize on me alone, you have given it to the kurdish people, you have given it to the turkish people, who are our brother, you have in fact given it to turkey, you have given it to the defenders of peace, equality, freedom and brotherhood. you gave it to children who lost their parents in wars, to women who lost their children, to those who are oppressed, regardless of their color, language, religion, or race. in short, you gave this prize to hope, a hope full of future. you have given public opinion the opportunity to express itself, you have encouraged it. the fact that the values which sakharov represents are sacred and inviolable values has increased my moral and humanitarian responsibilities, and i am addressing you with full awareness of this fact. it breaks my heart to see our children lost in any part of the world where this happens, but of course, first and foremost in my own country. it's a heartbreaking pain for me. i beg you to hear my voice and hear it as the voice of mothers whose hearts are burning with pain, as the voice of children, youth, women, thousands, tens of thousands and millions of people, of human beings. wars have caused great suffering, and they have inflicted deep wounds. there was a lot of suffering, nature suffered, flowers, birds and butterflies cried. the wars in iraq, palestine, aleppo, the balkans, beirut, chechnya, ireland, spain and all kinds of other wars that i cannot remember at the moment have told us a lot and they continue to tell us a lot. we have learned from bitter experience that violence breeds more violence, without providing solutions. we have also seen that policies based on repression, denial, extermination and simulation have led to more injustice, poverty and suffering. we must therefore reject violence and war, whatever its cause and justification. we should be able to say no. violence is out of date. the language and method of solution of our time is dialogue, compromise and peace. it's not kill and die, but live and let live. you, the members of the european parliament, are here today in peace, despite the divisions and wars that have lasted for centuries and generations. is not the unity you have formed while preserving your national characteristics one of the most striking symbols of peaceful coexistence? mr president of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as a person who seeks justice, the first appeal i make to you is to myself: i pledge myself on my honour to meet the expectations of my people, my country and democratic public opinion, even if it means the loss of my life. it's a commitment i make without expecting anything in return. the second appeal is to my country, turkey. the turkish government must put the democratic solution to the kurdish problem on its agenda by giving it an appropriate name. all living things on earth have names: flowers, trees, birds. they all have names. only the kurds have no names. there is no reason not to define this problem and give it a proper name. there is no reason to fear dialogue and peace. the kurds want a peaceful solution within the territorial integrity of turkey. they are the founding elements, the first elements of the republic of turkey. they respect all the values that symbolise the republic of turkey, but the government seems to be inflexible in not wanting to understand the sincere initiative of the kurds, based on openness to dialogue. and if a peaceful solution is not put on the agenda, whatever political party may be in power, this dialogue will be doomed to disappear. there have certainly been important steps towards democracy, but the implementation of these measures seems to be only cosmetic. the copenhagen criteria must be implemented in substance, not just in words. (applause) i would like to thank the most urgent need is to remove the basis for armed conflict and violence. a legal system that would lead to disarmament would be an important first step towards peace. and yet, there is another urgent need, which is to allow the inclusion of political prisoners, of the intelligentsia, of writers, of politicians in democratic life. another thing we want is to open up democratic spaces without restrictions to freedom of thought and association. social and economic measures aimed at eliminating regional disparities are of vital importance. the obstacles to the use of our mother tongue in the media must be removed and it should be possible to learn it at the elementary level. a new democratic constitution must be drawn up which is in accordance with universal law and in which, as the turkish president, mr sezer, has said, the kurds must be recognized as part of the majority and protected. no one should doubt the kurdish support for the measures taken for democratization. my third appeal is to the world, and first and foremost to europe. peace in turkey will mean peace in the middle east, peace in europe and peace in the world. today, peace is in your hands, in our hands. we can do this by helping each other, and to do that, we must first know what is right. if you know what is right, you also know what is wrong. but if you only know what's wrong, you can't achieve what's right. the right thing to do is to start by giving a name to the problem, and then to recognize it and define it. anything that is unnamed and undefined is unidentified. this means that the element in question is considered to be non-existent. it is time for the world to recognize the political, social and cultural rights of the kurds, who have a population of over 40 million people. the kurds have openly expressed their desire to complete their rebirth and integrate into the world today. what we expect from the world is that our will be respected and that it cannot be used as a bargaining tool in international relations. if this problem is not addressed from the point of view of conscience and humanitarian spirit, a potential threat will continue to weigh on regional and global peace. nations have been left alone because they have built walls instead of bridges. europe has suffered for years and mankind has broken down these walls, one after another. europe and the world should be able to tear down the invisible walls that have been built between them and the kurds and, moreover, serve as a bridge to find a solution to this problem. it is necessary to take into account the fact that a turkey, a member of the european union, which has solved the kurdish problem, will allow western civilization to come to grips with the great cultural wealth of mesopotamia. it is only then that western civilization will transform into the democratic civilization that it is today. the fourth appeal i make is to democratic public opinion and to those who are in favour of peace. it is not enough to be a partisan of peace and to be peaceful oneself, it is not enough to bring peace. if men do not wage war against each other and war against each other, nothing can abolish wars. so wherever there is war, we must be the warriors of peace and be organized. and my last appeal is to the kurds, who are fighting for democracy in all the geographical regions where they live; they must first be at peace with each other. they must promote democracy, allow freedom and show solidarity. there will be no solidarity without mutual respect for values, no cohesion without solidarity, no strength without cohesion and no peace without strength. it should be noted that each one is actually trying to shape his own variety of kurdish among the kurds who are in what is called "the feast of the wolves". the only way to prevent and avoid this is to have unity and cohesion within, peace among us, solidarity and our own policies. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why should not turks, kurds, germans, french, laz, circassians, spaniards, georgians, assyrians, americans, czechs, arabs, yazidis, britons, catalans, persians, chechens, aborigines, american indians, alawites, sunnis, africans, palestinians, jews, catholics, protestants, muslims, christians, whites, blacks and the whole peoples of the world live together in peace and harmony? we all look at the same stars and we are all travelers living together on the planet. we all live under the same sky. since, as victor hugo said, "peace is happiness that absorbs everything", we must forget everything that has to do with war, pain, vengeance and hatred. you have to absorb all of that. without it, we can't travel together and be happy. i dedicate this speech to the brotherhood and happiness of the turkish and kurdish peoples. i greet you all with love and friendship. (applause) i would like to thank
mrs leyla zana, you have spoken of turkey as your country and called for the recognition of the identity of the turkish people, while respecting the territorial integrity of turkey. so, mrs zana, just as i greeted you in your language, kurdish, before, let me now thank you in your language, turkish: "konuşmanız için içten teşekkürler" which means "thank you very much for your speech". mrs zana has spoken to us, and very well, about identity, about the process of overcoming antagonistic othernesses, of antagonistic identities that have been destroying each other throughout history. a good example of the construction of a common identity, more complex than the original identity of each of us, because it encompasses a richer reality. it is precisely the search for a multiple identity compatible with the originals of each one that leyla zana's example represents. that's why, mrs. zana, again "konuşmanız için içten teşekkürler". (applause from the right)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, doping in sport has become a worrying phenomenon which the european union has a duty to tackle because national responses, as the commissioner has said, are not enough. it is important to combat these practices as they are contrary to sporting ethics, as they prevent fair competition between athletes in all sports and in all countries. the practice of doping reflects a negative image in society of the values that should govern sport. as a member of the committee on culture and education in the parliament, i see sport as an instrument for educating people and i sincerely believe in the values that sport should convey. european children and young people must recover the idea of sport as a healthy, inclusive and social activity, where participation is still important. it is clear that doping in amateur sport is a reflection of a different idea, which has nothing to do with education or sociability. i therefore call on the commission to intensify research into doping substances, detection methods and the impact of doping on health, in order to reduce doping and protect our athletes from the danger to their physical and moral integrity.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order under rule 166 of the rules of procedure, in conjunction with rule 24 (3) which governs the powers of the conference of presidents. yesterday, a minister in the italian government insulted this house by saying that it was dominated by faggots. i come from a country where legislation is currently being considered to end discrimination against homosexuals - as has happened in belgium and the netherlands. it is a matter of subsidiarity at the moment, but i want the conference of presidents and the president to ask the italian government to apologise because what is at stake here, ladies and gentlemen, is first and foremost whether mr barroso or mr berlusconi is in charge of the commission. (applause) and secondly, i would like to say to my italian colleagues that we are ready to welcome an italian commissioner who has the personal and intellectual rigor of leonardo da vinci or michelangelo. (applause) i would like to thank
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 october 2004.
before moving on to our agenda, i would like to make a few remarks on the fact that yesterday was united nations day, and the last sakharov prize winner, kofi annan, made a statement in which he stressed that we can and must do more to achieve the objectives of peace, human rights and development, which are at the origin of the creation of the united nations 59 years ago. since yesterday was the day on which we celebrated the birth of this institution, i think it is good that today parliament, when it meets again, should affirm the need for a functioning united nations that leads the way in giving the impetus that the world deserves. i want to convey this message to our institution because we all have a share of responsibility in promoting the multilateralism that was created at the end of the second world war. as the european parliament noted last january, the european union and its member states contribute more than half of the contributions to the united nations system and peacekeeping missions. our share of development aid is over 60%. we therefore have an important role to play in the future of the united nations and in its work and objectives. that is why i would like to take the opportunity today to appeal to the member states to avoid public disputes. the future of the security council is a very important matter for the better working of the united nations. that said, i think it's appropriate to say, given, as i say, the significance of the date.
the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed. is there any comment?
thank you very much, mr gollnisch. it is not hidden from you that we are at the point of adopting the minutes. the minutes say what they say and what they say reflects what was said. the presidency - and i am sure the whole parliament - will be very pleased if you did not actually carry out the demonstrations which have been attributed to you. it will be a matter of satisfaction for everyone that you did not actually say - and if, in addition to not saying it, you do not think it, even better - what generated the reaction of the bureau of parliament and what i became a spokesman for. the minutes are approved in the same terms as the president's speeches. today's vote will be yours, mr gollnisch, and it will be recorded in the minutes that you say to the house that you have not said what you are accused of. if so, believe me, i shall be the first to rejoice - and i am sure that the whole of parliament will be glad that no member has been able to make the statements attributed to you. the minutes of the previous sitting are approved.
the agenda now opens for speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, in a year and a half, on 18 july 2006, it will be 70 years since the fascist coup d'état in spain led by general franco, which marked the prelude to the second world war and the beginning of a bloody civil war and almost four decades of dictatorship. millions of spaniards, directly or indirectly, suffered the brunt of it. hundreds of thousands were killed or suffered imprisonment or internment in over two hundred concentration camps throughout spain, the last of which was not closed until 1962. mass terror, widespread starvation, systematic torture, were the triangle of what paul preston calls the spanish genocide. even today, bodies of missing people are being unearthed, and among them is the body of the poet federico garcía lorca. this parliament has rightly spoken out against the horrors of extremism and nazism. on that date we will have the opportunity for the european union, which was born of peace, democracy and against dictatorship, to speak out against this beginning of one of europe's tragedies with the great slogan 'never again!
i will. you can be sure that there will be a new commission. at some point there will be a new commission and it will receive full transmission of its concern.
i've received 22 requests. it is clear that we will not be able to meet all of them, because otherwise we would be far beyond the half-hour allocated for these purposes. i shall now give two further requests for the floor in the order in which they were visually withheld and i apologize to the remaining 20 members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, 25 october, we are celebrating in the basque country the 25th anniversary of the statute of guernica. it is 25 years ago today that the basques went to the polls in that spanish autonomous community, and we did so to endorse and approve by a majority that statute as a legal-political framework that emanates from the spanish constitution and that has allowed us the basques to obtain the greatest self-government and the greatest autonomy of all time in that land. i can assure you that the statute of guernica is the best framework for generating confidence, well-being, development and freedom in the basque country. and unlike those who want to jeopardise these 25 years of democratic successes, we believe that the statute should be the basis for continuing to build the democratic coexistence of the next generation of basques. it is therefore more necessary than ever to reaffirm the validity of the statute of guernica and i therefore ask the presidency of the european parliament to send the presidency of the basque parliament a message of congratulations on this anniversary.
the debate on matters of political importance is closed.
the next item is the report (a6-0014/2004) by mr lipietz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 2003 annual report of the european central bank (2004/2144 (ini)).
mr president, mr trichet, mr almunia, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly greet everyone in this debate which makes visible the democratic sense of the independence of the european central bank, which means parliamentary responsibility and control. i fully share the aspects of mr lipietz's report concerning the favourable assessment of the reaction of the european central bank during 2003: the low levels of interest rates, the clarification of the concept of stability and the enlargement of the euro area. the concern is that economic activity slowed down in 2003, especially in the euro area, and that risks to growth persist today. the union is designed to bring about the twin of stability and growth; one leg is not enough. that is why commissioner almunia's initiative is very relevant and will need support. the report also stresses the need for the european central bank to be closely associated with investment and growth policy. on the contrary, the need for structural reforms must not be distorted by misleading signals; the link between weak economic activity and low working time should therefore be excluded from the resolution. it does not conform to the criteria of flexibility, which is opposed to rigidity, nor to those of productivity. the essential thing is to create more value per unit of time and not with more units of time. in short, a bottom-up model will be dissolving, and we need an integrated, intelligent and ambitious economic, social and environmental governance.
mr president, in this last speech i would like to stress three points. firstly, it is emphasized that the history of economic and monetary union has been a success story, and it is said that this is due to the work of the bank. i agree with the rapporteur on this point and i would encourage the governor of the bank of spain to continue to set price stability as his main objective and not to listen to the siren song of the left to move towards other objectives. secondly, i would ask the president to tell the commissioner, who is standing by his side, that the flexibility of the pact he is proposing, the establishment of an a la carte pact, is a real time bomb for prices, sterilising the efforts of the central bank, for interest rates and therefore for investment and employment, for the pensions of the future and for the lisbon reforms. because if the pact is broken or relaxed, we'll need tomorrow's taxes to pay today's obligations. why don't we grow up? not because governments have been disciplined in complying with the pact, but because they have done the opposite and, moreover, because they have not fulfilled the obligations we have laid down for them in the lisbon pact and in the broad economic guidelines. i encourage both the president of the central bank and the commissioner to make an action plan, in the same way as we have achieved an integrated financial market with a financial services action plan, setting out the reforms and objectives we must achieve, the barriers which are hampering growth and which we must remove, the actions we must take and the timetable we must respect. mr president, do not listen to governments when they urge you to turn a blind eye, to look the other way, when their tax decisions are not being followed. instead, i suggest that you, like ulysses, when you hear those sirens, tie yourself to the mast and follow the course that such good success gives us and that you convince the commissioner that this is the course to follow.
mr president, the penultimate speaker who spoke on the previous points of order congratulated himself on the fact that today marks the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the statute of autonomy of the basque country, and on this occasion he proposed that this parliament should congratulate the basque parliament on the 25th anniversary of the adoption of that statute, which is today, 25 october. i would point out that you have forgotten to say that, after a quarter of a century of this statute, there are still 37 pending transfers and it is an organic law of the spanish state which has not been fully implemented.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the basque parliament on what happened 25 years ago, regardless of the progress of that statute, which i think has been very satisfactory. but mr ortuondo's intervention seems to me rather grotesque, as if we were not congratulating the french people on the french revolution because some of the subsequent laws have not been complied with.
mr president, i would first of all like to express our firm commitment and solidarity with the workers of general motors and its subsidiaries who are now fearful for their jobs, for the future of their families and for the future of their regions. we must reiterate to all of them today, from the european parliament, our rejection - as has already been said - of forced redundancies and any closure of production plants. we also want to demand once again - as has been said here repeatedly - that the rights of workers to information, consultation and participation be strengthened, both at national, european and multinational level. i know that the workers at gm are trying to participate in the european committee and are trying to anticipate the problems of crisis, anticipating possible scenarios and, in this case, it is the management that has left, that has made the mistakes. that is why we are once again calling for a deeper examination of the corporate and social responsibility of enterprises, for the commission to take the decision not only to analyse the sector but also to go into this requirement of responsibility towards workers and the territories in which they are located, and we are also calling for more incisive measures for transparency in decision-making, which we believe has failed in this case. i am also aware that in the case of gm, these workers - and i know this well, because at the figueruelas plant in my region of aragon, it has been the case - have just signed an agreement in which they have shown a great capacity for negotiation, dialogue, foresight and adaptation to the requirements of flexibility, precisely to anticipate the problem of cycles, and yet once again management - not the management of aragon, but the european management - has abandoned them. that is why we ask the commission, in addition to this study group, to please implement the social measures, the economic and social responsibility measures which this parliament has proposed many times.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the price of oil has risen considerably this year, reaching all-time highs - in dollars - in nominal terms. its impact on the economy is mainly due to the sharp rise in recent months, since, taking into account the evolution of the euro-dollar exchange rate and inflation, the current real price level in euro is comparable to that of 2000. the very short-term expectations are that the price of oil will remain high, due to higher than expected growth in demand, especially demand from the big asian countries and in particular from china, to the limited additional capacity to increase supply in the short term and to global and regional political uncertainties, in particular the conflict in iraq, of course. the upward trend has also been reinforced by certain speculative movements, attracted by the price volatility caused by the uncertainties just mentioned. this increase clearly has a negative impact on growth in 2004 and on the growth forecast for next year. the dollar price of oil is now 60% higher than it was six months ago when the commission published its spring economic forecasts. the commission will publish tomorrow its autumn economic forecasts, which include an estimate of the price of oil, which is of course higher than it was six months ago. according to the econometric model of simulations that the ecfin directorate-general has, if the price of oil were to remain at $50 a barrel - and today i believe that the brent barrel has traded above $51 - the impact would be an accumulated loss of growth over three years of almost one point of gross domestic product, with the price of oil remaining at $50 a barrel throughout that period. in fact, in the economic forecasts which the commission will present tomorrow, a higher oil price assumption has been taken into account than we took into account in the spring, although it is also true that, in relation to these estimates of the macroeconomic model, our assumptions of oil price developments for 2005 and 2006 are slightly more optimistic. we do not therefore expect it to remain at the level of 50 dollars, but to decline gradually. however, despite this negative impact, european economies are able to withstand this price increase, thanks in particular to two factors. on the one hand, the real price of oil - as i said - is considerably lower than previous highs. not only is it not higher than in 2000, but it is well below the peak reached in real terms in 1981 and is also significantly lower than the peak reached in 1973, more than 30 years ago. in addition, european economies have meanwhile, over that 30-year period, significantly increased their energy efficiency, reducing their dependence on oil from that which existed in the 1980s, making us less vulnerable to rising energy prices. in addition, the major changes in the formation of wages in the european economies, which are now less linked to price developments, should make it possible to reduce the side effects of the increase in energy prices or inflation, to which the president of the european central bank referred this afternoon. unlike in previous crises, so far at least, inflation expectations have not risen, despite the rise in oil prices. that said, it must be acknowledged, mr president, that certain sectors are being particularly affected because of their specific characteristics and circumstances, and i am obviously referring, as the wording of this point in the debate does, to agriculture and fisheries. the commission is well aware of the specific difficulties which arise in these sectors with the increase in fuel prices. in both cases, producers, both in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, can hardly pass on the increase in their costs to prices. the need for specific action is therefore not in doubt and the commission, in accordance with the request made to us last week by the eurogroup, has committed itself to presenting next month to the eurogroup and the ecofin a report on the measures that member states may envisage in accordance with the rules of the treaty, thus not breaking the existing legislation on state aid and preserving a principle which we believe is essential in economic and monetary union, namely the coordination of individual member states' initiatives in order to avoid distortions of competition. the ministers of finance, in ordering the commission to draw up this report, again stressed the need not to adopt unilateral measures and that any possible measures which might affect competition should first be subject to a mechanism of coordination and prior consultation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. firstly, it is good to note that the appropriate policies to ensure the stability of energy supply are being properly implemented and coordinated at international, community and national level, and, of course, it must be made clear that there is no reason to fear a disruption of energy supply in the industrialized countries, since the current level of strategic oil reserves, whether in the united states, the european union or other oecd countries, allows problems in the supply of crude oil, if they arise, to be dealt with over a long period of time. this is important to remember, because the perceived risk of possible future oil shortages is contributing to the high level of oil prices, which i think is unjustified given the characteristics of the functioning of that market and the level of those strategic reserves. and finally, and looking ahead, it is important that we continue the reforms that we have undertaken in the past at the level of the european union, continued reforms to further improve our energy efficiency, because that will improve the ability of our economies to cope with external economic disruptions, such as this rise in the price of oil, and at the same time, by taking those energy efficiency measures, we will increase the long-term growth potential of the economies of the union.
mr president, let me first of all regret that this house has missed today the opportunity to provide the citizens with a package of real solutions to the crisis caused by the price of oil in certain sectors, as our committee on fisheries had initially proposed. the commissioner has said that the consequences are particularly serious in the fisheries sector, and neither the community institutions nor certain member states, including, unfortunately, my own, are taking any action. our house has decided to join in this inaction, preferring a mere statement by the commission to committing itself by means of a resolution, as our political group proposed. in fisheries, this statement is of little or no use to us today, because we already know the opinion of commissioner fischler, which is to pass on the increases to consumers. the problem is that the commissioner - and i am glad that you, commissioner, are saying the opposite today - was unaware that this is an impossible solution in this sector, since it is governed by a system of auctioning down. the situation is quite different, mr president. the oil price crises of 1993, 1994, 2002 and 2004 already show that this is not a short-term problem but a cyclical one, and cycles are expected to be shorter and shorter, as this is an exhaustible source of energy. we are therefore faced with a structural deficiency which will have to be addressed by structural measures. the european people's party therefore calls for the creation of a community instrument which can be triggered almost automatically in these periods of crisis. but we also need urgent measures to support the sector until such an instrument is part of community legislation, measures which include the granting of low-interest or zero-interest loans and the fixing of a maximum price, the amount of which is compensated up to the real price by means of financial measures and temporary deductions from social security and taxation.
mr president, what strikes me today in this house is above all the absence of the commissioner responsible for two sectors - agriculture and fisheries - from whom the initiative to propose measures to mitigate the negative impact of the rise in oil prices on two sectors that are inescapably dependent on it should start. two strategic sectors for the maintenance of employment and the food supply of the union. both sectors have - as commissioner almunia has acknowledged - difficulties in passing on the price increase, something which mr fischler does not seem to have understood yet. i would say that we have a duty to act with diligence - and the commission too - in crisis situations. in this respect, i would say to commissioner almunia that we do not want to go back to the scenario experienced in the year 2000, when the commission decided to declare illegal and to force the reimbursement of the state aid received by these professionals. a similar situation would be detrimental to the credibility of the institutions, not only community but also national. i agree with the commissioner that it is appropriate to adopt a mechanism capable of responding at community level to this situation, which is endangering two of our most sensitive productive sectors. i do not think it is too much to wait a month if it is to allow the design of an appropriate community framework capable of setting the scope and duration of the measures that can be taken by both the european union and the individual member states, the only way in our view to avoid the problems of distortion of free competition that could be generated by each member state adopting them on its own.
mr president, since the beginning of this year the price of agricultural fuel has risen by 40%. if we talk about a case that i know well - the case of spain - this has caused very heavy losses to producers who have not been accompanied, in any case, by national compensatory measures in a timely manner. spanish farmers are very concerned about the spanish government's inaction in this matter. last week a motion was tabled in this house for this parliament to pass a resolution in favour of long-term measures to reduce farmers' dependence on diesel. this project - the only one i have seen circulating on agriculture - did not go ahead, which, in my view, can be interpreted as a sign of this house's lack of solidarity with farmers, one of the two sectors - along with fisheries - most affected by price increases and because, in neither case, producers can pass on this increase in their prices. to solve this problem, i propose five measures: firstly, that the member states take coordinated action to avoid distortions of competition between neighbouring countries; secondly, that the european commission shows the utmost benevolence in authorising national aid; thirdly, that the european union should once and for all undertake a mature reflection on the means at its disposal to tackle the crises which have been occurring for years - let us recall the 1993/94 campaign, the year 2000 and all these campaigns in which price increases have been totally bloody for producers; fourthly, on that matter which was aborted at the conference of presidents last week, i proposed to ask the european union to bring forward the report it has to draw up on aid for the production of biofuels in order to seek as soon as possible viable solutions to the community regulation, and also to reduce the dependence of farmers on oil, as the european parliament and the commission have proposed in the last report, and fifthly, that the european union should take the long-term approach to reducing dependence on oil.
the next item is the statement by mr barroso, president-elect of the european commission.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a decisive stage in this important democratic process, namely the constitution of the new european commission. in june, the heads of state or government unanimously appointed me president of the commission. on 22 july parliament gave me its confidence by a large majority. i thank you for the honor you have given me. i then put together my team, in agreement with the council and on the basis of the personalities nominated by the member states. i also decided on the distribution of responsibilities between the new commissioners and the broad lines of internal organisation of the new commission. during this time i have been in constant contact with this parliament and have had the opportunity to meet all the members of the european council, with the exception of the heads of government of two countries in which elections have now taken place. i stand before you today, ladies and gentlemen, to ask for the approval of the future college. this commission is a team with many assets: more women than in any previous commission; the main european political currents are represented, in particular the christian democrats and the people's party, the socialists and the social democrats, the liberals and the democrats; the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. all the members of the future commission have pledged themselves to defend and promote the interests of our union, conscious of their joint responsibility towards this parliament. in its internal workings, the commission shall be guided by the principle of full collegiality. as i said in july, and as you claimed, there are no first-class or second-class commissioners in this college. it can be said that, on the whole, the commission which i am now proposing to you has been received very positively by european public opinion.
the representatives of the political groups and other speakers will now take the floor. i must point out to everyone that at 12 noon this debate will have finished because at that time her majesty the queen of the netherlands will be entering the chamber and, consequently, the presidency will have to be very strict in its control of the times. i would like to point out that the speakers have taken this into account and that the presidency will not have to resort to cutting off the microphones.
in view of the repeated references to the council, i must inform the house that the presidency has sent a letter to the president-in-office of the council inviting him and the other members to attend this part-session of parliament.
mr president, mr barroso, the european institutions are not at any moment in their history, we are living in a constituent stage, a constituent europe. a constitution is not just another treaty and a stage before the adoption of a constitution is not just another stage. what should characterize a constituent stage in the behaviour of politicians? an attitude which requires us to be able to put aside our ideological differences and our differences as parties. what are we going to ask the european citizens when we ask them to support the european constitution? let them put aside their ideological differences when it comes to voting for a constitution for all. we're going to ask you to vote for the constitution together, to popular, socialist, liberal and conservative. and how can we ask them for this effort and this behaviour if we accentuate our ideological differences and at this moment we differentiate more than ever the strategies of our parties? the exemplary institution in this constituent period must be the parliament. the only institution elected by universal suffrage by all citizens is the parliament, and the social environment that our societies require requires a political environment which we have the duty to create from a more cohesive and united base. and that is why we want to be consistent with this previous political environment, which will require the adoption of the european constitution, unequivocally supporting mr barroso. some people believe that a defeat for mr barroso will be a success for the european parliament. let me tell you that you are wrong: it will be a success for those who do not believe in the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the president-designate of the commission called on parliament to be responsible on this issue. i agree with him. but that does not necessarily go in your favour, mr barroso. we are not judging or voting here on the religious beliefs of anyone. we are judging your commission's commitment to fighting for the basic values of the european union and your commissioners' ability to implement policies based on principles that they do not believe in and do not support. we are judging whether this parliament has a decisive voice in europe's political future, or whether we want it to be reduced to an advisory board within the council. finally, we are judging your own respect for parliament and your independence from individual governments. it is time to be serious, that is true. it is time to show citizens our commitment to democracy and our commitment to them, and thereby to strengthen europe. whatever happens, this will not be an institutional crisis; it will be a development of democracy. (applause)
mr president of the commission, the spanish socialists gave you a chance in june. i have to say, he didn't take advantage of it. and since it is a question of the constitution, it must be remembered that the epp asked for its approval to be brought forward and for the election results to be taken into account. the epp coalition got 36% and the socialists 27%. we, for that very reason, gave him that chance. but there is another golden rule in the constitution, and that is that europe, the parliament and the commission, operate in budget and codecision by an absolute majority. and that has to be a rule, and that is not resolved simply by telephone calls to the members of the council. you, today, three months after being voted, propose a team and three months later propose the programme. this will have to be adjusted in the future, but in any case you have said something important today: you promise a reshaping of your commission if we vote for you. the problem is that, right now, we don't have confidence, after what happened in the month of july. in order to apply the constitution and to ensure that democracy also functions, we offer you the possibility of taking into account the constructive remarks of parliament by voting against this house.
madam president, i have been in this parliament for some time now and those who know me know perfectly well that i am not in favour of a parliament that is complacent, meek or genuflecting to the commission and the council, but of a parliament that exercises its responsibilities, that invests the commission, not that attacks the commission, that democratically controls it, that reviews, debates, ratifies and rectifies. but in the responsible exercise of its powers, this parliament, which has to do a job not of complacency but of demands, cannot settle on the rock of arrogance or behave with the arrogance of the mandarin. this means that if the commission does not meet all our demands, we must not stop investing it and sending it home. the barroso commission must be judged solely on its abilities and competence, not on the personal, ethical or moral convictions of its members, because if we had followed this criterion, madam president, we probably would not have been able to vote for the president of the european parliament either. this is the greatness of the tolerance we practice, madam president. i would like to say, addressing the few liberal group colleagues who are still present, that they gave a lesson in sensitivity and a sense of responsibility in july when they voted for the president of the commission, even though they had been left out of the pact, the agreement under which a socialist was elected president of this house. in mr barroso's commission there are capable people who have been members of this parliament, who must be judged - i repeat - not by their personal opinions but by their capacity and competence. i therefore ask my liberal colleagues to give serious thought to their vote, to think carefully and to consider whether they should vote for this commission. it is the best way of achieving the positive complicity which the president of the commission has announced and which is at the origin of the progress made by the european union.
commission madam president, i will not have time to answer all the questions in ten minutes, but i will try to answer the questions of substance. firstly, i have clarified the doubts about certain commissioners at the meeting with the conference of presidents. in particular, as regards the issue of independence for the competition portfolio, we will make public all the opinions of the legal services, showing that the independence of the commissioner and the commission in competition matters can be guaranteed. as regards the accusations of prior activity by one of the commissioners, i cannot, contrary to what some members have asked, investigate the past of all the commissioners-designate. it's not possible. i have to rely on what's objective. you know very well that in political life many of us are the objects of unfounded accusations. i cannot give in to a culture of intolerance, a culture of suspicion, just because there are rumors or just because there are attacks in our respective countries. on the other hand, if there is evidence of unacceptable practices, of course i have the means to act. i now come to the main issue on which i would like to express my views: the institutional question. ladies and gentlemen, before i became prime minister, i was leader of the opposition. i am also a member of parliament, and i have great respect for all genuinely democratic parliaments and i have great respect for your parliament. but the debate has shown precisely that on more difficult questions, notably the question of mr buttiglione's portfolio, there was a division. it is true that it exists: some of you are asking me to replace mr buttiglione and others are asking me not to replace him. there was no common position at your conference of presidents, quite the contrary. you sent me letters from all the committees. i have received two letters from mr buttiglione: one saying that he deserves your support and the other, by a margin of one vote, saying that he does not. in the face of this, i have to find a balance. we have the right to represent, i know and respect that, all the peoples of europe. i have the utmost respect for you. but the european union is a difficult balance. governments too have the right to represent the nation states and i, or the commission once in office, must think of the general european interest. i can tell you in all conscience that it was precisely in considering the general european interest, not the interest of this or that state, not the interest of this or that electorate, that i came to the conclusion that the best solution was, i think, the one i proposed to you. i have not given everything to those who wanted change, it is true, but i have largely met your concerns and have given fairly substantial guarantees as regards substance, fundamental rights, civil liberties, non-discrimination. i think i have been very clear and i can tell you that my commission, if it is worthy of your trust, will be the most advanced commission in terms of civil liberties and rights and non-discrimination, as i have shown in the composition of my commission. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. i expected ideological criticism, but the only criticism i did not expect of my commission was precisely that of a lack of commitment to human rights and non-discrimination. the commitment to these values is reflected in the composition of the commission itself. so i have to ask for your trust, because i've been looking for a balance. we must seek a balance, not only the balance between council, european parliament and commission, but also a balance within this parliament. are you, ladies and gentlemen who are criticizing my choice, sure that if i were to grant your request, the other part of the house would support the commission? after all the consultations i have had, particularly with the leaders of the political groups represented here, i am convinced that another way could open up a crisis. a crisis that, of course, can be solved: in a democracy, all crises can be solved. but i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is it normal that those of you who are most committed to the european cause should now be able to vote alongside the extremists who do not want europe, the members of the extreme right who are against europe, those who are absolutely against the progress of our european project... (applause) i would like to thank do you not find it strange that populists, those who are constantly fighting against the credibility of our institutions, should be able to vote against this commission at the same time as convinced europeans, as i am sure most of the members of this house are? i therefore, ladies and gentlemen, undertake to respect the principles of institutional balance. i have made a great effort to meet your legitimate concerns, but i must tell you, in all responsibility, that european culture is also a culture of tolerance and compromise. it's not about demanding everything from each other. (applause) i would like to thank i do not want to have a showdown with parliament because i know that you represent the peoples of europe, but what i can tell you is that we must go our separate ways and meet each other halfway through our concerns. that's it. some of them were against the commission from the beginning and now they have an opportunity to win wider support. but i say to you, ladies and gentlemen, if this commission does not have the necessary support, i think it would be very difficult to speak of victory for some or defeat for others. it would be a bad time for all of europe. i do not think we can really commit ourselves to what we have to do to harmonize the lisbon strategy, to the debate on the financial perspectives, to the cohesion of our union, to make this enlargement a great success, to assert ourselves as equals with the united states, to debate with russia at the summit scheduled for november. i think that would be bad for europe. i have therefore taken my responsibility and i believe that now everyone must take his. but i can tell you in all honesty that i'm here to work with you in a spirit of compromise. i ask you to show the same spirit of compromise for the sake of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, your majesty, it is a great honour for the european parliament to welcome you to this sitting of our parliament today. (applause) your presence here, your majesty, marks an important milestone in the relations between the european parliament, the european union and the netherlands. in the last few months we have seen the work that your country has done during the presidency of the council, which will continue until the end of the year. the dutch presidency has shown us by its good work that the size of a country is not related to the quantity and quality of the work it can do. it has been a huge job, tireless, with a pragmatic vision and always betting on the european union and the values on which it is based. your majesty, our institution is also aware of your personal work and your commitment to the most disadvantaged social classes. your dedication to those who have nothing or little has never ceased to impress us, and the love and deep respect your country shows you and your family is a testament to the great work you do. your majesty, it is my great honor to give you the floor of the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
her majesty queen beatrix of the netherlands. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, if we were to name something that is most common to all of us, it would probably be our mother tongue. all member states therefore attach great importance to the recognition of their languages in the union. it is with this conviction that i address you today in dutch. (applause from the left) at the same time, i am convinced that cooperation in europe will increasingly require us to make concessions in this area. if we do not want to turn the union into a tower of babel... (applause) we must try to understand each other as well as possible. in a multilingual europe, it is therefore of great importance that young people in particular are encouraged to learn one or more foreign languages in order to be able to speak directly to their fellow europeans. it is precisely in a europe which is uniting that good communication - direct contact between people - is the best basis for mutual understanding. (applause from the left) in 1950 the founding fathers took the first initiative to create the european communities, the forerunners of our union. the older generation was mainly interested in the idea as a way to eliminate war on our continent. for the younger generation, it was above all an inspiring ideal and a challenge. at the age of 23, i was asked to give a speech on this subject to an international group of young people who felt connected to this european ideal. they then challenged me not to stop at these words but to call on young people in other countries to think together about the future of europe. we have also started with great enthusiasm. europe then offered us a whole new perspective. we saw the opportunity to reach out to peers across borders, to establish contacts and to develop initiatives together. what had begun with such prosaic concrete building blocks as coal and steel grew into a movement that would break down the walls of division in europe, preserve peace and give our continent new resilience and energy - certainly not, as robert schuman said, as a saut dans l'inconnu - a leap into the unknown - but as a leap towards a common future, this time clearly defined and enshrined in treaties. we, the young people of that time, would gladly have participated in it and thus helped to shape our own future. i gave that speech at a rencontre européenne des étudiants, a european student congress, in toulouse. when i reread those words now, i recognize the enthusiasm that gripped us then. we admired the vision and courage of the founders of the european communities, but felt that the older generation was putting too much into words and too little into action to really bring about european unity. 'let us recognize,' i said at the final session of the congress, 'that instead of common ideals we have only problems and that it is these problems which today constitute the only european unity.' fortunately, 43 years later, those words are no longer true. european unity has been firmly established and has become a part of our lives. but little remains of the enthusiasm of those days. many are now critical and are particularly concerned about the obstacles which still have to be overcome. the implementation of agreements is sometimes more difficult than expected, and the consensus on the course to be followed does not always hold. fortunately, we can see that the problems that are looming are often the direct result of the rapid progress made in european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the original idea - the unification of europe - has taken an incredible flight, which would probably have surprised the great founding fathers of the years after the catastrophic second world war, despite their vision and ambitions. the union has abolished war on its territory, subordinated power to the rule of law and brought unprecedented prosperity to the participating countries. the unique european experiment has produced impressive results despite periods of delay and setbacks. the union now unites 25 european nations. as the first head of state to address your assembly since the accession of the new member states, i would like to extend a warm welcome to their representatives in this parliament. (applause) everyone who cares about the european ideal has been looking forward to this moment. your countries have always been part of europe. many have been freed from the years of oppression that divided our continent into two camps. we have the deepest respect for the conviction and the determination with which they have done so. we also admire the enormous efforts made by all the countries to undertake in a short time the many and often far-reaching preparatory measures necessary for their accession to the union. with their arrival the european family has become a - what is called in french so beautifully - famille nombreuse, an extended family. we expect a lot from this enlargement. the major contribution of the new member states may well be that they bring to the union the same enthusiasm that they showed when they liberated themselves from soviet domination and in the impressive efforts with which they prepared for membership. it is almost certain that the union as a whole will find strength and inspiration in this enthusiasm and the enthusiasm with which you are beginning this new chapter, often with the involvement of the younger generation. adjustment problems will always be faced by those who join a new family - especially if it is a family outside their own country. we have some experience in my family! the newcomer is usually asked to make the biggest adjustment, although it would be fairer if this task were shared between both parties. this is also true of the enlargement of our community. the new members will make an effort to join what is already in place in the union, but the older members must also show a willingness to adapt. this is not only the collegial attitude to be expected in this circle, it is also the shortest way to good cooperation. the fundamental principle in the european union is that it is based on a community of law. the countries which are part of it - including those which have traditionally been among the most powerful countries in europe - have placed themselves under the rule of law in the interests of their common future. this is a unique step in the history of europe. this also means respecting the rights of every individual citizen. this legal anchoring of the union is well symbolized by the oath taken by its highest officials before the full court of justice. our 25 countries are united - but 'in diversity'. they cherish their own identity, their own language and their own cultural heritage. this is the great distinctive strength of europe and it is in the interest of all of us to carefully preserve and protect it. the constant confrontation with other cultures makes us more aware of both our own culture and our common heritage. it also gives us a stronger defense against the spirit of materialism and mass culture that is unmistakably spreading throughout the world - and in ever more threatening forms. in order to function properly, the union needs to have clear powers in a number of areas. in other areas, where success depends less on the pooling of forces, it may make sense, as a counterbalance, to leave more room for governments, lower levels of government and citizens themselves to find their own solutions - either at national level or in euroregions. a good balance between central and delegated governance can help to avoid the union's appearance as a big bureaucracy that alienates the people. if responsibilities are clear and defined and carried out where they serve the community best, citizens will also better understand and respect the common interest. more than a pursuit of an end, europe is a history of formation. for some, the process is too slow, for others, it is too fast. success often brings about adversity. they need not discourage us. rather, they are incentives to keep going. sometimes it's just a matter of waiting for the right moment. rome wasn't built in a day. the same is true of the building that was founded in the verdrág of rome. our union gains strength when it opens itself up to countries which share our legal standards and strive to meet the criteria. this awareness can be an encouragement to conduct open, fair and impartial consultations with those who wish to join the union. if peoples are making efforts to make the difficult transition to democratic government as smooth as possible, they deserve extra appreciation and support. in three days, the constitutional treaty will be signed in rome. the preamble contains the solemn declaration that europe will continue to work for peace, justice and solidarity in the world. that is a bloodthirsty ambition. it is a sign that this organized europe feels itself bound to the ideal of a world that is also organized. we respect and support the united nations as a global structure which promotes the same principles in the world. peace is the first condition for all progress and development. peace is fragile and requires intensive care. the european union countries, which have managed to keep peace within their borders, are now supporting peace operations in other parts of the world and sending in their troops. the constitutional treaty also makes clear that our countries are taking their responsibility to the rest of the world and will continue to fight against poverty, inequality and injustice. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, there is a historical spiritual kinship on our continent, a sense of belonging together that makes us europeans. in the treaties we have signed, we have always made it clearer what kind of civilization we want to live in. our european institutions, including your parliament, are the pillars of that civilization. in fulfilling the challenging task of representing 450 million europeans, i wish you all the enthusiasm that europe demands of us all today. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, your majesty, for your words. (the sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m.)
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we said in the september plenary session that we had received a draft budget from the council which was to be interpreted more in the accounting sense than in the political sense. on thursday we shall be voting here in parliament on a clearly political reading of the budget. the commission's proposal is a political one because it responds to the political priorities with which the parliamentary groups and members presented themselves to the european elections on 13 june. and let us remember that it was parliament - honourable members - that stood for election, not the council. all the honourable members signed a contract with the electorate which includes the defence and promotion of measures which i hope will be reflected in this draft budget which i am presenting for approval. it is also political because it follows a usual strategy of the council, which is to finance its priorities rather than those of parliament. in other words, with the vote on thursday we will try to balance the interinstitutional balance, a balance without which the european union cannot function properly. i would like to say a few words, mr president, to the commissioner who is leaving her post as a member of the european commission today. a commissioner for budgets always has a very difficult role to play between parliament and the council - two budgetary authorities condemned to understand each other, even if, on certain occasions, it seems that agreement is very far away. the commissioner is largely responsible for the budgetary peace of these years and that is why, i should like to say, thanks to the agreements which the commissioner and her team have presented at the last minute, we have managed to save complicated situations. i hope that in your new life, beyond brussels, you will be as successful as you have been in these years. anyway, i want you to know that for all the people involved in the budget it's been a pleasure working with you. the virtues of patience and negotiation which the former commissioner - and hopefully the new commissioner - has had in this first reading of the european parliament will be lacking, because it differs greatly from the first reading which the council has had. as rapporteur and long-standing member of the committee on budgets for ten years, i know perfectly well the difference between the limits of what is required and the political reality. but there are certain starting points which are indispensable for this house. the real thing is for the european parliament to defend its priorities in the face of a budgetary situation which is very difficult and very restrictive. in general terms, we accept the commission's preliminary draft budget as amended by the committees responsible, the political groups and the individual members who have suggested amendments to us. you know that there has been a technical adjustment in the ceilings of headings 3, 4 and 5, which in themselves represent an almost insurmountable difficulty, to arrive at the figures for the 2004 budget. mr mulder, rapporteur for the 2004 budget, has done a brilliant job with the budget. i am trying to do the same this year, although i know that in any case the financial resources at my disposal are less than last year. the council has cut internal policies by eur 55 million compared with the preliminary draft budget, creating an impossible margin of eur 108 million. the amendments which you have tabled to this draft budget, ladies and gentlemen, amount to more than eur 350 million under heading 3 alone. and each and every one of those amendments is perfectly justified. the council has cut external policies by eur 129 million compared with the commission's preliminary draft budget, leaving a margin of eur 14 million, whereas the negative margin resulting in committees was eur 115 million and was already seriously damaging parliament's traditional external priorities. the amendments to this heading 4 amount to more than eur 400 million, and the rapporteur has to consider them partly because they are mainly in line with the wishes expressed by two important parliamentary committees: the committee on development and the committee on foreign affairs. in heading 5 - which was where agreement might have seemed easier in principle - the council cut the administrative expenditure of the commission and the other institutions by one and a half points below the level of the commission's preliminary draft budget, and it is very difficult - as the commissioner knows very well - to maintain an administrative budget which is calculated to the nearest millimetre, when another institution comes along and cuts it. thank god the commission - and i congratulate the commissioner again - has managed to make an extra effort to save without losing efficiency. in any event, i would like to say that the european parliament wants to replace the administrative expenditure entered in the preliminary draft budget. in these circumstances we have had to set a number of priorities. firstly, the lisbon strategy and its policies for growth and job creation, because they are in virtually all the political programmes with which the honourable members have presented themselves to this election. at a time of difficult and weak economic growth in the european union, it would be suicidal not to strengthen those policies which are precisely aimed at growth, development and job creation. we have therefore voted for amendments which increase by 80 million these lines in the lisbon strategy. secondly, in the communication strategy, because, above all, after the european elections and the abstention which occurred in these elections, because we have had an enlargement and we have to explain much better the idea of the union to the new citizens and because we have a constitutional debate on the future of the european union, this is another priority of parliament and that is why we have tabled an amendment worth 24 million euros. thirdly, the strengthening of security, the fight against terrorism and the consolidation of a european strategy on immigration and asylum. i think that this is a priority for all of you and it is unfortunate that it is not necessary to explain why this should be a priority for parliament and the european union in 2005. fourthly, as another of the fundamental priorities, there is the consolidation of the european union's external action, with particular emphasis on the fight against disease and poverty and attention to geographical areas. we are here following the principle that the european union's new external commitments cannot be achieved at the expense of parliament's traditional priorities, or what is the same thing, new commitments, new resources. fifthly, we want a very serious debate with the council on the financing of the decentralised agencies, which i shall discuss later. i would like to stress the support received from the political groups in translating these priorities into budgetary amendments. i have only received support, positive suggestions and support from the other coordinators. all of them have sacrificed other priorities, all of them have had to give complicated explanations to their colleagues about the decisions they have taken. and this is a message i want to send very clearly to both the commission and the council: this first reading expresses a clear and unequivocal political commitment to the november negotiations. we will not vote for a second reading that unilaterally abandons our priorities. if there are to be sacrifices, there will be for all institutions, for all. let us now review the reading by heading, remembering that the european parliament will take the vote next thursday as a whole and that, as such, when it comes to the negotiations, we will take it to the tripartite dialogues and to conciliation. we have voted for eur 50 779 million in commitment appropriations under heading 1 'agriculture'. we have been guided by the preliminary draft budget presented by the commission, although we have yet to secure the appropriations needed to meet the copenhagen criteria. in subheading 1 (b) we have a political priority which was expressed by the committee on budgets and which will therefore be included in the vote on thursday. we therefore raise the amount of eur 57 million above the ceiling of subheading 1 (b) to the heading for the establishment and training of young farmers. we have also increased appropriations for measures to eradicate animal diseases and food safety, because these are also parliament's priorities. we are voting on 42 378 million euro in commitment appropriations under heading 2. the main issue in this category is payments, the category in which the amendments we tabled on payments have the greatest impact. to avoid and absorb the outstanding appropriations for liquidation (ral), which, ladies and gentlemen, already amount to eur 122 000 million - which is one budgetary year - we have raised the preliminary draft budget on those lines where the ral double the annual commitments. the commission's request for payment, which we hope the council will take into account, is supported by us on the rest of the lines. we therefore raise our payment request to eur 3.8 billion. in heading 3 'interior policies', we voted for eur 9 012 million, leaving a zero margin and voting for an amendment with an asterisk. in any case, apart from the traditional horizontal amendments to performance facilities and improvements in implementation, what we are basically trying to do in this heading is to have a very serious discussion with the council on the funding of the agencies. look, ladies and gentlemen, from 2000 to 2005 the number of decentralised agencies - which was an idea of this parliament, i remember the budgetary procedure in which we adopted it - has increased from 7 to 23. the budget for the agencies has increased from eur 96 million to eur 281 million and we expect an increase of 20% for the next budget for 2005. the number of posts allocated to the agencies has increased from 418 in 2000 to 2695. this has led to a reduction in the ceiling of the heading of around eur 134 million to finance the other priorities. the rapporteur cannot accept this situation and what he is proposing to the council is a very serious negotiation. in order to bring this negotiation to the rapporteur for the agencies in this parliament, mrs haug, we have tabled an amendment which affects all the agencies and which involves a reduction of eur 40 million, bringing their budget back to the level of the 2004 budget. in this case, what we want to do is first of all to point out that the financing of any additional increase that the council intends to make to the newly established agencies has to be discussed with this parliament, because in the financial corset we are in, with the financial perspectives set from 2000 to 2006, this annual increase in the agencies already has to be done at the expense of parliament's priorities, and parliament has more political priorities than the agencies, although the agencies are of course something that needs to be financed and we will also commit ourselves to that. i would like to talk about the pilot projects. we have already agreed with the political groups on an acceptable package. some of them are of great interest, such as small and mediumsized enterprises, the pilot project on counter-terrorism, the nuclear arms reduction project and conflict prevention. i think we've come up with a very ambitious package. i would also like to highlight the parliamentary agreement on voluntary return of migrants, the aid for the fight against poverty-related diseases - to which we are giving 10 million euros, which i believe is a significant financial support - and the new strategy we have followed to divert certain pilot projects to the subject of studies. finally, under heading 4 we voted for eur 5 119 million plus an amendment with an asterisk. fundamentally, what happens in heading 4 is that we find ourselves again with having to finance iraq. this funding was not planned for 2005 and what is proposed is that we finance it at the expense of the traditional priorities of parliament, such as the foreign policy that parliamentarians voted for this year, the year before and in the year 2000. this can't be either. we have therefore, following the suggestions made by the committee on development and the committee on foreign affairs, requested that the new resources provided for in the interinstitutional agreement be used to finance this heading for an additional amount of eur 190 million. at the same time, we are also putting into question - or putting into the same package - the common foreign and security policy, which is very important to this parliament but whose financing must be seen in the general framework of what needs to be financed under heading 4. mr president, we are presenting a proposal which i hope will be voted on by a large majority of our colleagues on thursday and which will mean a serious negotiating position for the council, because, i repeat, what we are taking into consideration are the political priorities which this parliament has set itself. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. it has not been easy because, once again, we have to look at financing new priorities on the basis of the same resources and to the detriment of the traditional priorities of the european union's external action - i am of course referring to the balkans, to the policy of proximity, to cfsp actions, to action in the mediterranean, the middle east, latin america and asia. we therefore hope, mr president, that these difficulties, which recur every year, can be resolved by the revision of the financial perspective, so that we do not have to deal with these situations in a "jump-start" fashion in each budgetary year. we therefore fully support the rapporteur's approach of obtaining additional funding of 190 million - and i would add that the committee on foreign affairs has asked the commission to submit a report on the implementation of the democratic clause - and at the same time to step up action in the field of cooperation with the united nations. mr president, i would also like to reiterate the european parliament's demand that the commission consider the creation of a bi-regional solidarity fund between the european union and latin america which would not involve additional amounts. i would also like to join my voice in expressing my best wishes to commissioner schreyer for her new career, not forgetting that the commissioners are leaving but the officials are staying. i do not want to recall the atmosphere of the discussion we had this morning in the house, but i do ask you to be very attentive, to take into account and not to throw away the decisions and priorities which this parliament sets as the arm of the budgetary authority.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in beef and veal is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr garriga polledo, for his very sensitive approach to the subject of agriculture in next year's budget, and also the members of the committee on budgets and the committee on agriculture for all their cooperation and their work in making next year's agricultural part of the budget a magnificent one. the amendments have been to restore the preliminary draft budget presented by the commission, because the council had cut it arbitrarily, taking savings as the only criterion and without taking into account the needs of the various agricultural budget headings. i welcome the increase in aid to young european farmers and i would like to remind you once again that the average age of european farmers is over 50 years old and that this is the biggest problem facing european agriculture in the future. i would also like to reject the proposed cut in tobacco aid, reminding everyone that this issue has already been discussed in this house, that a 50% cut has been decided since 2010 and that from 2006 onwards it will start to be modulated with a minimum of 40%, so that the debate was closed at that time, to the satisfaction of those who are against tobacco growing. i therefore do not think that this matter should be brought up again in the current budgetary debate. i also think that amendment no 285, which is against aid for livestock farming, is not appropriate, because there is no legal basis for fighting livestock farming and thus creating discrimination. the debate, if it is to be opened, is that of bullfighting: these aids are not for spain's national holiday. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, this is not the time.
opinion of the committee on fisheries i would also like to thank the rapporteur-general for the budget, because i must also say that most of our amendments have been accepted by the committee on budgets itself. what were the main aims of the opinion of the committee on fisheries? firstly, to replenish the appropriations unjustifiably cut by the council in relation to the preliminary draft budget presented by the commission on two major subjects: the international fisheries agreements relating to the cuts in payments under the financial instrument for fisheries management. secondly, there was an amendment, which was also accepted by the committee on budgets, on the new community fisheries control agency, which has been of great interest to this parliament and which needs funding for its urgent launch. there are two amendments which have been rejected by the committee on budgets, on which i want to focus and which i want to put to you again. these are amendments nos 98 and 99. the first concerns the regional advisory councils and the second the increase in aid for the improvement of scientific information. mr president, in the case of the fisheries advisory councils, this has been the great innovation, the great novelty of the reform and the only instrument we have to channel the participation of the sector in the decision-making process. the aim of this parliament is that next year all the councils provided for in community legislation can be in operation and for that we need an increase of half a million euros in the budget. in the second case, the improvement of scientific information, neither the council nor the commission has foreseen an increase over last year. the sixth framework programme for research also provides for nothing. we think a million and a half budget for this issue is not too much to ask. mr president, i believe that we, unlike other committees, have only proposed an increase of three million euros over the preliminary draft budget; that is why i ask for your support for the amendments of the committee on fisheries.
mr president, i would like to join the criticisms already voiced, and above all against the council's budgetary irresponsibility. at the very moment when this house approved the current financial perspective, we knew very clearly that some headings were insufficient to cover the needs that were already known in 1999. category 4, 'external expenditure of the union' is a prime example. it was born underfunded, without the means to provide aid to kosovo, and every year the union undertook special intervention in some part of the world, as mr ferber also mentioned: kosovo, the republics of the former yugoslavia, afghanistan and, most recently, iraq. nothing was planned in the figures in may 1999, so that year after year, occasional revisions have been necessary. this parliament has had to accept some of the cuts proposed by the council to its traditional policies. after five budget years, these cuts represent a very significant amount for a development aid policy which is declining in relative terms, while we are told that we want a europe open to the world. although our assembly was able to increase the figures in berlin for category 5 administrative expenditure, we have had budgetary constraints which have, i think, resulted in a decrease in the efficiency of the commission's work. the council, however, does not hesitate to call for austerity in administrative expenditure, while allowing itself substantial annual increases. this year, the problems that were already apparent in category 3, 'internal policies', have definitely exploded. i will not repeat what has already been said here about the agencies; we are in broad agreement with that, but we want to have the means to finance them. in addition, during this period we have used the so-called flexibility instrument even to revise the ceiling for category 2. this is not serious, gentlemen of the council. of course there must be discipline and budgetary rigor, but what you have been doing for the last five years is not rigor, but sloppiness. the reduction of expenditure by a few hundred million euros is not, in this case, a saving, but a short-sighted accounting exercise. you create new priorities but, in order to put them into practice, you sacrifice some of the existing ones, taking as a criterion not to exceed a certain spending limit. this is not politics, this is accounting. and i think that politicians can provide more solutions to the problems of our society than accountants - with all the respect accountants deserve. in the face of the new financial perspective, i hope that the council will change its attitude, that it will have a broad-minded approach and realise that the budgetary policy of the union has much more important challenges than those of keeping expenditure below a percentage of gross national income, which, it seems, is the only objective that the council does have very clearly in mind. commissioner schreyer, i would of course like to add my thanks for your good work and wish you luck.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the european bureau for lesser–used languages is running short of funds. we have also been informed that no funding can be allocated for the parliamentary use of stateless languages. why has the ebner report, which was intended to improve real language plurality in europe and the development of lesser–used and minority languages in the eu, not yet been implemented? this morning we listened to the queen of the netherlands talking about the use of one's mother tongue as a right in a multilingual europe. what will happen to some mother tongues which have been forgotten by the eu? i am referring to catalan, my mother tongue and that of nine million europeans. is there any other parliament in the world where the president and first vice-president are not able to speak in their own mother tongue? should the union be more efficient as regards its budget? with apologies to interpreters and translators, if europe is not in favour of real language plurality, we should save money by using only one official language: english.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission would like to stress that the state aid which is being recovered, because it is considered to be illegal and incompatible, must be returned to the member state concerned and not to the commission. this is a confusion that sometimes occurs: whereas a fine imposed by the commission for a cartel or abuse of a dominant position is charged to the community budget, an order to repay illegal and incompatible state aid results in a transfer of money from the undertaking which unlawfully received it to the member state concerned, and not to the community budget. in accordance with the case law of the court of justice and article 10 of the treaty, where a member state encounters difficulties in implementing a commission decision requiring the recovery of unlawful and incompatible state aid, the member state and the commission must cooperate in order to find a solution to that difficulty. this is not a negotiation and the commission's decisions remain valid in all respects. such cooperation is currently taking place between spain and the commission. the commission does not intend to review the decisions in question as this would create a distortion of competition in the eu shipbuilding market. the commission has received numerous complaints from competitors in the european union in recent years concerning aid granted to spanish shipyards. moreover, it would appear to be legally impossible to authorise the aid in question, given the condition that no further aid be granted to spanish shipyards in the future, which was laid down by the council in 1997 and taken over by article 5 of the shipbuilding regulation applicable at the time the aid was granted.
madam president, commissioner, the fact is that the request for withdrawal or refund of aid is a very serious blow to the spanish naval sector, a strategic sector. you know as well as i do that the vast majority of the world's large vessels are subsidized directly or indirectly. in the european union itself, such aid is permitted and various formulas have even been sought through regional governments, through the unification of the private and military naval sectors. i therefore urge the commissioner and the political leadership of the european union itself to review this concept, which makes it impossible to subsidize the shipping sector, which is a strategic sector for europe, especially when we have the unfair competition of korea and the protectionism of the united states of america.
commission. thank you for this complementary question, which raises a point of general interest. the commission is perfectly aware of the importance of the shipbuilding industry in europe and also of the importance the shipbuilding industry attaches to a level playing field within europe, which would be at odds with an unregulated system of state aid to shipbuilding. there have been two recent visible signs of the importance the commission attaches to this sector. first, you mentioned unfair korean competition: you will certainly be aware of the commission's bold initiative - which unfortunately took a long time to be reflected in a council decision - firstly to bring korea to the wto and secondly, at the same time, to put in place a temporary defensive mechanism against unfair korean competition. the second visible sign of interest is the leadership 2015 programme, which was coordinated by the commission with the participation of representatives of the european parliament and the shipbuilding industry, to identify a number of proactive policies. this gives you an indication of how the commission, with the other european institutions, has tried to accommodate the needs of the sector, while at the same time trying to comply with the law when it comes to specific subsidies. as you know, in the case of izar there is a whole history of non­compliance with the rules.
madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether, in view of the international situation to which he has referred and the situation in europe with regard to the world trade organisation and unfair competition from korea, the commission would agree to review its current policy on state aid to the european shipbuilding industry.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting in brussels on 4 and 5 november. i call mr nicolaï on behalf of the council.
mr president, no one disputes the importance of tampere i: it set a direction, opened up an internal space and, as a result, a whole range of actions were initiated on all issues. those of us who have been active in promoting and participating in tampere i know that tampere ii must be radically different, it cannot simply be a multiannual programme with the same characteristics as the previous one. it must be able to choose, select, narrow down, specify, accentuate and, above all, prioritize. the verbs in tampere ii are different. we must move from a general fight against terrorism to a european political project capable of dealing with the fight against islamist terrorism; from general plans against terrorism we must explain what specific measures our fight against a specific organisation requires. i would like to say that our colleague, alain lamassoure, has just introduced into the budget of this parliament a european pilot project to combat islamist terrorism. that is the way i think the european council should go. the luxembourg prime minister, replacing the president-in-office of the european union, said that the fight against terrorism was the priority of our continent, as the attacks in madrid, the philippines and asia showed that it was a problem affecting us all. but it is not just a matter of foreign policy: it must have consequences for domestic policy. there will be no european foreign policy unless there is first a common internal policy within the european union; there will be no foreign policy in europe unless there is first an area of freedom capable of fighting terrorism.
the president-elect of the european commission, mr barroso, is here to speak, as ordered by the agenda.
president-designate of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i have asked for the floor at this point because i believe it is important that i share with you my analysis of the current situation and that i convey to you my position at this stage of our debate. i listened very attentively to yesterday's debate. i have had extensive contacts with the group leaders, and i have also spoken with the president–in–office of the council. i have come to the conclusion that if a vote were to take place today, the outcome would not be positive for the european institutions or for the european project. (mixed reactions)in these circumstances i have decided not to submit a new commission for your approval today. (loud and sustained applause)i need more time to look at this issue, to consult with the council and to consult further with you, so that we can have strong support for the new commission. it is better to have more time to get it right. (applause)these last few days have demonstrated that the european union is a strong political construction and that this parliament, elected by popular vote across all our member states, has a vital role to play in the governance of europe. (loud applause)i was honoured to receive your support as president-designate of the commission in july. at that time i committed myself to working actively with you in the european interest. i renew that commitment today. i believe that we can agree on our common commitment to reinforcing the democratic nature of european integration. in that spirit, i hope we can arrive at an outcome in the next few weeks that will permit us to take forward our work in the european union. you can count on me. i can always offer you loyal, constructive cooperation for the good of europe and the european union project.(loud and sustained applause)
thank you, mr barroso. we are still in an unexplored political terrain, because we are in a situation that we could not have foreseen either. the treaties clearly state that the new commission must take office on 1 november and that the european parliament must first decide on a proposal. but parliament cannot, of course, take a decision if there is no proposal. mr barroso tells us that there is no proposal. i think it would be good to know the council's position, because if there is no proposal, the council also has something to say. (whispers and applause)
council. mr president, members of parliament, we understand the situation. (laughter and applause)the consequence of this situation is that the current prodi commission will stay in office for as long as is necessary. (applause)
before the president proceeds with his remarks, it might be useful to listen to the chairmen of the political groups. (protests) i think i understand that there is a question of order. mr pannella will now take the floor on a point of order.
this is not a question of order. mr pannella, you do not have the floor. i call mr schulz.
ladies and gentlemen, the presidency considers it essential to suspend the sitting and ask the political groups to meet, but before the plenary session resumes and after the political group meetings, i shall convene the conference of presidents. groups, conference of presidents and plenary we shall meet again in plenary at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
i call mr rogalski to order.
it is clear that this is not a question of order. the speakers are the chairmen of the political groups. i would like to ask you to take the floor first.
thank you very much. we have finished the scheduled speeches by the chairmen of the political groups. mr. kilroy-silk, you have the floor for a point of order.
madam member, this is not a question of order. i call mr nicolaï, president-in-office of the council.
i need advice. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your time. the presidency and the council are not formally an official party to the debate between parliament and the new commission president. we are of course very closely involved in this debate and in this situation. we have been in close contact with all the parties involved in this debate. in response to mr watson's remarks, i can assure you, mr president, and the members that we have not missed a word of what you have said as members of this house on this important matter, as i have said this morning. of course, mr president, the council is partly responsible in the present situation. we will also assume that responsibility by, as mr barroso has already indicated, entering into consultations as soon as possible with the new commission president, with the other members of the european council, in the hope of promoting an early solution to this situation. i would like to repeat, mr president, what i said this morning, namely that the european parliament has, of course, every right to assume its responsibility, to define its position and to make its choice. i have also said that the present confrontation between parliament and the incoming commission can also be seen as a proof of a mature european democracy, and that i am of course fully confident that the position which the european parliament will take will be considered. i also emphasized this morning that the presidency and the council have full confidence in mr barroso as the next president of the commission. i also expressed my sympathy with the step which mr barroso has just taken. in conclusion, mr president, i therefore trust that a solution to the situation will be found as soon as possible. i would add that your work is continuing, the work of the council and the presidency is continuing, as is the work of the commission. it is therefore important to know that the current prodi commission will continue to work so that the citizens of europe do not suffer the consequences of this situation. the work will continue at all levels and in all institutions, and the prodi commission will therefore continue to carry out its duties as long as necessary.
commission mr president, thank you very much for allowing me to speak. i think that's all that's been said. first of all, i would like to thank all those who supported me, all those who understood the purpose of my approach. i hope to work with you for the next five years. i guess you could say we're getting to know each other. i want to tell you that i'm a man of compromise. that's my deep philosophy. i want to say that i am in favour of a 'coalition', if i may say so, of all those who are in favour of the european project. this is an important point. i have already mentioned this at the meeting of the chairmen of the political groups, when the question of politicization was discussed. i am a member of a political family, i have the great honour of being a member of the political family of konrad adenauer, robert schuman and alcide de gasperi, but i also believe that we must rally all those in the socialist group, the liberal group and other groups who are in favour of europe and want to work together. my commission is not a partisan commission, i want to tell you that. it is a commission with christian democrats and members of the european people's party, with socialists and liberals, and also with a member of the union for europe of nations group. it is a pluralistic commission. europe is a pluralistic reality, europe is a reality of tolerance, europe is a reality of balance, europe is a reality of consensus in favour of our citizens! (applause) i would like to thank so i did what i had to do. i came here with my team, i rationally assessed what was best, not just for the commission, but for all the european institutions. and that is one aspect i would like to stress. it is true that sometimes, as is natural in political debate - i am also a politician - we say: we have won, and the others have lost. i do not see institutional relations within the european union as a victory of parliament over the council or a victory of the commission over parliament. i don't think of them that way. this isn't a football game! i believe that we are, on the contrary, mutually reinforcing. as has been said, and this is very good, we need a strong parliament, and a strong commission too. it's obvious. we cannot establish our authority at the expense of other institutions. and in this connection i would also like to highlight the council, because the council is the representative of the member states, and i believe that they are all democrats who were elected by their citizens. in short, we must respect all our institutions and that is the way i intend to proceed if i have, of course, your support and your support. we need this culture of respect between the different institutions to strengthen all those in europe who are in favour of the idea of compromise. i don't think you can think that what you gain is what the other person loses. today, i believe we have made possible a more fruitful cooperation, a wider cooperation. we need, ladies and gentlemen, because we have not talked so much about the fundamental problems of europe, we need wider support to advance our priorities in europe. for my part, i am prepared to work with you, of course, in a spirit of mutual respect, loyalty, always putting the european project, the project of our citizens, at the top of our priorities. (applause from the left)
thank you very much, mr barroso. after having heard you, the council and the chairmen of the political groups, the presidency draws the following conclusions from what has been said here. we are not dealing with a motion to delay the vote. if so, parliament would have to decide whether or not to accept this request. but it's not the case. we are not being asked to postpone the vote, we are being told that there is still no proposal to vote on. mr barroso needs more time to work it out, and the council understands that, accepts that and will therefore keep the prodi commission in office until we can debate and vote on a proposal. so, at this point, there's nothing to vote on. it is also pointless to vote on the motions for resolutions which were linked to the debate on the commission. i would ask you, mr barroso, to read the motions for resolutions carefully, even though we are not going to vote on them. (applause) i think you will find in them elements that can help you in the work that remains to be done. there is therefore no vote on any question. (protests) when i say that i invite mr barroso to read, i also invite him to read the proposals put forward by the epp-ed group, all of them. i can only invite mr barroso and the council to submit a proposal to parliament as soon as possible, without setting a deadline, and to keep us informed of the progress of their work on this matter. if there are no comments, the sitting shall be closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
council. mr president, the first summit between the eu and india took place in lisbon in 2000. since then, our relationship has undergone a fast and dynamic development. our cooperation covers a wide range of subjects, from economic to cultural, and we address local, regional and global issues. the framework of our strategic partnership, set up in 2000, now really has flesh on the bones. the netherlands presidency is very much looking forward to hosting the forthcoming summit in the hague on 8 november. this will give a further boost to our relations. what do we want to get out of this summit? the first thing we should do is to set a deadline for the completion of a comprehensive eu-india action plan for a strategic partnership. this action plan should be approved at the next summit in 2005. this will reflect the ambition to further develop eu-india relations in several key areas, such as cooperation in the un and other multilateral fora; conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction; cooperation on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery; the fight against terrorism and organised crime; dialogue on democracy and human rights and eu support for india’s achievement of the millennium development goals. the commission’s communication, which was published last june, and the indian reaction to it form the basis for this action plan. there are a number of global challenges that we should address at the summit. both the eu and india are committed to strengthening the role of the un. we should therefore emphasise that an effective multilateral system based on the principles of international law, with a strong united nations at its centre, is essential for achieving peace and international stability. in addition to 'old' challenges, we also have to address new ones, such as the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, hiv/aids and the fight against terrorism. on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we should increase our cooperation, particularly with a view to reinforcing the consistency and effectiveness of export control measures for dual-use goods. the eu wants to strengthen the political dialogue with india in this field and on issues relating to weapons of mass destruction. we hope india will react positively. the european union is very concerned about the threat posed by the spread of hiv/aids in india. the international conference on population and development formulated a clear agenda on the fight against aids, and in 2001 the un general assembly adopted a declaration of commitment on aids. we want to reiterate the importance of implementing the agenda and declaration. on terrorism, we now have a clear resolution from the un security council. the eu will confirm to the indians our commitment to the fight against terrorism. we will also inform them of the concrete eu action to combat terrorism. at the summit, we will also be discussing international and regional developments. i will focus on the latter. the eu has an interest in a stable, peaceful and prosperous south asia. looking to this region, we are encouraged by the developments in saarc and the ongoing and genuine efforts to take forward the composite dialogue between india and pakistan. at various meetings at both political and official level the eu has expressed its full support and its satisfaction with the steps taken by both countries. at the summit, the eu will encourage india to continue to make progress in agreeing on substantive confidence-building measures, inter alia through improvements in transport, trade and economic links and more personal contact across the line of control. but we cannot expect rapid progress: a cautious, gradual approach is needed. we are encouraged by what we see as shifting parameters in india-pakistan relations during the last months. the eu hopes that both sides will continue to engage fully in this process, for instance through consolidation of the line of control ceasefire. we also welcome the agreement of both sides to explore possible options for a peaceful, negotiated settlement of the jammu and kashmir issue as part of the wider process of the composite dialogue between both countries. this is critical to the future of the process. of course, pakistan must continue to make every effort to curb terrorist infiltration across the line of control and cross-border terrorism. but at the same time india needs to take further action to reduce human rights violations. improved social and economic quality of life in jammu and kashmir is important in sustaining peace. india should continue to take into account the views of local leaders, representing a broad spectrum of kashmiri stakeholders. indian involvement is also needed when it comes to the situation in afghanistan, nepal, sri lanka and burma, issues that we will also discuss at the summit. the eu is ready to express its commitment to the reconstruction and stabilisation of afghanistan in partnership with the afghan government and is counting on india to do the same. peace and stability is also needed in nepal and sri lanka. we will encourage the indians to use their influence to contribute to this goal. economics form an important part of eu-india relations. therefore, we also want to give some signals in this field. we want to intensify bilateral cooperation in order to facilitate and expand trade and investment flows. the european union is india’s first partner in terms of trade and actual investment inflows and is in the front rank of its partners in the field of economic cooperation. we want to maintain that. the summit will also provide an opportunity to express our commitment to the multilateral trading system and the desire to make progress in the doha development round. we also want india to participate in galileo, our global satellite navigation system, and we want to discuss the negotiations on a maritime agreement. although the first summit took place only four years ago, the european and indian cultures go back thousands of years. they first came into contact at the time of alexander the great. it is therefore only natural to stress the cultural dimension of our relationship by the signing of a common declaration on cultural relations. i would like to conclude by saying that eu-india relations are improving all the time. the relationship covers many areas and it is bound to succeed. the summit on 8 november will prove this.
commission. mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to talk to you about eu-india relations. india is a partner that deserves special attention, and this commission has made a point of bringing the relationship with india to new heights during its mandate. our objective has been a more comprehensive and forward-looking european policy towards india, and this is taking shape. looking at the state of our relations today, it is clear that they have come a long way since our first summit in lisbon in june 2000. in particular, we have deepened and strengthened our dialogue in all areas. at last year's eu-india summit it was agreed that we should seize the opportunity to develop our friendship into a strategic partnership. as global actors with strong democracies and common values and with many years of growing trade and political links, there is much to build on. india has a formidable economic potential, as it looks set to emulate china’s economic growth. it plays an increasingly assertive role on the international stage. it is engaged in a process of conciliation with pakistan. for these and many more reasons, the european union simply cannot afford to miss out on opportunities for cooperation. the commission has set out proposals for doing just that. the communication on an eu-india strategic partnership identifies the challenges, opportunities and expectations for strengthening our international, economic and development cooperation with india. firstly, it is important to recognise that our relationship is no longer just about trade. we are both more active on issues such as promoting peace, security and democracy in the world, where we hold common views. the european union and india could work more effectively together to support multilateralism and the role of the united nations. we could strengthen our cooperation in conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction, and in addressing global concerns such as non-proliferation and terrorism. certainly, the european union and india should enhance their dialogue on human rights and democracy, bilaterally and internationally. the european union and india could also work more closely on promoting regional peace, prosperity and stability. in areas where the european union is involved in the peace process and reconstruction, such as afghanistan and sri lanka, dialogue and cooperation with india could be stepped up. the role of the european parliament is crucial. we encourage contacts with the indian lower house and suggest, in particular, regular meetings between delegations from both sides. the planned visit of members of the european parliament to india early next month is excellent news. india could become a major economic partner, and much remains to be done to tap the full potential of the european union and india’s trade and investment relationship. india has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies for over a decade. its growing prosperity is attracting increased attention from european business. india should assure its climb to economic prosperity by continued economic reforms, including greater market access and better regulation. we should therefore initiate a policy dialogue in important areas of economic management, such as industrial policy, the environment or competition. we intend to promote strategic dialogues - ranging from regulatory dialogue to cooperation in research - in sectors such as information technology, transport, energy, biotechnology or space science. we want to foster progress on trade and investment. this includes strengthening the multilateral trading system from which we have both benefited. the recent agreement on a south asia free trade agreement takes explicit inspiration from the eu process. we stand ready to offer assistance based on our experience. mutual understanding is an area that has been neglected for too long. educational exchanges will receive a boost through a scholarship programme in the framework of erasmus mundus. when we hold the next summit in the hague in early november, we will adopt a declaration on cultural cooperation, hoping to make this area a priority for our future cooperation. the council has produced conclusions endorsing the main thrust of the communication, and india has responded with a very positive strategy paper. together with the excellent recommendations of parliament, all elements are in place for the fifth summit to take the necessary decision to open a new era in our relations and to upgrade the relationship with india to a strategic partnership. political leaders are expected to task officials to prepare a detailed action plan and a new political statement for the sixth summit in 2005. implementation can only work with sustained and committed support from all actors, including the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we want terrorism to be eradicated one day, we must not only use force but also intelligence, and intelligence tells us that very often the plague we face is led by educated and trained people who find a magnificent breeding ground among the damned of the earth. the combination of extreme ideology and hunger is certainly explosive. i think it is therefore essential that we should not let our guard down but deal simultaneously with the various causes of terrorism. we are living in a time of turbulent international relations, and the union, which is seeking to consolidate its institutions with the adoption of the european constitution, can play - if we have the political will to do so - a prominent role in promoting peace, stability and justice - including ecological justice - on our troubled planet. i say this in the days ahead of the decision whether the american superpower will choose on 2 november a path of constructive cooperation and respect for the opinions of others, including international institutions, or will turn in the opposite direction. in any case, it should be borne in mind that, despite the enormous hegemonic weight of the great american power, which can be benevolent or hostile, there are, in addition to the european union, ascendant states in international relations, such as, to varying degrees and by way of example, china, india, japan, brazil or south africa, to name a few. close, respectful and mutually beneficial cooperation between the union and some of them can help to stabilise a prosperous, just and peaceful south asia. i do not think it is necessary to comment on the suitability of india to hold a permanent seat on the united nations security council, to which it is aspiring, as we all know. however, the very fact that such a circumstance is on the table clearly indicates not only the need to address un reform, but also the imperative to consider the structural injustice that perverts the relationships between human beings and the peoples of the planet. the fact that in the 21st century there is still a need to launch an alliance against hunger, as several countries have recently done at the united nations headquarters, points to the disaster of international social organization in which we are immersed. we have relations with india going back to the 1960s. india was one of the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with the then european economic community. it is no cliché to say that this great country is the world's largest democracy - despite its possible shortcomings and flaws, this statement is a reality. the union is india's most important trading and investment partner, but india ranks 14th on the list of european union trading partners - by the way, just behind china, brazil and south africa. for all these reasons, we must take a positive view of the commission's communication proposing the establishment of strategic cooperation and of the positive conclusions of the council of 11 october. i think we can all be pleased that this is a subject on which the three institutions agree, which will facilitate and enrich the way towards such strategic cooperation with suggestions and nuances. i therefore believe that the three institutions can and must, within their respective spheres of competence, but always in coordination, work to promote sustainable development and the proper management of globalisation, among other things, and encourage new delhi to take a determined stand against poverty, for which it can count, i am sure, on the union's collaboration. that india is a country that excels in important technologies and that, at the same time, 300 million of its inhabitants live in poverty is frankly a difficult reality to digest. i am convinced, however, that the proposed strategic cooperation, which will be properly outlined at the bilateral summit on 8 november, will contribute to finding solutions and to sharing an effective multilateralism in international relations.
mr president, i rise firstly as a long-standing advocate of the intensification of our political and economic relations with that great multilingual, multiethnic and multi-religious democracy which is india and secondly, after our rapporteur on the committee on international trade, mr papastamkos, has explained our position as a committee, to point out not only the growing importance of our economic relations - and i recommend that you read today's le monde editorial, which explains how indian companies are becoming increasingly important from the point of view of multinational development - but also that the european parliament, together with the interparliamentary union, is developing an initiative from seattle, which we have already specified, and which, from 24 to 26 november, we will be hosting in the european parliament an interparliamentary conference to accompany the wto conferences. i have to say, after having chaired the parliament's delegation in geneva two months ago, that we have drawn up a regulation, adopted jointly by indian, chinese, african, latin american and european parliamentarians, and i believe that this is an important way of developing democracy in globalisation.
i need advice. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i indicated that the formal separation of church and state is not the problem when i also read the commission's comments and opinion. the debate is, was and will be about the actual implementation of the separation of church and state, so freedom of religion is one of the issues that is being closely watched and will continue to be watched when it comes to developments in turkey. in reply to the comments - because i do not think it was a question from mr evans - i would like to state emphatically that the presidency's position on religion as a criterion for accession is not in question. religion is not part of the copenhagen criteria or any other political criteria. i am determined to make that clear here in principle.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. the council reminds the honourable member of the statements made by the presidency on behalf of the european union on 14 september last on albania and stresses that it never comments on public statements such as those referred to in this question. thank you, sir.
the majestic eagle 04 exercise was held from 11 to 16 july last. it should be noted that the european union does not conduct field exercises in the context of the esdp, i.e. exercises involving the use of troops such as those mentioned in the member's question. this type of exercise, involving the deployment of national or multinational forces, remains the exclusive responsibility of the member states. as regards the environmental impact of low frequency sonar at sea, the council is aware of ongoing studies on the possibility of whale, dolphin or other marine animals being injured, deafened or losing their sense of direction.
while the european union has certain obligations in international matters, such as the habitats directive, i recognise that matters relating to military manoeuvres are national competence. we are talking about an area in which we are currently developing a common foreign and security policy. the concern of this member is that at the moment the courts in the united states are preventing such manoeuvres from being carried out near the coasts of the united states, which means that military manoeuvres, which are mainly carried out by the united states, are being moved towards the coasts of the european union. the second question i would like to ask is whether the president-in-office of the council thinks that, from the council's point of view and within the framework of cooperation on the common foreign and security policy, it would be appropriate for us to start taking a position, at least in the form of recommendations, to prevent this export of pollution from the united states to waters close to the european union.
mr president, last sunday, in a statement to the most important newspaper in my country, mrs loyola de palacio said that spain is losing weight in the european union until it becomes an appendage of france and germany. in the past few days we have said in this house that everyone has the right to think and to express his opinions, whatever they may be, but when that opinion clashes with the responsibility of a vice-president of the commission, putting three member states in question, we consider it very serious. because we consider it an insult to my country, spain, and probably to two other countries of the union, i ask the vice-president of the commission to make a precise correction and the president-in-office, mr prodi, to take action on the matter.
mr president, commissioner, let me stress that in a developed part of the world such as ours, with a market economy, the best explanation for the feminization of poverty is the persistence of different patterns of employment based on gender. if, as has been said, women's wages are on average much lower than those of men, it is absolutely necessary to take effective measures to deal directly with the causes of this discrimination. it is true - and you have said it, madam commissioner - that the employment discrimination suffered by many women is the result of having had less access to education and training and also, in many cases, of the difficulties in reconciling family and working life, which has, without doubt, a clear impact on their jobs and on their pay, but it is no less true that many women suffer directly from covert wage discrimination, either because they are hired en masse in lower paid jobs, or because wages are set below the categories occupied by women in the majority or because women are encouraged to be hired on the basis of reducing their rights. it is therefore urgent, madam commissioner, to prevent, detect and eliminate these forms of discrimination too in order to achieve real equality of pay. i would also like to mention, albeit very briefly, the increasing emigration of women. for years, men have been the main source of migration, while women have only entered our territory for family reunification. however, the model is changing rapidly and in recent years more and more women are migrating individually and directly to integrate into the labour market. the high number of single migrant women with unshared family responsibilities, who are facing double discrimination on the grounds of origin and gender, requires, madam commissioner, that much more specific attention be paid to migrant women. the commissioner, ending the increasing feminization of poverty is an issue we must all be strongly committed to, because let us not forget that it is a matter of justice and well-being for all.
mr president, this is the second debate we have had in parliament this year on the subject of the zifis. in the previous debate, commissioner solbes already announced to us that this study would be carried out, and i am pleased that commissioner schreyer has confirmed what commissioner solbes said and that the study will be completed before the end of the year. at this point, the scientific evidence is clear. the university of las palmas de gran canaria has carried out very detailed studies on the subject and it is clear that the low frequency sonars used in naval military maneuvers cause damage to animals. what is needed now is to move, as mr sacconi has said before, from the stage of studies to the stage of concrete proposals. it is up to the commission to put forward proposals to the member states, concrete proposals, and i hope that in the next debate we will have in this parliament we will have those proposals on the table. i therefore conclude by asking the commission to submit these proposals very soon, that is to say immediately after it has those studies in hand, so that next year, without too much delay, parliament can study them and recommend to the states the decisions to be taken.
mr president, it must be made very clear that it is impossible to restrict the effects of sonar geographically. i do not know what the epp group wants to do: perhaps what they should do is distribute helmets for dolphins and whales. in the canary islands this summer a number of ziphiles have died, clearly due to the effects of sonar. the greens/efa group has been denouncing this for a long time. the spanish government and the ministry of defence have acknowledged the problem and the canary islands government recently admitted that this type of ailment is related to the use of active mid-frequency sonar. last april, the government and the ministry of defence signed a collaboration agreement to prevent the mass stranding of the zifios that is taking place in the canary islands. this agreement is very significant, because it shows concern and shows that the ziphios are affected by the sonar. what we find absolutely unacceptable is the amendment tabled by the ppe to restrict the use of high-intensity naval radar/sonar only to areas defined as sensitive marine habitats, which is really impossible. we call for the rejection of this amendment.
the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2005 - draft amendments and proposed modifications to the appropriations for section iii of the draft general budget for the financial year 2005 relating to the commission - draft amendments to sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii and viii of the draft general budget for the financial year 2005 relating to the european parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor - draft general budget for the financial year 2005 (section iii) - draft general budget for the financial year 2005 (other sections) - draft general budget for the financial year 2005 (other sections)
general rapporteur. - mr president, before we begin the vote, i want to say that we have already come a long way in the committee on budgets. i would like to thank all the colleagues from all the political groups for their valuable cooperation, to remind them that we have dealt with over 760 amendments in the committee on budgets and to express our special thanks to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandowski, who, as a newcomer to this parliament and to the committee on budgets, has done a great deal of coordination work. mr president, as every year, in a budgetary exercise of this magnitude some technical corrections must always be made. i'm going to go over the technical corrections. amendment no 592, in line 18 03 05, has been withdrawn. amendment no 65, to line 04 02 12, is accepted with an increase of eur 1 million. amendment no 66, to line 04 12 15, is accepted with an increase of eur 1 million. amendment no 67, in line with the 04 03 03 01 line, is accepted with an increase of another million euro. amendment no 69, under the heading 04 03 03 03, is accepted for an amount of eur 600 000. amendment no 599, to line 18 06 04 02, is accepted with an increase of two million euros instead of one million euros. an additional amount of eur 1 million should be entered in line 16 05 01 in addition to the result of the separate vote in this line. the comments of amendment no 137 should be included. a separate request for a vote has been tabled for amendment no 354, on line 18 03 04, which will be considered withdrawn if the technical corrections to which i have referred earlier are adopted. consequently, this amendment will be covered by the vote on block 4. i propose, mr president, that we vote on these technical corrections.
i am grateful to you for not insisting on a roll-call vote, which would undoubtedly delay our work considerably. your position is clear and will be recorded in the minutes. we shall therefore vote on these technical amendments. before the vote on amendment no 586:
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but if you ask me now for the recommendation to be voted on, i recommend that it be voted on now and in favour.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if amendments nos 68 and 343 are adopted, i shall propose an oral amendment with a similar text, which i shall read later, once these amendments have been adopted, because i need to change the text which we shall have to approve in the comments. i shall now read it to you so that we can be clear about what we will be voting for if these amendments are accepted. the wording of the oral amendment i am proposing is as follows: 'it is envisaged that part of this appropriation will be used to finance the organisations mentioned in the amendment within the framework of the provisions of the financial regulation'.
general rapporteur. - mr president, before proceeding to the vote on the next block, i should like to announce that the vote on amendment no 68 was not as we had recommended in the committee on budgets and, in the absence of confirmation of the figures, we have a problem, a margin of eur 1.5 million. we're above the category three threshold. we will have to check the figures and then see if we can make any adjustments for the second reading. but i want to announce that, right now, we are over the top in this category.
the rapporteur-general it is a point of order, mr president, and therefore does not require a qualified majority. (applause) i would like to thank
according to the information we have received from the house's services, we will apply the qualified majority because that is what the amendment requires, which affects the whole line.
the rapporteur-general mr president, if the house's services tell you that the whole amendment is voted on by qualified majority, the house's services are responsible for voting on it. i would have preferred, of course, that we had voted on this part - as a comment - not by qualified majority, but by simple majority.
if you agree - perhaps the matter deserves some further reflection - we shall postpone the vote on this matter until the end and then we shall have the opportunity to reflect and the services of the house can consider it in more detail.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask for a meeting with the coordinators and for them to give me a mandate so that i can reduce this 580 000 euro in some way and prevent the margin from being exceeded. this is what i propose: a mandate to allow me to cut eur 580 000 from some of the lines to which we have voted amendments.
it's a very reasonable request. better to scratch this small amount and not find ourselves in a situation that can bring us problems. so if there are no objections, you are authorized to adjust this amount together with the coordinators. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is as follows: duration: one hour maximum (rule 50 of the rules of procedure)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, the time limit on our speeches makes it impossible to go into the substance of the matter. that is why i prefer to declare my support for the text of the resolution - which sums up the essence of our proposals - rather than express my full agreement with what my colleague, mr van den berg, has said, and i will certainly not refer to the people's group by asking them to vote this or that, because i think that everyone takes a picture and identifies with their positions and i think that, in matters like this, it is very good that we see who we are and that public opinion and organisations make a distinction between each other. i would like to add two comments. the first is to draw attention to the fact that, unlike antipersonnel mines, the manufacture of cluster bombs requires very complex technology, technology which is only available to highly industrialized countries, and that puts the member states of the union in the crosshairs of responsibility. but, in addition, the launching of these bombs requires a highly sophisticated air and ground infrastructure, as well as specific knowledge on the part of military personnel capable of firing these devices. and there too our countries clearly have a role to play, both in the logistical preparation and in the training of military personnel. in the hearing we had - and it was a magnificent one - i was disappointed that there was a certain difficulty in identifying by name those countries in the world, european or not, which are at the starting point of the armaments we are denouncing here. i would also have thought it appropriate to mention these names and the corresponding responsibilities in our resolution. and that brings me to my second comment, to reiterate the commitment that the european parliament must make to spare no effort so that what we approve today does not remain on wet paper. there are specific proposals which have been put forward by the organisations which must remain our permanent partners in this fight. for example, we think it would be an interesting idea to appoint a rapporteur to monitor, on behalf of the european parliament, what is being done in our countries and on the international scene in relation to the elimination of cluster bombs.
commission mr president, the commission shares your concern about the humanitarian, economic and social problems posed by the presence of a whole series of unexploded devices such as cluster bombs which are the relics of conflicts. we are also concerned about the particular difficulties involved in cleaning up areas contaminated by this specific type of active munition. you know that the european union has always been a strong supporter of the protocol on explosive remnants of war, the united nations convention on the prohibition and restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons. the protocol must now be ratified by all the member states so that it can enter into force as soon as possible, which, as you know, has not yet been done. the commission is trying to remedy the problems of cluster bombs, and this is mainly in two areas: firstly, i would mention demining operations. these operations, as well as risk awareness and victim assistance actions, are carried out under community instruments, in particular the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on anti-personnel mines, and often include the de facto removal of other unexploded ordnance. this is what we are doing in laos, cambodia, kosovo, afghanistan and iraq, to name a few. these efforts are clearly far from sufficient. while this debate gives me the opportunity, on behalf of the commission, to thank parliament for its unwavering support for the anti-personnel mine regulation, i must nevertheless remind you that the use of the budget for mine clearance operations and the use of expertise in this field are not intended to deal with the problems of all the explosives that remain to be neutralised, including cluster munitions or anti-vehicle mines. the commission's priority remains the achievement of the objectives set out in the mine ban treaty, which expires in 2010. the second part of our intervention has just been launched: the implementation of the pilot project on small arms and light weapons and explosive remnants of war. i would also like to thank parliament for giving the commission the opportunity to examine closely all the issues and problems relating to both explosive remnants of war and the spread of small arms and light weapons. this pilot project should enable the commission to propose measures to give the union, in the field of small arms and light weapons and explosive remnants of war, a level of control, know-how and authority equal to that which it has acquired in favour of the regulation on anti-personnel mines. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the commission's reaction. we will work with all the actors concerned to ensure that an integrated and comprehensive humanitarian approach is put in place to the whole range of problems posed by what is commonly called war debris and what might be more appropriately called war waste.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda now includes the following six motions for resolutions tabled by the following members: - véronique de keyser and pasqualina napoletano, on behalf of the pse group, on iran (b6-0107/2004); - cecilia malmström, on behalf of the alde group, on iran (b6-0113/2004); - angelika beer, daniel marc cohn-bendit, véronique de keyser, hélène flautre, monica frassoni and joost lagendijk, on behalf of the green group, on the violation of human rights in iran (b6-0116/2004); - michael gahler and bernd posselt, on behalf of the ppe-ed group, on iran (b6-0118/2004); - andré brieber, giusto bratania, umberto guidoni, tobias pflüger and eva svensson, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on iran (b6-0126/2004); - muscardini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in iran (b6-012/2004);
commission mr president, as you are probably aware, the general affairs and external relations council recently adopted conclusions on human rights in iran. these conclusions are unequivocal: despite the commitment of the iranian government to strengthen human rights and promote the rule of law, very little progress has been made. this is why the union took the decision in principle in september to co-sponsor the resolution on the human rights situation in iran which canada intends to propose to the united nations general assembly. it is, however, crucial, in our view, and i am sure most members here agree, that we continue to try to establish a constructive and long-term relationship between the european union and iran. in this context, dialogue with iran is an important element in promoting the democratic process and we are determined to continue this dialogue, which was launched in december 2002 and which focuses in particular on human rights. it is a useful tool for contacts, not only with influential representatives of the judiciary, but also with representatives of iranian civil society. i would also like to highlight the visits that the un special rapporteurs on human rights have made to iran since the dialogue began. i have heard mrs de keyser tell us that this dialogue is about words. i have heard mrs malmström suggest that we should, in a way, put an end to it. this is not our position, not because of the magnitude of the results achieved at this stage - such results can only be assessed in the long term - but rather because of the lack of convincing alternatives. we have also engaged in discussions with iran on economic and trade issues and held a number of negotiating sessions in the hope of reaching a trade and cooperation agreement. however, in view of our growing concerns, particularly in relation to nuclear energy, these discussions have been suspended for some time. i think that is what mr gahler is suggesting. as you know, the question of the development of iran's nuclear programme continues to be discussed at international level. at the same time, the union approved the negotiations currently being conducted in vienna by the united kingdom, france and germany on the idea of a nuclear package. the council of ministers is obviously in a better position than we are to report on this, if necessary, and also on the question raised by mr casaca concerning the mko, since the list in question is drawn up at the initiative of the member states by the council itself and the commission does not make a proposal in this field. in conclusion, mr president, i would say on behalf of the commission that the iranians are fully aware that all the issues we have just discussed, whether political, nuclear, trade or human rights, are inextricably linked and that, in general, we are in favour of constructive engagement, but that this does not in any way mean giving iran a kind of white-wash that would allow it to act irresponsibly in areas which your parliament, the commission and, i am sure, the council consider to be extremely worrying.
yes, mr casaca, you asked for the floor. the rules of procedure allow you to put a question or make a point, but very briefly.
thank you very much, mr. casaca. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, it is good that the european parliament is debating the question of the guantanamo prisoners and is adopting a resolution on such a bloody violation of human rights and international law. this is not our first resolution on the case and we have made little progress since the first one we adopted in february 2002. the first text began with macabre sarcasm, reiterating the european parliament's firm solidarity with the united states in the fight against terrorism, in full respect for the rights and freedoms of the individual. of course, then everything was to justify the us action by blaming what was happening in guantanamo on vague definitions and the need to update the geneva convention. two and a half years later, that resolution by parliament is a scandal. fortunately, two years later, we adopted the recommendation to the council from the andreasen report, which is much more dignified. the text proposed today is perhaps politically correct, but it seems to me to be excessively hygienic. we are still dealing with cotton, which is a radical denial of the rule of law and respect for the rules laid down for the maintenance of peace by the international community, and above all we are silent about the fact that what we were demanding seven months ago has received nothing but contempt and silence in response from the united states. my speech is therefore intended to denounce the crime of what is happening in guantánamo, as well as to denounce the hypocrisy and the double standard with which many levels of the european union and even parliament are acting, when demands are made and even dialogues are blocked with the country where guantánamo is located, and at the same time it is claimed that we form the same community of values with the united states. this nonsense is made evident by what is happening in guantanamo and, in any case, i ask that this community of values be discredited. of course, mine, the community of values for which i have fought in spain, under 40 years of dictatorship facilitated and sustained from washington, is something else. it is a different community of values, one in which many of us believe: the european constitution, without going any further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i sincerely hope that the american people will overthrow the far-right bush government on tuesday. it would be the quickest way to end the medieval treatment that prisoners of war are receiving at guantanamo. it is a government that has taken a leap backwards in civilization in favor of barbarism, with pre-emptive war. we are facing a collateral damage of preventive war, such as the humiliation of prisoners of war in guantanamo, where the geneva convention is not respected, the right to a fair and public trial, to legal assistance, and where torture is practiced. we already have testimony from people who were tortured. what do we europeans have to wait for? we have to be very careful about the way we treat the people who are in prison, and we must not allow the people who are in prison to be treated in a way that is contrary to the spirit of the treaty. that is not something that the old europe can tolerate. we must therefore speak out loudly, and i agree with my spanish colleague who has said that this resolution is important but that it is too soft. we must speak out more against this disgrace of guantanamo.
commission mr president, the fight against terrorism is undoubtedly one of the major challenges facing our society and the international community as a whole, but it is also clear that it raises a crucial question for us about how terrorism can conflict with the promotion and protection of human rights. the union's position on this point is simple and clear: it is the position that you have all just reiterated without exception in this debate. the fight against terrorism must be conditional on respect for human rights and not the other way around. as regards the situation of the approximately 550 people still detained at guantanamo bay, the commission, as such, has no competence to intervene on their behalf, but this does not prevent us from following the situation closely. the member states also expressed their concern to the united states, bilaterally, about the treatment of their nationals. the recent ruling by the us supreme court in the case of rasoul v bush was an important first step towards a return to the protection of fundamental human rights. the us supreme court has ruled that the lawfulness of the detention of foreign nationals captured abroad in the course of hostilities and incarcerated at guantanamo bay can be challenged in us federal courts. it is therefore regrettable that in the proceedings before the specially constituted courts for the examination of combatant status, following this decision, detainees cannot be defended by lawyers. the european union stressed that counter-terrorism measures must go hand in hand with an unconditional prohibition of all forms of torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the international covenant on civil and political rights does allow states to derogate from certain rights in the context of an emergency and under certain conditions; on the other hand, there are intangible rights which must be respected in all circumstances, such as the right not to be tortured or the right not to be arbitrarily detained. these obligations, which are also enshrined in the united nations convention against torture and the geneva conventions, must be respected in all circumstances. finally, as regards those accused of being members of the taliban or al qaeda, whether they are held in guantanamo or elsewhere, we believe that the international community should work to reaffirm its full adherence to the rules of international law, including human rights and humanitarian law. only by ensuring that these values are respected by all parties can real progress be made in the fight against terrorism.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 28 october 2004.
i would inform you that, in accordance with rule 127 (4), second subparagraph, of the rules of procedure, a plenary session will be held on tuesday 21 december in brussels to consider the report by the president-in-office of the european council, mr balkenende.
it is a good question to ask mr balkenende; it is a good question to ask the president-in-office of the council who is bringing us together. i think it is right that at the end of each presidency the president-in-office of the council should come to parliament and explain to us the balance sheets of his presidency. if we do not do it now, we will have to do it late in january, and this will already interfere with the dynamics of the next presidency. mr balkenende has been prepared to come on the 21st, and it is christmas time, and i do not think it would be polite for us to say that we have thought it over and wish he would not come. i hope the meeting on the 21st is interesting enough to justify the work and expense of convening it.
the first days of november bring back memories of events in our history which europeans should not forget because they are in some way linked to some of the events we are living through today. a week ago, on 9 november, we celebrated the 15th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and with it of the soviet empire, which led to the unification of the continent within the european union. today, therefore, we are celebrating this anniversary together for the first time in the parliament of all europeans. the fall of the berlin wall was the last geopolitical event to emerge from the first world war. on 11 november we also celebrated the armistice which brought an end to that tragedy, that great civil war between europeans. on 9 september we also celebrated the international day against fascism and anti-semitism, in memory of the night when the institutionalized persecution of a people on racial grounds began. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot relax in defending the human rights for which the european union has fought so hard. even if it doesn't seem like it, they're always in danger. our peace, the peace among europeans that we so much celebrate, has been threatened in recent days by new dangers that threaten our values and our coexistence. i think i can say on behalf of all of us that we are following with sadness and concern the events in the netherlands these days, the escalation of tension and the ethnic-religious confrontation. i think this is a good opportunity to send a message of solidarity to the government and to all dutch society, whatever their background and beliefs. we are also wholeheartedly with all those who through their personal responsibility are committing themselves to avoiding the futile spiral of violence. the european parliament is aware that extremism and xenophobia, wherever they come from, are in the end only a very small part of the population of this country and that they cannot in any case cast a shadow over dutch society, one of the most tolerant and inclusive in europe. yasser arafat, president of the palestinian legislative council, also died in november and i sent a letter of condolence to that council. our vice-president, mr mcmillan-scott, represented us at the funeral in cairo last friday. for 40 years, mr arafat was a symbol of his people's struggle for self-determination. today, his disappearance offers a new opportunity for the hopes of peace between the people of israel and palestine. i would like to take up the words of javier solana, who, speaking on behalf of the council, said that the union must be prepared to take part in a new phase of peace negotiations if they are relaunched. i am sure that all europeans want to take advantage of this event to promote the effective implementation of the roadmap. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda now opens for speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the backstage maneuvers of the spanish and british governments, which are giving a balloon of oxygen to the bloodthirsty communist regime of fidel castro in cuba. you reminded us, the berlin wall has fallen, but unfortunately, murderous fossils continue to threaten our ideals of democracy and freedom. that's the castro regime. i follow your advice, mr president, i do not relax in defending human rights, and i ask you not to allow members of this parliament to travel again, advertising the regime at the expense of our budget, and to support future trips by members to enlighten us and inform us about the situation of political and prisoners of conscience in cuba. the european union's policy towards cuba must not change. we must defend this in memory of the thousands who were tortured and killed, especially when we think of what happened last year with the summary execution of several innocent people. not one more political prisoner in cuba. we ask for the freedom of the cuban people to achieve a peaceful political transition and demonstrate their greatness. the cuban people don't need old-fashioned clowns or accomplices who laugh at their thanks.
mr president, i would like to denounce the fact that yesterday in a part of the european union, namely in the spanish city of san sebastián, batasuna, a political group which is outlawed because it is part of the eta network, held an act of apologizing and glorifying terrorism, and i regret that neither the basque autonomous government nor the central government took any measures to prevent the illegal act from taking place. today, both basque citizens and those of the rest of spain continue to feel astonishment, perplexity and above all indignation, seeing that no action was taken against the illegal immigrants with all the democratic firmness that a state of law must have. i therefore urge this parliament and the european institutions not to give up in the fight against terrorism and the accomplices of terrorists and i call on them to denounce and prosecute them in every corner of the european union.
council. mr president, it is a privilege to be here today to discuss with you an issue to which this parliament and the dutch presidency attach great importance: arms export policy and the european union code of conduct on arms exports. i shall begin with some comments on the report on the council's fifth annual report and on the motion for a resolution. please allow me to start with some general remarks about the code of conduct. the code of conduct on arms exports was adopted in 1998, and it is no exaggeration to state that it has become one of the more successful instruments of our common foreign and security policy. arms export policy has traditionally been veiled in secrecy. it was considered to be an essential element of undiminished national sovereignty in which interference by others was, to put it mildly, not welcome. however, since 1998 we have witnessed increasing transparency, increasing inter-state consultation and increasing harmonisation in the european union. that is impressive progress, and the success of the code of conduct is also illustrated by the interest taken in it by third countries. i am not only talking about countries aspiring to become member states of the european union, but others too. the code of conduct is a useful tool that can help them establish an efficient and responsible export control policy. the dutch presidency attaches great importance to further harmonisation of the european arms export policy and to making that policy even more transparent. one of the priorities of our presidency is the conclusion of the first review of the eu code of conduct. we hope to be able to finalise this review before the end of the year. i stress that i use the words 'first review' on purpose. it is important that we see the code as a living document which should regularly be held up to the light, and take into consideration internal and external developments and views. hence i am sure that this will not be the last review of the code. in its endeavours to enhance transparency, the dutch presidency has also stressed the importance of increased dialogue with the european parliament. on 1 september the committee on foreign affairs held a debate with the dutch chairman of the coarm working group on the eu code of conduct and the current review. the committee's rapporteur, mr romeva i rueda, participated in a conference on the review of the code on 30 september in the hague. we have also invited mr romeva i rueda to an informal meeting with the coarm working group on 3 december to discuss parliament's report. furthermore, we have invited mr romeva i rueda to participate in a meeting which the presidency is organising, together with the czech government, in prague, to inform the candidate countries and norway on the implementation of the code. we think it is important that the parliamentary role in european arms export policy is highlighted in that regard. at this point i would like to make some more specific remarks on the draft report and on the motion for a resolution. the european parliament report refers to the council's 2003 report. since then a lot has happened, most importantly the review of the code of conduct. some of the points addressed in the report are being discussed in the framework of this review. in this respect i should mention the following points. the european parliament report welcomes the common position on arms brokering. in the present review there is already consensus to extend the application of the code to brokering activities. the same is true for licensed production overseas, and transport and trans-shipment. licence applications for these activities will become subject to the criteria and practices set out in the code of conduct. furthermore, the code should also be applicable in cases of so-called intangible transfers of technology. outside the context of the review of the code of conduct, we have made progress in areas such as outreach. i have already mentioned the seminar in prague in december. in september, member states agreed on a more coherent approach concerning outreach. the council secretariat will keep a database on the outreach activities of the individual member states so as to achieve better coordination. progress has also been made in the further development of the denial notification and consultation system – one of the core elements of the code. consultations on denials are now taking place in such a way that all member states are informed about the consultation. only the final decision of a member state as to whether or not it will undercut the denial is not automatically shared with all the partners. furthermore, an electronic database is being developed by the council secretariat, which will contain the denials notified by member states, as well as information on the consultations they have undertaken. this database will contribute greatly to the efficiency of bilateral consultations and the transparency of their outcomes. much time has been devoted to the status of the code. parliament expresses a clear preference in its report for making the code legally binding. you may be aware that there is no consensus on this issue in the council: about half of the member states are in favour of making the code legally binding, but the other half opposes it. however, there is something more important than the question of whether the code is politically or legally binding. that is the actual content of the code and the way it is implemented, because changing the status in itself would probably have little or no effect on the arms export policy of individual member states. the romeva i rueda report stresses the importance of increased transparency. i agree and am therefore pleased that the council's 2004 annual report will be more transparent than previous ones. we hope that further steps can be taken, probably as soon as next year. the transparency of the national reports is also of importance. the dutch presidency, together with sipri, recently organised a meeting with member states on how to improve national reporting. i am sure that subsequent presidencies will follow-up this initiative. the resolution also advocates a monitoring system to control end-use. this is an area where more work could be done. a recent us government study shows that, in the case of the us, between 15 and 20% of authorised exports to so-called 'vulnerable' destinations do not end in the hands of the indicated end-user. we have no figures for the eu, but there is no reason to think they would be dramatically different. we will therefore, as a first step, organise a meeting on post-shipment controls where we will be briefed by the us authorities on their experiences with post-shipment control programmes. this brings me to probably the most politically sensitive issue. i know that the eu arms embargo vis-à-vis china attracts the special attention of this parliament and of many national parliaments. i take note of the appeal in the resolution not to lift the arms embargo. the issue of the future of the arms embargo is still under discussion in the council. it is therefore not possible to discuss this issue in detail. however, let me say that the dutch presidency is well aware of the various concerns expressed by parliaments, the public, ngos and also by important partners like the us and japan. one such concern is the human rights situation in china. the eu takes every opportunity to discuss human rights issues with china, and monitors carefully the developments on the ground. all these concerns are taken into account in the discussion. we are also discussing measures supplementary to the code of conduct that should prevent an increase in the flow of arms and military technology from europe to china should the embargo be lifted. the aim of these measures is to increase transparency and intensify consultation among member states. it is not yet clear when this discussion will be concluded. in conclusion, the dutch presidency is pleased to see that the european parliament pays so much attention to the important issue of arms export policy. as i said earlier, increased dialogue on this issue between the council and parliament is one of the objectives of our presidency. progress has been made or is under way on many of the points mentioned in the report and the resolution. there are areas where further progress is possible. the transparency of the national reports is one; harmonisation of the interpretation of the criteria is another. however, we can say that the glass is already more than half full. please be assured that the netherlands will do its utmost in the remaining six weeks of its presidency to fill the glass even fuller.
commission. first of all, i apologise for appearing in front of the house for yet another farewell appearance. i am starting to know what frank sinatra must have felt like, as he staggered on making farewell appearances until he was into his seventies. i hope this really is the last afternoon that the house will have to endure me, but that is in parliament's hands. as members know, given the way in which the common foreign and security policy operates, this is not an issue on which the commission takes a lead. nevertheless, we have an obvious interest in the overall development of our relations with china, which by and large are excellent, and the arms embargo naturally operates in that context. as parliament knows, the embargo was imposed by the european council in 1989, following the events in tiananmen square, the early stages of which i was able to witness at first hand as the then vice-chairman of the asia development bank. this year, china has intensified its campaign to have the ban lifted. that campaign continues in the run-up to the summit between the european union and china next month. the chinese authorities consider the embargo to be evidence of discrimination against them; they argue that the ban is obsolete. they claim that it severely hinders the further development of bilateral relations. whilst we have acknowledged that positive change has occurred and that the political situation in china has moved on since tiananmen, china's observance of some basic human rights, notably in the area of political and civil rights, continues to fall well short of international norms. without making any direct link we have, therefore, consistently told the chinese authorities at the highest level that the lifting of the embargo would be greatly assisted if they could take the sort of concrete steps in the field of human rights that would convince the european public that that was an appropriate course of action. i know that a number of member states are favourably disposed towards lifting the embargo and have made that view public. others believe that it is premature, citing concerns about human rights. human rights were an issue that figured prominently in the resolution passed by this house last year against lifting the ban. those member states arguing for lifting the ban use the rationale that the controls introduced in the 1998 eu code of conduct on arms sales render it nugatory. i acknowledge that this argument is not without substance. i am very keen to move forward with our important strategic partnership with china, a country that is rapidly emerging as a global player across the board, and is now, amongst other things, our second largest trading partner. that is one of our top foreign policy goals in the years to come. that said, given the underlying logic of the embargo and the significant political and symbolic issues involved for both sides, it is understandable that some member states argue that the lifting of the ban should take place against a background of positive and tangible steps by china to improve its human rights situation. i should also like to say a few words on the european parliament’s report on the operation of the eu’s code of conduct on arms exports. the strength of the code of conduct is closely related to the china embargo debate, since it will guide member states' export practice if the ban is lifted. responsibility for the arms trade currently rests with member states, but the commission is fully associated with its consideration under the common foreign and security policy. i commend the rapporteur for putting together a substantial document which merits very careful attention. it challenges member states to attain more stringent standards on the control of arms exports. amongst other things, it asks for more transparency, not something that is normally immediately associated with the arms trade. it also seeks further controls and limitations on such trade, inherently difficult areas for those member states with significant arms industries. whilst the report focuses primarily on improvement in european practice, its scope is global. recognising the european union’s potential to promote best practice around the world, it advocates, among other things, an international arms trade treaty. we should not forget - and i am sure parliament has not - the sobering fact that around half a million people die each year as a result of violence linked to small arms and light weapons. as you are well aware, the commission is regularly involved, with other international organisations and ngos, in dealing with the consequences of inappropriate or illegal arms sales. we are also implementing some specific projects to reduce destabilising accumulations of weapons around the world. a pilot project initiated by the european parliament is under way to see what else can be done. more certainly needs to be done. i particularly support the idea of an international agreement to strengthen the control of conventional arms sales. that is why the commission has, as part of wider eu efforts, strongly supported the adoption of an international code of conduct on arms exports based on the european union’s initiative. member states are currently considering how to improve the code of conduct and we are encouraging these efforts to strengthen eu controls on conventional arms sales. the success of this endeavour will be a factor in the ongoing china arms embargo debate. we all know the importance of china as an economic partner and a political player in the world in the coming decades. china is, to a considerable extent, regaining the position that it had in the world until the middle of the 19th century, when it was still responsible for probably 30% of global gdp. the historic recovery we are witnessing is, on the whole, extraordinarily beneficial to the rest of the world. china's integration as an open economy into the world economy is good for all of us. it is not in any way demeaning to us or the chinese if we regularly make it clear that there are other issues that concern us, such as issues of human rights. i am sure we shall in due course see an improvement as the political situation in china matches the economic one. it is impossible these days for any country to remain completely self-contained. it is impossible for a country to open up its economy whilst keeping politics under absolutely rigid control. i look forward to a more intimate relationship with china in the years ahead. i hope china will continue to play a positive role in the international community. i look forward to a serious dialogue with china about human rights, leading to improvements of which i am sure mr sun yat-sen would have approved.
i would like to thank mr nicolaï and mr patten again, not only for their presence here but also for the clarity and frankness with which they have spoken, and with which i hope we can also engage in dialogue later on. in this parliament we frequently denounce violations of human rights in various parts of the world, and we often adopt resolutions condemning these acts. we have condemned murder, torture, ill-treatment and war, and we have condemned the extreme poverty in the world which is suffering thousands of peoples and millions of people. and in the meantime our governments continue to authorize arms exports, which not only serve to make the conditions of these people even worse, but also lead to buyers devoting huge sums of money to military purposes, when the social and development priorities of their countries demand that precisely other purposes be given priority. in 2000, 189 countries signed the millennium declaration in new york, committing themselves to ending poverty, ensuring universal access to essential medicines, and equal opportunities for men and women, as well as universal literacy and primary schooling, among many other issues, between 2015 and 2050. to achieve these aims, governments need to allocate at least usd 60 billion per year to implementing the millennium agenda. however, although it is extremely difficult to find money for these purposes, world military spending grew by $64 billion between 2002 and 2003, and another $50 billion was needed between 2003 and 2004. the european union countries, as responsible for one third of the world's conventional arms exports, have a major responsibility in this respect. in 2002, the year to which the report we are discussing refers, the european union sold weapons and military equipment worth 21 billion euros to countries such as saudi arabia, morocco, india, pakistan, angola, turkey, iran, algeria, colombia, israel and even iraq, among many other destinations which, strictly reading the european union's code of conduct, should not be among the european arms buyers. what's the problem? the problem is that the code is still too vague and that it is not yet a legally binding instrument, so that infringement of it does not entail criminal liability. the european parliament has always been the most forward-looking european institution in demanding that european arms exports be governed by a strict code of conduct and, at the same time, that these exports be consistent with the constant messages we send from the european union in favour of preventing armed conflict and promoting peace and development. that is why, after ten years of professional involvement in this subject, i must congratulate the dutch presidency in particular for the efforts it is making, not only to revise the code of conduct, but also to make it a much bolder, more coherent and, in short, more effective text. but this is not enough yet, and that is why we must remind - as we do in the report - that we must reiterate the need to revise the text of the code, to make it more stringent, to demand that it become a legally binding instrument - although we do not yet have the consensus, we must work to achieve it - to demand that governments increase transparency and improve the information they provide on authorizations and refusals of permits, to demand that the code also apply to the export of material that can be used for torture or for the application of the death penalty, to demand that the european union provide itself with instruments to improve the records of arms brokers, whether they work from the european union or are strictly registered in the european union, that they are brought into line with export control legislation. finally, among many other things, the report calls for the european union to promote the adoption of an international arms treaty at international level. finally, since this debate is taking place at a time when some european governments are considering the need to lift the arms embargo on china, it is appropriate to take this opportunity to reiterate once again the inconvenience of lifting the embargo. the reasons for this are at least three: the clearly unsatisfactory human rights situation in that country, which has been denounced many times by various ngos; the fact that, as china is the world's leading importer of conventional arms, further expansion of the military market will certainly lead to an acceleration of the arms race in the region; and, finally, the many risks of an aggravation of certain unresolved conflicts such as those facing china with taiwan or the situation of pressure - still unclear - on tibet. i therefore call on the council not only to listen to, but also to take into account and respect the proposals and recommendations made by this house, with the aim of eliminating at once the flagrant contradiction that it is to lament poverty, wars and violations of human rights in the world on the one hand, while on the other hand we contribute to fuelling the fire of multiple violence with our weapons and our silences, incomprehensible to millions of victims. (applause) i would like to thank
council. i would like to thank all the members of parliament for their remarks on this very important matter. let me start with the sensitive issue of china. strong opinions have been expressed about human rights and other concerns, such as regional conflicts. it was stressed that the council should not lift the arms embargo on china, with almost all the members of parliament present expressing the same sentiments. mr van hecke mentioned the dutch position. however, everyone knows that i am here not as a representative of the dutch government, but of the council presidency. nevertheless, the dutch government is facing a very critical dutch parliament, which is almost unanimously of the same opinion as this parliament. that is also the case in other countries. i listened very closely to your remarks and share many of your concerns on this matter. these are currently also being voiced in the council, and i must make it clear that even if this embargo is lifted, a restrictive eu export policy will be applied. it is important to be aware of that. with regard to the code of conduct on arms exports, many members of parliament mentioned the issue of the code's status and stressed the importance of it being legally binding. mr van orden, on the other hand, mentioned the issue of judicial consequences and the possible increase of the role of judges, which is also under discussion in the council. i understand the arguments but you must be aware that positions are divided in the council. the content of the code and how we implement it is of greater importance than its status, which would probably have no effect on the arms export policy of the individual member states. i agree with mr czarnecki, who stressed the importance of aspiring member states applying the code of conduct. that is one of the reasons that the presidency organised a seminar to help these countries in that respect. mr agnoletto stressed the importance of urging other countries - the russian federation and the us - to apply this code. we are in regular contact with these countries, aiming to maximise cooperation in this field, thus making export policy more efficient. mr von wogau raised the issue of differences in the interpretation of the criteria, which is indeed an important point. i agree and have already told parliament that harmonisation of the application of the criteria is an important objective. in another question, mr henin asked about post-shipment controls. as i stated in my initial remarks, post-shipment controls are essential to ensuring that arms go where they are meant to go and do not fall into the wrong hands. unlike the us, the eu member states do not apply such controls, at least not on a regular and systematic basis. this issue has been identified as a priority in the sixth eu arms export report. as a first step member states will in the near future organise a meeting with us experts in order to be briefed on the us programme. on the basis of this briefing, member states will have to decide how best to move forward this important issue both nationally and jointly. there were also questions from mr romeva i rueda and mrs gomes about the trade regulation on torture equipment. this draft regulation is at present being discussed in council. mrs gomes also asked about taxation of the arms trade. we are aware of the various suggestions made in that regard, including those by member states of the european union. however no concrete detailed proposals are currently being discussed within the european union. i would like to conclude by commenting on what mr romeva i rueda said in his introduction. on the one hand he paid compliments to the presidency for the review of the code of conduct, but on the other hand he said it was not enough. in a way i agree that we should go further, and that this should not be the final step. it is indeed a first review and we should continue our efforts. i very much appreciate parliament's strong commitment to this issue and the active role that parliament has played. (applause)
, in writing. we must defend the values of freedom and democracy through the legitimate use of the word and the responsible enactment of legal norms. the large market provided by the people's republic of china should not make us forget that its political regime is still the heir of a system of values that is markedly communist and far removed from acceptable standards. taiwan is still a people suffering from political oppression and economic isolation imposed by the people's republic of china, which has recently reverted to the threat of armed struggle against taiwan. the conditions for lifting the arms embargo are not met. if this situation can only limit the arms race of the people's republic of china, then what is the point of lifting the embargo! furthermore, it would be seen as an endorsement of the current status of confrontation, rather than insisting on the people's republic's necessary political dialogue with taiwan. let us provoke political action, not military action.
mr president, i want to talk about climate change, but above all about the report by the european environment agency, which published a diagnosis of the future two months ago and states that the areas most at risk, those most likely to suffer from climate change, are those in the mediterranean. i think it is very serious that this has not been said out loud until now. i think it is essential to stress that it is the mediterranean areas which will suffer most from the increase in temperature, with the very important health risks that this entails; those which will suffer most from water scarcity, from lack of rainfall; from increased desertification, from desertification; from reduced productivity. these areas are also receiving an immigration of suffering, misery and hunger. we have a duty to help them. i would therefore ask that europe clearly align itself on strategies to combat desertification and on a policy of adaptation to climate change, as the agency recommends. we must have adaptable policies, as sustainable development indicates. we need integrated strategies, studies and much more in-depth research on the problems ahead. the united nations, which has launched a process to combat the desertification of europe, is almost silent. i therefore call for a mediterranean policy, a policy of social balance and a more active policy for the future.
mr president, commissioner, although i congratulate you on your new responsibility, i am very glad that you are here tonight in the debate on climate change. the european union's strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change is really of great interest. the european union must maintain its leadership and also use it to negotiate, so that the number of countries signing the kyoto protocol in the future will increase. i think it is very necessary to work towards including in the second commitment period the discussions initiated in milan, in order to incorporate emissions from air and sea transport, and even to make progress on some global commitment to reduce emissions from the traffic of people and goods by land, which is at the moment a major problem with regard to air pollution. in addition, the commission should consider developing more measures on energy efficiency and also on more renewable energy sources because, as you said, mrs wallström, on 26 august, if all public authorities in the european union switched to green energy, 62 million tonnes of co2 would be eliminated, which would allow us to meet 18% of the kyoto commitments on emission reductions. furthermore, i believe that the market needs clear and sustained signals for the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency. for all these reasons, i think it would be good if the commission were to put forward a proposal to increase energy efficiency measures and promote alternative energy sources in the second term, and proposing is another way of maintaining leadership in the european union.
council. mr president, i shall be very brief. i thank members of parliament for their contributions and i agree with most of the remarks that were made. it is important to be aware that parliament, the commission and council share almost the same views on this important issue. we indeed have to fight against scepticism, we have to look beyond 2012 and perhaps we do not agree with everybody in the world. but at least we agree on the main paths of the whole discussion here in parliament with the commission and the council. it is very important that we continue the steps we have already taken.
commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking members for their kind words and their cooperation over the years. i hope to continue to follow this discussion, because this concerns not only the environment but also our survival on this planet and the economic and social consequences that affect us now. thus, in the years to come, i hope to support and be involved in the initiatives to tackle climate change taken by the barroso commission. i recall that we very rarely get reports from the pacific ocean – the vast expanse of water that covers one third of this planet – but where the effects of climate change are already affecting people living in small island states. it must be said that during all the debates on climate change over the past five years the speeches by representatives from the small island states have been the most impressive, because they can tell us their personal stories of how this affected their lives and the possibilities to continue to live on these small islands. a lot of people would say that the kyoto protocol did not work, that it was flawed, and they would mention its negative aspects. it is not perfect, but what is the alternative to that one international legal framework, which has now been negotiated for ten years? should we try to become involved in bilateral contacts between one state and another? to solve a global problem we need a truly global solution and framework. i have tried to turn it around and say that it is an ingenious protocol, because it combines sound science and the way the united nations has put together the intergovernmental panel for climate change is unprecedented. of course individual scientists will question the whole thing – that is their job! however, the fact remains that we have an in-depth knowledge of the problem. with sound science, we have common but differentiated responsibilities, meaning that the rich countries – those who emit eight or eighty times as much pollution the poor countries do – have a certain responsibility. but we involve them all. india and china sit at the same table as the rich countries, so we are able to talk to them and discuss what will happen after 2012. it also means that we have access to the so-called flexible mechanisms, meaning that we will do things in a cost-effective way. we will involve and mobilise different actors and use market forces for the good of the environment. that is why it is ingenious. we will have to revise it and work and change it for many years to come, but it is the one game there is in town in combating climate change. that is why i am also proud of the role the european union has played over the years and i hope will continue to play. it is so important. for once we can show the rest of the world that sustainable development is possible; that we can find cost-effective means and measures and that we are willing to cooperate with each other. thanks to the european parliament we have a very ambitious climate-change policy. i hope that will continue with your help. i wish your delegation and our eu delegation to cop 10 in buenos aires all the best.
commission. mr president, in 2001 a total of 65 million tonnes of packaging waste was generated in the 15 old member states of the european union. that corresponds to around 17% of municipal solid waste and 3% of the total waste generation by weight. of these 65 million tonnes, 34 million tonnes – 53% – were recycled, and 60% was recovered or incinerated with energy recovery. our information gives good reason to assume that in 2002 not a single target out of the 75 different targets applying to member states was missed. this is a success many would not have believed in even a few years ago. therefore the community has built on this success and adopted new and higher targets earlier this year. the new member states started later in setting up their own recycling schemes. they have nevertheless made significant progress towards fulfilling their target under the old packaging directive at the end of the transition periods agreed in the accession treaty. for procedural reasons, a deadline for the targets of the revised packaging directive could not be set within that directive and this proposal was therefore necessary. the commission believes that setting this deadline for the new member states is a matter in which parliament needs to be fully involved. we therefore consider that the appropriate legal procedure is codecision on the basis of article 95. we can also understand, however, that the new member states want to have legal security as soon as possible. they should be able to transpose the targets of the revision directive and the deadline under the present proposal at the same time. the deadline therefore needs to be agreed before the transposition deadline for targets expires in august 2005 and i hope that the efforts made to reach an agreement at first reading will be successful. the commission has proposed a deadline of 2012 for all new member states. this should allow discussion in parliament and council to start from an equal basis. however, i can also accept limited postponement for some of the countries concerned. i am also aware that many members of parliament wish to extend possibilities for member states to encourage re-use systems. this is an important subject and the commission agreed to study options during the last revision of the packaging directive. however, getting the right balance between encouraging re-use and preserving the internal market is also not easy. i think, therefore, that we should wait for the outcome of the two ongoing studies and discuss this issue on the basis of a report that the commission will present to parliament and the council in 2005. however, if parliament wishes to point out the importance of re-use in a recital, as suggested in amendment 4, that is acceptable to the commission. the commission can accept amendments 1, 2 and 3 in full, and amendment 4 in principle.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this proposal that the commission has put before us is simply to set deadlines for the new member states to comply with the objectives of the directive that we adopted last year. during the amendment of the packaging directive, for which mrs corbey was also rapporteur, the question arose of what to do with the new member states which were not included in the objectives of the directive. the new member states have already negotiated with the commission transitional periods of varying lengths, depending on the conditions in which they were able to meet these objectives, because, in reality, for many countries these objectives are very ambitious and not easy to meet. these deadlines were set out in recital 6 of the amendment to the directive which was made last year. i agree with the report as adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and in your amendment no 3 the rapporteur has replaced the date proposed by the commission, one date for all, which, as you know, is the year 2012, which the member states had already negotiated. they do not coincide, but each member state has its own peculiarities, its own problems and knows perfectly well when it can or cannot meet these objectives. it is no use to us to make legislation that is impossible to comply with. this proposal was to include the member states in the objectives of the packaging directive. i am therefore against the new amendment no 4 which seeks to introduce a new recital on the reuse system, which gives the impression that one thing is being used to put something else in. it's not the time. i am not against reuse systems, nor can anyone be against them. but this is not the place to put this amendment. it is neither the time nor the place, and even more so when article 5 of this directive already allows member states to promote reuse methods provided they are in accordance with the treaties. i think it is premature to start this debate when in june 2005 the commission is due to present to parliament and the council a report on the implementation of the directive, its impact on the environment and the functioning of the external market. this report shall address, inter alia, the promotion of reuse and, in particular, the comparison of the costs and benefits of reuse and recycling. so far, no environmental or economic reasons have been found for favouring one type of packaging over another. the most important thing i wanted to say is that i am against amendment no 4.
commission. mr president, honourable members, i am sure you will appreciate it if i refrain from speaking northern swedish - if there is such a thing. firstly, mrs jackson, as you know, our proposal suggests a deadline of 31 december 2012 for all the new member states. the amendment confirms the deadline for seven new member states, but allows a deadline of 2013 for malta, 2014 for poland and 2015 for latvia. in reply to your question, this reflects the wishes the new member states expressed to the commission in the consultation round in spring 2003. a recital in the revised directive states that the deadline to be agreed should not be later than those dates. it is also my understanding that no agreement was reached in conciliation on a particular date. the recital indicated specifically that the decision should be taken on the basis of requests from the acceding states for derogations, which would not in principle extend beyond the dates mentioned. so there is nothing to suggest that the date could not be earlier. the commission considers that this matter should be debated openly, treating all countries equally. we have no problem in accepting differentiated dates, if that is what parliament and the council want. on the costs, we do not anticipate any significant change. there will be no dramatic change in costs if the dates are changed. thank you for this important debate and your valuable cooperation on environmental issues. i hope we will meet again soon.
commission. mr president, the european union's relations with cuba are governed by the common position originally adopted by the council in 1996, which has been updated and renewed regularly. the common position advocates a policy of constructive engagement with cuba through enhanced dialogue with government and civil society with the objective of encouraging 'a process of transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living standards of the cuban people'. this constructive engagement has remained our position. following the large-scale imprisonment of dissidents in 2003, the union took a series of political measures. in june 2003 the eu decided to limit bilateral high-level visits to reduce the profile of member states' participation in cultural events, to invite cuban members of the peaceful opposition to their national day celebrations alongside government representatives and to re-evaluate the common position ahead of time. the most recent re-evaluation of the common position in june this year re-affirmed the policy of constructive engagement as the basis of eu policy towards cuba. the eu has repeatedly underscored the importance of political dialogue with the cuban authorities and has indicated its willingness to restart such a dialogue when conditions permit. the european commission deplores the cuban government's decision to freeze relations with all embassies of eu member states that have invited dissidents to their national days and with the commission delegation in havana, as well as the refusal of direct aid from the european union. despite cuban decisions which impede our development cooperation activities, the commission has continued funding actions by ngos and humanitarian actions managed by echo. in october 2004 the commission took a decision to provide eur 1 million in humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable victims of hurricanes ivan and charlie in cuba. we should not really talk about humanitarian assistance in this context because we would deliver humanitarian assistance in any case, without any political considerations. the decision by the cuban government to release certain dissidents on health grounds is a positive gesture to an improved situation, but not sufficient to warrant full revocation of the measures decided by the council in june last year. the aim continues to be the release of all political prisoners in cuba. the june measures are currently being reviewed by the council. the european council wishes to stress that the result of this review has to be consistent with the overall aims of the common position and the human rights policy of the eu. in the commission's view, this could provide a basis for a constructive and future-oriented eu policy towards cuba, which would be conducive to attaining the objectives of the common position. some people have asked whether the delegation in havana can really function meaningfully in the present circumstances. i want to make it clear that the delegation in havana is essential to carry out the tasks that parliament has asked the commission to undertake. our presence in cuba is more important today than ever. the main tasks of the delegation are not only to assist with the implementation of eight programmes and projects, but also to promote a political dialogue with the cuban authorities and civil society, to monitor human rights issues and to protect the trade and investment interests of member states. this is a heavy, important, and sometimes difficult agenda to pursue, but it is essential if we wish to promote political and economic improvements in cuba. all in all, i would say that 2003 was a sad year in our relations with cuba. in my view, it was a lost opportunity for cuba and the eu that membership of the cotonou agreement did not succeed. i hope that what happened in 2003 will not turn out to be irreversible. i still find cuban membership of the cotonou agreement a very meaningful framework for our relations. it represents the basic structure of how we would like to organise and govern north-south relations. cuban participation in cotonou also means that cuba would be subject to peer pressure within the cotonou agreement. i hope that it is still possible to keep an open mind, but that also means an open mind inside cuba.
on behalf of the group. mr president, few members of this parliament have done as much to preserve the capacity for dialogue with the authorities of the regime and with the cuban people as i have done in my time as chairman of the committee responsible for relations with that country. but the dialogue that we defend, believe in and practice, mr president, has not been fuelled by any government of the european union, not by osvaldo payá, not by elisardo sánchez, not by marta beatriz roque, but by the policy of shootings, the arrest of independent journalists - like raúl rivero, who is currently rotting in cuban prisons, like others - and the policy of arresting peaceful dissidents and human rights activists. our parliament cannot remain deaf, dumb and blind to these facts. the council's common position, which some are unsuccessfully trying to change - here are the results of today's vote, which have been a resounding failure for these amendment theses - by requesting a new report from the ambassadors in havana, has served, as mario vargas llosa says in an article recently published in the newspaper el país, to send a clear message to the millions of cubans who cannot protest, vote or escape, that they are not alone, that they have not been abandoned and that the western democracies are with them. what do some of the political groups in this parliament propose in their resolution, which does not even mention the request for the release of political prisoners: to cooperate and dialogue with the executioners and to ridicule the victims? to be complacent with those who oppress them? mr president, andrei sakharov, who left us a legacy of moral integrity and a rather remarkable mandate for peaceful coexistence among peoples, said that often the voices that count are those that are not heard. mr president, the forced absence from the sakharov prize ceremony last year of one of its most honoured laureates, osvaldo payá, is the most eloquent argument that this parliament must lend its voice to those in cuba and abroad who are fighting for their freedom and dignity, and that this parliament, mr president, must be, as it has been so far, very firm in the inescapable demand for freedom.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the european union, in its relations with cuba, as with any other country in the world and, in particular, in the developing world, must pursue two objectives: one, to contribute to the betterment of the cuban people in all respects, including with regard to human rights and freedoms, in which we see serious shortcomings, and the other, to defend the various european interests that exist in cuba. there have been two features in the policy pursued by the european union with cuba in recent years which have made that country a special case, an exception, all within an unjustifiable dynamic and which was never justified by the inspirers of that policy. the european union's dialogue and cooperation with all the countries of the world thus includes a chapter on the human rights situation. it is a chapter of the utmost importance, but there are others. only with cuba does the human rights chapter become exclusive, obscuring any other that should exist in relations with that country. the european union's dialogue and cooperation with all the countries of the world also aims to overcome shortcomings in the field of human rights. only in the case of cuba do these human rights deficiencies become a prior issue that prevents dialogue and cooperation. it is now necessary to make an objective assessment of this policy, which has failed miserably in terms of its results. it is objectively contrary to the policy that not the slightest progress has been made in cuba with regard to freedom and human rights. and, in another order of things, this policy has been disastrous for european interests in cuba and is denounced by businessmen, non-governmental organizations, artists, religious people, etc. it has even been disastrous for the normal functioning of our diplomatic representatives in that country. but this policy has also revealed a complete dissociation of our european societies from their respective national governments and from the european union itself, whose guidelines they have not paid the slightest attention to. in this way, various initiatives that were ignored or even boycotted by official bodies have attracted a large participation of artists, authors, entrepreneurs or citizens of our countries. i am referring, for example, to the art biennial, the book fair, the ballet festival or the havana exhibition fair. the vice-president of the conservative party of the united kingdom, michael ancram, was in cuba these days following a programme of contacts at the highest level. he was no doubt a distinguished colleague here, who on monday spoke of visitors to the island, no doubt a fellow believer, he was referring to at that time with particular acuteness. finally, in our opinion, this policy has cost europe credibility in cuba and in latin america as a whole, by making us appear to be accompanying the north american strategies in the region. the conclusion we draw from these assessments is that the policy pursued to date by the european union with regard to cuba, which is based on the common position and the measures, must be reviewed, rationalised and updated. we are in line with what several member state governments are putting before the european council itself. we also insist forcefully that the change of policy which we advocate should not only not involve any renunciation of our objectives - set out at the beginning of my speech - but should also confirm them and aim to contribute to their achievement more effectively than has been the case so far. we are convinced that the progress we are seeking for the cuban people and for european interests in cuba will be achieved more easily through broad, rigorous, critical dialogue and cooperation in all that seems justified, but without any prior hostility or prejudice. in doing so, we will also be acting in relation to that country in the same way as we do with china, vietnam, iran, israel, syria, libya, equatorial guinea, sudan or even the united states and a few dozen other countries in which we detect very serious deficiencies, in many cases much more serious than in cuba, in the matter of freedoms, human rights and the functioning of the rule of law, but with which we are in dialogue and cooperation precisely to improve things that we do not like. mr president, that is what we are seeking with the resolution tabled by our group and which has been joined by others in the house.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the greens/efa group does not minimize its defence of freedom of human rights. for us, the defence of all the rights of the cuban people is a key issue. we have always called for the release of all prisoners and we have also called for a clear transition to democracy. what is at issue here is what is the best method to push cuba towards democracy; after forty years of embargo, and now with the sanctions of the european union, we see that this method is not effective and that the best way to help cuban society is not to isolate it, but to weave ever closer and stronger relationships with cuban civil society, to help ngos in society. what is at stake here is the opening up of cuban society. the aid to a society which wants to move towards democracy cannot be obtained through confrontation which, with the people's party resolution, seeks only a break with unforeseeable consequences, when what we want, as for any part of the world, is an agreed transition, without violence and which can lead to the democracy which we all, and above all the greens/efa group, seek. that is why we support this resolution, which is in favour of cuban society and democracy.
mr president, two things are certain: cuba has no political freedom, just as spain did not have it when, under the franco regime, with its prisons full of political prisoners, it signed a spectacular trade agreement with the european union. that's a fact. another fact is that the european union has maintained a common position since 1996 which has produced absolutely no positive results and has contributed nothing to improve the situation on the island. the speeches that those who are not, for example, with the european people's party or with the exile in miami are with castro, are exactly the same kind of speeches that we have heard from the white house saying that those who put nuances and perks to the position on iraq were automatically allies of saddam hussein. these are poor speeches, devoid of content and completely alien to european political reality, to the way in which europe has approached our relations with any other place in the world except cuba, where we reject black and white, a dialogue between san miguel and satan, and we stick to concrete reality, to political practice, to changes as they occur. we've done it with libya, with iran, with korea. we have done it with every other country and we want to continue doing it with cuba. our position on cuba cannot be a visceral position born of the stomach and the rejection that produces in the stomach the cuban political reality and the person of fidel castro. the european union's policy on cuba must be based on reason, as it is in so many other places, and must take account of the reality of the needs of the cuban people. the resolution which is to be voted on tomorrow, if it is voted on in its original form, prohibits the council from changing or even reflecting on the position towards cuba until cuba's prisons have been emptied. we would like to see the prisons in cuba emptied of political prisoners and we would like to see political freedom in azerbaijan and ukraine and belarus and sudan, and in china as well. but we know that this is far from the pragmatism and political reality with which we know how to act in europe and which has produced many results in many parts of the world. we would also like to see the fanaticism of some people transformed into pragmatic reasoning, which could really lead to a peaceful transition in cuba, which some people are doing everything they can to prevent.
mr president, to the facts already denounced by me yesterday in this very house, namely the dark corridor manoeuvres of the spanish government to reduce the sanctions imposed by the european union on the castro regime, there is added today the manipulation of information on the outcome of the meeting of the committee of the council of the european union on latin america, which has not reduced at any time the sanctions imposed on the regime in 2003. these sanctions - i remind a distracted colleague - were not implemented by the 'hordes' of the european people's party, but during the presidency of the greek socialist government of the union. what has the castro regime done in the past year to benefit from such an unexpected and generous oxygen balloon? the answer is simple: nothing. or rather, imprison and torture more opponents and further isolate the cuban people, distancing them from our dream of a free and democratic cuba. i am not going to give up that dream and i know that many members of other groups in this parliament, including the socialist group, will not give up either. this parliament has always been a model and a vanguard in the defence of human rights and in these critical days it must show that it will not join the fate of a corrupt dictator in open decline or be carried away by the collaborationism of some of the members who have always been instrumentalised by the dictatorship. today, the democratic model of coexistence on the island and the hope for a peaceful political transition must triumph, giving cuba and its people the prominence they have always deserved in the international sphere. to achieve this, the immediate release of all political and prisoners of conscience in castro's prisons, the immediate cessation of torture and executions of dissidents, free dialogue between all parties and the recognition by the regime that it is itself that is isolated, not the brave people of the cuban people who are crying out for their freedom. i beg all my fellow members to dream with me to this end and i hope we all wake up soon in a free cuba and master of its destiny.
mr president, i have always been surprised that cuba is being used as a weapon to throw people at each other, depending on the ideological colour of each individual, and only for the internal consumption of the respective public opinions of european countries, especially in my country, spain. could we not take advantage of this opportunity - i see that we cannot - to think together only about the cuban people, their present and their future, leaving aside the excessive ideologization and partisan use of the subject? what do the cuban people aspire to? i think we can all agree that it is striving to overcome the tremendous shortcomings it suffers in the economic field as well as in the field of civil, social and political freedoms. i believe that he hopes for a better future, that sooner or later an orderly and peaceful democratic transition can begin, which will mean the reconciliation of all cubans, those living in cuba and those living in exile. i think he wants us europeans not to fight - as we are doing here tonight - but to come together and help them as best we can, because they must be the protagonists of the future and not we. mr president, our differences today concern the common position adopted by the european union in 1996. some governments and some members of parliament are proposing to reform it here; others are proposing that not a single comma be moved, but neither position is illegitimate, and each one is arguable, and does not imply that some are lackeys of the united states or others are accomplices of fidel castro. let us leave aside that kind of argument, as i heard in the previous intervention. i believe that after eight years, the common position deserves to be reflected on and possibly reformed, but with consensus, with a very broad agreement practically unanimous in the council, which would allow us to explore new positions on cuba that are more effective, but which would not serve at all as an oxygen tank for the cuban dictatorship and would not serve, much less, to disqualify dissidents or the opposition or political prisoners, many of whom are suffering deplorable conditions in prison. if the vast majority of this house is convinced that there is a totalitarian dictatorship in cuba and an oppressed people who deserve our help, and if we agree on the need for an end to the harmful american embargo and believe that intergovernmental dialogue is a valid instrument, why is it going to be so difficult for us to agree on a policy on cuba? but as you will understand, i am quite skeptical, given what has been seen in the debate tonight.
commission. mr president, just one remark for the sake of good order. one member mentioned that we should do more on humanitarian aid: this is not part of the political equation. we provide humanitarian aid in reaction to need, and provide it where that need is, without considering politics. this point is very important, and it is important that i take the time to repeat our position. we are in cuba when needed for humanitarian reasons, as in all other places including north korea etc. i am quite sure that this is not up for discussion here. i am not saying this because i feel it is a real problem in this house, but because it is important never to make that mistake. i tend to agree with those who have said that the common position has not produced any results. the problem is, however, what other instruments are available that will produce results? it is not easy and the risk of being disappointed is always present. as i see it there is an ongoing struggle between hardliners and more constructive, open-minded people in the leadership in havana. this moves back and forth in an unpredictable manner and is a reaction both to internal events and a reaction to the pressure from cuba's big neighbour. there is a need to do more than putting our rhetoric on autopilot – referring to basic principles of human rights and so on. i do not think this discussion is necessary in parliament. i do not see this parliament as a place where we should have a discussion for or against human rights. this really is not the place. if we are serious about it we have to be pragmatic. the other approach is the easy one and we have to get into the game, we have to get closer to the real politics of change and progress in cuba if possible. nobody can give any guarantees. in 2003 i attempted to see what could be done and i was disappointed. however, this was a reaction resulting, in my view, from the very unpredictable inner circles in havana. another frustration that we run into in europe again and again is that, whenever it is attractive to do so, it is a fashion in cuba to put us in the same category as the us. it makes it very easy – even convenient – for hardliners in havana to do this, supporting their view – driven by paranoia – that the whole world is against them. this is wrong, europe is not against cuba and definitely not against the cubans. we do not like the regime, we do not like the old fashioned dictatorial way of managing a society, but we also do not want to be associated with the way in which the united states conducts its relationship with its neighbour. europe is different; our thinking concerning cuba is different and we have to pay some sort of investment to make this an inescapable reality in the internal discussions in havana. for our part, we have to be willing to have some element of risk to make it impossible for the hardliners to portray europe as if europe and the us are the same thing. that is the investment we must be courageous, constructive and self-assured enough to make. if we are not ready to make an investment to create a real basis for a dialogue – one that is defined by us and not by a paranoid representation of the way the hardliners in havana see the outside world – we are only relying on autopilot-defined rhetoric or, in other words, the old common position. we should not make it a straitjacket. please remember that for a number of years the very same common position did not prohibit europe from engaging in a bolder, closer and more critical dialogue on human rights with cuba. we did that against the same background in terms of the common position. european investment in the cuban economy also grew remarkably while we held the same common position. it did not make investment growth impossible. we should not interpret it in such a narrow sense that it becomes a straitjacket. in conclusion, there is a need for a more innovative approach.
the next item is the report by the european council and the commission statement on the european council meeting in brussels on 4 and 5 november 2004.
acting president of the council. president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to report to you today on the last european council on 4 and 5 november. the european council had a good meeting. the focus was on areas of major importance to citizens, such as the economy and the area of freedom, security and justice. we also discussed communicating europe, improving communication and interaction between politicians and citizens about europe. finally, we discussed a number of current external issues, including iraq in particular. mr president, recent developments in my own country leave me no choice but to begin with the subject of freedom, security and justice. these developments are a stark but powerful indication that further cooperation in these areas is essential. mr president, i am very grateful to you for the words of support and solidarity you expressed to the dutch government and to the whole of dutch society on 15 november. allow me to respond to that in my national capacity. the netherlands is proud of its diversity. we have taken in large groups of people from many countries since world war ii. some because they were persecuted, others because they could build a better future with us and were welcome reinforcements on our labour market. the contribution of these people to the quality of our society is great and appreciated. now they belong with us, they and their families. but belonging requires attention and effort on both sides. integration is a complex issue, involving identity, norms and values and getting to know and understand each other. at the same time, integration also requires respect for and adherence to the fundamental rules of our society: the european union has a duty to protect the rights of the individual, and to ensure that the rights of the individual are respected. the last time i was allowed to speak in this house, i said, speaking on the prospect of turkish accession to the union, that islam or religion is not the subject. i'm repeating that today. in our european society, people of different faiths can live together and with each other. what it cannot do is to use faith as a pretext to attack people, schools, mosques or churches. we must all oppose this with conviction and determination. mr president, in your statement of support last monday you pointed out the significance of recent events in the netherlands for european society as a whole. i agree with you on that. the netherlands is convinced that we should cooperate better in the fight against terrorism. the violent reactions and backlashes following the murder of van gogh once again showed that there is tension in the cohesion of our society. we must also learn from each other in europe in the field of the integration of minorities. i shall now go into more detail on the multiannual programme for justice and home affairs, the hague programme, which provides for a further development in both areas. last week a ministerial conference was held in the netherlands, where the subject of integration was already being discussed in depth. of course, we have made direct use of the existing operational instruments over the past week. the ministers for justice and home affairs also asked their colleagues to discuss the events in the netherlands and to discuss european aspects of them in the justice and home affairs council next friday. i shall return to my role as president of the european council and to the subject of this debate. the european council adopted the hague programme on 5 november. the programme outlines our cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice for the next five years. the hague programme is also the first comprehensive package of measures negotiated with 25 member states. this shows that we can agree on important, complex policy issues in a wider union. it gives me confidence for the future. in a europe without internal borders, we must join forces to tackle problems such as organised crime, terrorism and human smuggling. we also need to work intensively together on asylum and migration. asylum seekers and migrants have a right to clarity in europe. the hague programme builds on the tampere programme, which first formulated cooperation in this field in 1999. it is based on contributions from the member states, the commission's tampere evaluation and the european parliament's recommendation of 14 october this year, in particular as regards the decision-making methods. the hague programme is giving important new impetus. gaps between national systems are closed, which reduces the opportunities for phenomena such as crossborder crime. the proper implementation of the measures taken will be monitored more closely and their effectiveness will be regularly reviewed. what is the specific nature of the hague programme? the union will facilitate the exchange of information between the police, judicial and intelligence services of the member states on the basis of the principle of availability of information. on terrorism, it was agreed that member states would go beyond the maintenance of their own security, but would also focus on the entire territory of the eu. institutions such as europol and eurojust will play a central role in the fight against crime. we will continue to work vigorously towards a european area of justice in which it is no longer possible to escape punishment by moving to another eu member state. we will also work towards a common asylum system in 2010, with the same procedures in all countries. we want one system that is humane, but also clear, so that the "asylum hop" ends. the eu will also take a more effective approach to illegal immigration. this includes a common return policy and improved border controls. we are now working on basic principles for integration which will, if possible, be established during the dutch presidency. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. another point i would like to mention in particular is the introduction of qualified majority voting and co-decision in the field of asylum and migration, something you insisted on in your recommendation of 14 november last. we are going to make the union more effective and more democratic in this area, as you have asked us to do. this will be implemented from 1 april 2005. although there was a strong desire in some member states to make various exceptions to this, in the end this was limited to the exception of legal migration. it is, mr president, an ambitious and realistic programme. the european commission will present an action plan for this next year. the individual legislative proposals contained therein will be submitted to you in the consultation and codecision procedure. i am particularly pleased that there is now agreement between the member states on the objectives and the way we want to achieve them. a safer europe for free citizens whose fundamental rights are well protected. that's what we're all about. the other important theme of the recent european council was: the commission is also preparing the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. the year 2004 is marked by a slight recovery in the european economy. but that recovery is not a given. to secure our european model of society, we will have to adapt further. the most important achievement of the kok report, mr president, is that it clearly demonstrates the relevance, and even more so the need, of the lisbon strategy. the main objective of the strategy is fully achieved. there is no alternative. the world around us is changing because alongside the us, economies like china and india are competing not just on wage costs, but also increasingly on quality and innovation. but europe itself is changing: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. yet the path is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. knowledge, innovation and competitiveness must be the pillars of the european economy's ability to adapt. europe must develop its strengths further. with a broad and highly educated population, flexible labour markets, active social systems and an innovative ecology, europe will be able to meet the global challenge. the kok report thus makes it clear that the lisbon strategy must be pursued vigorously. in a number of respects, progress has been made. in the field of labour force participation, the internal market and the spread of ict and the internet in schools, universities, public authorities and households. but let us not fool ourselves, at the same time kok indicates that efforts, especially by the member states themselves, must be stepped up. otherwise we will certainly not achieve our objectives. it is precisely this process, the pursuit of structural change while maintaining public support, that i had a very lively informal discussion with my colleagues at the recent european council. the participants exchanged practical experience and outlined their visions for the future. it was a good debate, precisely because the kok report refers to the member states themselves. what struck me in that informal discussion was the consensus on the need for reform and the need to communicate well with society and civil society on this. the heads of government were also unanimous in their willingness to assume political responsibility for the lisbon strategy, at european level but also at home, in their own countries. it was also pleasing to see that the president-designate of the new european commission, mr barroso, confirmed that he sees the lisbon strategy as the core of his policy and that he will take responsibility for it within the commission itself. i have now spoken about the roles to be played by the european council, the commission and the member states. but the kok report also addresses itself directly to the european parliament, which should be more involved in this strategy. it contains a suggestion that you establish a standing parliamentary committee focusing on the lisbon strategy and growth and jobs. i am naturally interested to hear what you are going to do with this recommendation. i would like to turn to the other subject, mr president, communicating europe. you yourself have spoken to us about this. the need to communicate better with our citizens about what europe is and does requires constant attention. i am glad that future presidencies have indicated that they will continue to discuss this matter. the ratification of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe is an important opportunity to further improve communication with citizens. the citizens of europe share essential values and it is up to politicians, you and i, to convey the european project of europe. the council, the european parliament and the european commission must work together to ensure a genuine open debate. i therefore welcome the intention of the incoming president barroso to put a vice-president in charge of the communication portfolio. we look forward to the communication strategy announced, which will be presented before the european council in june. i now come to the foreign policy issues we have discussed. iraq first. the european council was able to agree on a package of short-term support measures for iraq. we offered this package to the iraqi prime minister allawi, who had been specially invited by us, at lunch on 5 november. we also offered iraq the prospect of long-term cooperation and dialogue. allawi thanked us for supporting the iraqi reconstruction process. in this process, elections play an important role. i therefore attach great importance to the announcement by prime minister allawi that these elections will take place in january at the latest, despite the continuing security problems. our meeting with allawi and the aid package we have offered demonstrate that the european union is willing and able to play a greater role in providing concrete support for the political and economic reconstruction process in iraq. it also gave a signal of unity within the union in relation to iraq. a second foreign policy issue on which the european council took a position was iran. let me be clear: we want a complete and lasting suspension of all enrichment and reprocessing activities by iran, on a voluntary basis. only then can the european union offer iran the prospect of talks on long-term cooperation, which will be beneficial for both the european union and iran. the agreement reached with tehran over the weekend is a step in the right direction. we must first of all be satisfied that the suspension can be adopted quickly by the international atomic energy agency. if this attempt fails, there seems to be only one option left, and that is to go to the un security council. mr president, this brings me to the middle east. a new window of opportunity seems to be opening up for the middle east peace process. the israeli decision to withdraw from the gaza strip will hopefully provide a new opportunity for the implementation of the road map. the european council has wanted to respond to this. we have now adopted a short-term action programme to support the palestinians in the areas of security, reforms, elections and economic development, on a proposal from javier solana. the successful implementation of this programme will of course require the cooperation of both the palestinians and the israelis. now we mourn the death of president arafat. i hope, however, that the palestinian authority, when a new president is elected in january, will make a fresh start quickly and decisively. the situation in sudan remains extremely difficult. the european council called on the government of sudan and all other parties to comply with international requirements. we have a clear stick here, namely the possibility of imposing sanctions if necessary. if that is really necessary, then we will do so. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in ukraine. i hope that the ukrainian authorities will understand the signal given by the european council. the second round of the presidential elections will take place next sunday. this round will have to be more democratic than the first. if not, we must consider the consequences of our decision. as the conclusions show, mr president, the european council did not discuss the enlargement of the union. we shall do that in december. we shall then know the outcome of the debate which parliament will have on this subject. the decisions we face in relation to the four applicant countries could change the union profoundly. in order to be able to face the decision-making and implementation of decisions with confidence, it is of great importance that parliament has a clear, positive and forward-looking vision. i hope that this will be the result on 2 december. finally, mr president, a few words about parliament itself and about the commission. first of all: i share your desire to resolve the lingering question of the status of members of this parliament. transparent and unambiguous agreements on the salary and other conditions of employment of your members of parliament avoid perceptions that undermine confidence in the institutions and the union as a whole. the presidency, in the person of minister for european affairs nicolaï, will examine in the coming period the possibilities of reaching agreement on this issue which has been unresolved for too long. this will also be discussed with you, mr president, in the coming days. strictly speaking, the outcome of the debate which this parliament had three weeks ago on the proposed commission was not on the agenda of the european council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i want to do that now. the union has not been brought into crisis by this debate; on the contrary, it has been strengthened by it. the treaty assigns parliament an important role in the appointment of the commission. it is the parliament's right to reject a proposed commission. the fact that parliament would have done so if the commission had been put to the vote is an expression of political self-consciousness. it is equally good that the president-elect, mr barroso, has drawn the political lessons from the debate he was supposed to draw. he has been able to adjust his commission so that he can get the widest possible support in this parliament. it thus lays a strong foundation for cooperation between parliament and the commission. the council also sees the outcome as positive. the council wants to get to work quickly, with parliament and the commission. we have important issues and important choices ahead of us. i hope that the european parliament will express its confidence in the commission tomorrow and that we will then work together.
commission. mr president, as you know the european council focused its work primarily on the lisbon strategy and the launch of a new programme for freedom, security and justice – the hague programme. it also held an exchange of views on a topic of particular relevance to citizens: communication on europe. it heard a presentation on enlargement by the president of the commission, mr prodi, and adopted conclusions on a number of foreign policy issues, notably sudan, iraq, the middle east and iran. finally, the heads of state and government met the prime minister of iraq, mr allawi, over lunch. also on that occasion, the president-designate of the commission, mr barroso, presented an amended list for his team of commissioners, to be approved by the council and submitted to the european parliament for a vote. when he met the members of the european council on 4 november, the president of the european parliament, mr borrell, underlined the role played by the european parliament in this process. i shall briefly highlight the main points discussed at the european council. concerning the lisbon strategy, the european council confirmed the validity and relevance of the process it set in motion in 2000, aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of european economies through a balanced strategy with an economic, social and environmental dimension. it encouraged the council to maintain the momentum of this work. it reiterated the importance of the implementation of agreed measures by the member states. the european council welcomed the presentation by mr wim kok of the report of the high-level group he chaired. on the basis of the kok report, the commission will prepare proposals for the european council next march for the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. it is clear that progress has been made over the past five years but, as president prodi said, we have not done enough and member states still have to deliver on their commitments. i am tempted to repeat that: member states still have to deliver on their commitments! the president-designate, mr barroso, has already indicated that the commission's key priority will be to promote a competitive europe through more growth and jobs and that it will remain fully committed to the implementation of the lisbon strategy in all its components. in this context, the commission also remains committed to better regulation. the presidency has focused work on actions for simplification, impact assessment and measuring the administrative burden. we support these actions and welcome the work of the high-level technical group on better regulation between parliament, the commission and the council. concerning the area of freedom, security and justice, the european council adopted an ambitious multiannual programme – the hague programme – that follows on from the tampere agenda, and that will guide the action of the union in those areas over the next five years. european citizens rightly expect that the eu, while guaranteeing respect for fundamental freedoms and rights, will take more effective joint action on cross-border problems such as illegal migration and trafficking in human beings, as well as on terrorism and organised crime. the hague programme reflects the ambitions as expressed in the constitutional treaty. it puts the emphasis on delivery and implementation; it takes account of the evaluation by the commission of the tampere agenda, as well as of the recommendation on the use of qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure adopted by the european parliament on 14 october 2004. the commission will present an action plan in 2005 to translate the aims and priorities of the hague programme into concrete actions. on 'communicating europe', the european council reiterated the need to increase public awareness of the importance of the work of the union. politicians at both national and international level have a responsibility to communicate the relevance of the european project, to involve europeans through public debate and active citizenship in decision-making. european institutions also have a role to play in this regard. the commission, for its part, intends to present a communication strategy in good time before the june 2005 european council. the ratification of the constitution in all member states will also represent an unprecedented opportunity for discussing european issues with our citizens. that is the responsibility of each member state, but it is very important that we hold an eu-wide debate, rather than leaving it to individual member states. on enlargement, at the european council president prodi presented the progress report, the strategy paper and recommendations, as well as the study of issues arising from turkey's membership, produced by the commission on 6 october. as you know, the european council will address these enlargement issues at its meeting in december.
on behalf of the group. mr president, of the many issues dealt with by the last european council, i would like to focus on two: the promotion of the area of freedom, security and justice and the process of economic and social modernisation in europe, also known as the lisbon process. i would like to congratulate the dutch presidency on the comprehensive hague programme on the area of freedom, but let me add a brief comment. there are still accents missing, priorities, in the momentum of this space. governance is about choices and priorities. we are no longer in the same situation as in tampere i. the time has come to choose priorities and to select the most urgent problems affecting the coexistence of europeans and, above all, the future of coexistence. you have to dare to choose and take risks. that is the new word that the future of this area of freedom and justice in the european union will demand. the council, for example, says that the fight against terrorism must be tackled with impetus, but it still does not have the impetus to clearly identify islamist terrorism as the main problem for the coexistence of europeans. the tragedy of the european hostages, madrid, beslan and what happened last week in the netherlands confirm this reality. more union, more choice and selection. that is why this space must be propelled by a few, very few but solid and identifiable european political projects that tackle the real problems we have, the first of which is islamist terrorism. the greatest european risk in this area is inaction, paralysis and not knowing what to do. the hague programme makes no mention of the necessary protection for victims of terrorism, and i regret that the conclusions did not mention the request made by this parliament for the creation of a european office for victim assistance or the consolidation for the coming years of a political project, a political programme in this direction. mr president, the report on the lisbon mid-term review is well known, but the most important thing is that we should be aware that we are seriously behind schedule. the european parliament must promote this lisbon process on the basis of three very simple and basic ideas: firstly, that this parliament should encourage the governments to show courage and to promote the necessary structural reforms, because more union, more europe and more structural reforms; secondly, that it should convince us that employment is undoubtedly the best social policy, because more union, more emphasis on job creation; and, finally, that the states need, in order to face lisbon, sound public finances, because more union, more requirements for budgetary stability and no more relaxation of the finances of all the european states. mr president-in-office of the council, i thank you for the work you have done over these months.
mr president, the hague council took place 48 hours after the election of a new american president – i repeat, a new american president. this is the best way for us to regard that presidency if we want to preserve the transatlantic relationship. it is very important for europe now, under the leadership of the council and the commission always acting together, to manage at least two very important concerns. if we do that, we will preserve the transatlantic relationship, or at least we will not be blamed for damaging it. first, we must look to the future and stop thinking about how we got to this point. we must stop thinking about the past and all that has happened in the last four years and must now look to the future in a creative and pragmatic way in order to do our best to solve the different problems on the international agenda. second, the commission, and in particular the council, must do everything to prevent the united states – willingly or not – from dividing europe to its own advantage between pro-american and anti-american, pro-bush and anti-bush. our strength will be based only on our unity. if we are united it will strengthen us and then we can solve many problems on the international agenda based on strong cooperation with the new, democratically elected leader of a democratic country, whether we like him or not.
mr president, as we all know, the european council of 4 and 5 november, when it was considering how to communicate europe to the citizen, made a fairly lucid analysis of the situation in which we find ourselves. europe still lacks a personality of its own; it has no face of its own; it is difficult for it to reach the citizens and therefore has a lot of ground to cover in the face of what it means to sell the idea of the political unity of europe. naturally, the council was very concerned, given that we have very imminent challenges around the corner, such as the ratification of the european constitution by each of the member states. and he made a very specific recommendation, which i should like to commend, in a practical sense, namely that we should encourage television debates in each country which would be able to arouse the interest of the citizens in the process of ratifying the constitution. i would like to draw your attention to this because we have a problem: the first country to call a referendum on the ratification of the european constitution is spain. in spain the socialist party is in power, and as we all know, mr borrell, the president of the chamber, is a member of that party, because he does nothing to hide it, even though, because of his arbitrary role, he should be careful to keep his ideological positions a little more hidden. we are faced with a dilemma: either from parliament, which has a vigilant position, we favour partisan positions, or from parliament we favour institutional positions. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to be aware of this situation, to not abandon this vigilant position, and to be very clear that this european institution too must abandon sectarian or partisan attitudes and think about the common project that lies ahead. (applause from some seats)
mr president of the republic of south africa, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european parliament i have the great honour and pleasure of welcoming mr mbeki, president of the republic of south africa. i also welcome mrs mbeki, the ministers and members who are accompanying the president and have taken their seats in the gallery. mr president, the european parliament has always followed developments in your country very closely. in the apartheid era, not so long ago, we passed a number of resolutions condemning these practices and supporting the humanitarian aid that the european commission channelled through many ngos. a delegation from this parliament also participated as an observer in the first democratic elections in your country in april 1994. it is truly impressive to observe, on this tenth anniversary of your country's encounter with freedom, the depth of the transformations that south african society has undergone in less than ten years, from apartheid to your presidency of the republic. mr president, we know that your life has been bound up and conditioned by your struggle for freedom and democracy. since you were fourteen you have been linked to the activities of the african national congress in south africa and in many foreign countries, and then as vice-president of the government of nelson mandela, and now as president of your nation. yes, we should all really be amazed and celebrate the spectacular evolution your country has experienced in these ten years of democracy, how they have improved living conditions, access to housing, running water, education and health. the economic results are also very positive: you have regained sustainable growth, controlled inflation and a significant increase in your foreign exchange reserves. but, beyond these achievements, the most important of which you have achieved has been that of national reconciliation. it is an honour, not only for you but for all humanity, to have ended racial separation, not only physically but also in the minds, in the mentality of citizens, where it is certainly more difficult to make changes, from apartheid to a more equal interracial society, in which there are also no gender inequalities. of course, a decade is not enough time to solve these problems completely. we know that you face difficult challenges, especially in the fight against aids and against public insecurity. our relations have been developed significantly through the multilateralism of the cotonou agreements and also through the trade and development agreement between the european union and the republic of south africa, which now enters into full force after ratification by all the union states. finally, i would like to mention the important role played by your country as a mediator in the regional or civil conflicts that plague your continent. your country, and you personally, have demonstrated this in the great lakes region and are doing so now, in these very days, in côte d'ivoire. mr president, i believe that this parliament has followed with great interest the creation of the pan-african parliament, whose seat is now in the republic of south africa and with which we hope to maintain close relations in the future. for all these reasons, mr president, the european parliament is honoured by your presence here today, and i am sure that what you are going to say next will be of the greatest interest to us all. mr president, you have the floor. (applause) speech by mr mbeki, president of the republic of south africa
president of south africa. mr president, honourable members, on 31 january last year, the international herald tribune published an article by a david harland, described by the newspaper as 'a senior policy adviser on humanitarian affairs with the united nations in geneva'. headed 'talk of emergencies misses the point', the article discussed the situation in africa. in part it said: 'overshadowed by the iraq crisis, quite a lot has been happening in africa recently. ivory coast, having first taken a step away from war, may be edging back towards the precipice. sudan is walking a fine line between war and peace, with an agreement possible to end what is now africa's longest-running conflict'. it said: 'civil wars in burundi and even congo may be a little closer to resolution than they were a year ago. sierra leone seems to have put its horrible civil war behind it. as has angola, until recently the scene of africa's thirty years' war.' it said that the peace between ethiopia and eritrea is holding and then asked the question, 'is africa rejoicing offstage while the world worries about iraq?' in reply it said, 'not at all'. it said that despite the small flashes of good news, africa remains in a horrible mess. it said that pliny the elder said that 'out of africa there is always something new.' ex africa semper aliquid novi. mr harland said that these days it seems the opposite is true: out of africa there is always something depressingly familiar. africa's weak states need long-term assistance. six months after this article appeared, on 13 july, the washington times published yet another opinion about africa. this one, entitled 'an invitation to disaster' was written by one arnold beichman, described as 'a hoover institution research fellow'. returning to pliny's famous expression, mr beichman wrote, 'pliny the elder, roman naturalist and philosopher, wrote in his multivolume 'natural history': 'ex africa semper aliquid novi', or for those who have forgotten their high-school latin: 'there is always something new out of africa'. he asked what could be more new than africa south of the sahara, supported by the united nations, pleading with europe and america for a return of western soldiers to bring peace to liberia? pleading, if you please, for american troops to oust liberia's president charles taylor, since it was american slaves who had been freed and sent to form their own country in 1847. he said how strange it was for europe's one-time african colonies to have made such a request, even if it could mean many years of occupation of liberia by once-hated western armies. from african emancipation to african reoccupation. he said, 'so what am i yakking about? no american troops in liberia or any other part of africa. not one. we've done our share, more than our share in afghanistan and iraq. and we're still not finished in those two countries and we won't be for years to come. let europe - britain, france, belgium, italy, germany, the netherlands, all one-time colonial powers - send in their troops. enough already.' arnold beichman's response to david harland's observation that africa's weak states need long-term assistance was to suggest that rather than the united states, the countries of europe represented in this esteemed parliament should reoccupy africa, and be prepared to stay on for some time, just as the united states, according to beichman, is prepared to stay on in afghanistan and iraq. if indeed this were the eventuality with which all of us must contend, that to solve the problems of the developing south the developed north has to resurrect old colonial empires, then the well-used expression 'ex africa semper aliquid novi' would necessarily have to be rewritten to extend beyond the african shores. i am certain that you will understand that as africans we have absolutely no desire to entertain arnold beichman's wishes, and have no wish to have it said that the newest thing out of africa is its recolonialisation. i am equally certain that neither do you, or the peoples of europe that you represent, want to impose on yourselves what the british writer, rudyard kipling, arrogantly described as 'the white man's burden'. (applause) but before i go any further, let me return to pliny the elder. the motto of the south african museum, the premier museum in our country, says in latin: 'semper aliquid novi africa affert'. this translates into 'africa always brings forth or contributes something new'. you may question why this corruption of a famous latin saying, that is seemingly so beloved to observers of african actuality, has come about. if i may digress briefly into the world of the study of ancient languages and literature, let me explain how the south african museum arrived at this particular rendition of the famous saying by pliny the elder. it transpires that pliny translated into latin what had originally been written by the greek philosopher, aristotle. referring to what he described as a common greek saying, pliny wrote, 'dictum semper aliquid novi africam adferre'. the expression 'ex africa semper aliquid novi' is a later adaptation of what pliny actually wrote. it is for this reason that, for its motto, the south african museum reverted to the original pliny. as a repository of extraordinary exhibits that contribute something new to our understanding of the evolution of our common universe, the earliest being the first fossils of prehistoric animals to be found in our country, the museum chose a motto that says africa always contributes something new to human knowledge. i want to argue that as you are doing in europe, africa is today involved in an extraordinary and creative endeavour that might contribute something new to the understanding of the capacity and ability of human beings to overcome adversity and build a new world of hope. i come from an african country whose future was highly uncertain a mere decade ago. as we approached the end of three-and-a half cruel centuries of white minority rule, many in the world held their breath, foreseeing a cataclysmic clash of races that would transform the streets of our towns and cities into rivers of blood. however, because of what the black and white africans of south africa did, understanding that the taking of even one life would neither remove the great harm that had been visited on millions for centuries, nor create the possibility to repair the damage that had been done, africa's south africa is today at peace with itself. black and white south africans, and others from elsewhere in the world who have chosen to join in this effort, are hard at work, striving together every day to build a new african country that will, in all respects, truly belong to all who live in it. many across the globe who feared for the worst describe what has been achieved as a miracle. if it is, it is, remarkably, a human miracle brought about by the triumphant resurgence of everything that is good and noble in the human soul. as africans, we are proud that this, in addition, is an african miracle. ten years ago, a mere 21 days before south africa held the first democratic elections that gave us our freedom, the most terrible genocide began in the african country of rwanda. in a hundred days a million africans had been butchered by other africans in a barbaric and savage manner that would have been difficult to imagine and is still difficult to understand. the government and people of rwanda have left some of the places where the slaughter occurred as they were when the murderous insanity was brought to an end. so today, a decade later, you can see the skeletons with cracked or punctured skulls of those who were butchered mercilessly and for no reason except as an expression of the same criminal hatred for other human beings that resulted in the annihilation of millions of jews in the holocaust that took place in europe, as nazism gave meaning to its vile project. but even as a south african, well educated in the unbridled savagery of human beings towards other human beings, i have wondered at what could have driven the genocidaires to commit the high crimes that were visited on the people of rwanda. but, much more than this, i have marvelled at the unfathomable depths of forgiveness that have allowed the people of rwanda to sit together in village assemblies to discuss what happened, the killers, together with those who carry the indelible scars of the savagery or who lost relatives and friends as a result of the blood-letting orgy. i have marvelled that simple african folk could convene under the african sky, without even the sophistication of a simple village hall, the hunters and hunted together, and decide to forgive, choosing the path of national reconciliation rather than angry vengeance. in the end, i have felt proud that other africans, the rwandans, could give our continent and all humanity the priceless gift and the miracle of understanding what it means to say 'let bygones be bygones'. because the thunder of the guns broke the uneasy silence in ethiopia and eritrea, in the democratic republic of congo and burundi, in algeria and the côte d'ivoire, in sudan and uganda, it has seemed to some that africa is defined by the chatter of the weapons of war rather than the striving for peace, exemplified by what the african peoples of south africa and rwanda have, within the last ten years, sought to do, to address some of the grossest injustices that have occurred on african soil or, indeed, the peace that has prevailed in the overwhelmingly majority of african countries. nevertheless, as an african, i will make bold to state what i believe are some incontrovertible truths about my continent. under the leadership of african algeria, the war between ethiopia and eritrea came to an end. whatever africa needs to do to ensure that these two sister african countries do not go to war again to resolve border disputes, africa will do. as africans we rejoice that peace in this part of our world is holding and will hold. under african leadership the wars in the democratic republic of congo and the republic of burundi have come to an end. as africans we again rejoice that peace in this part of our world is holding and will hold, and that these two sister countries continue to advance, despite the odds, towards the formation of new governments that will be elected by the african masses in democratic elections, which will be held during 2005. under the leadership of the african republic of kenya, sudan is about to end the long drawn out war between the northern and southern parts of this sister african country, and proceed to the formation of a new government of national unity. similarly, under the leadership of the african union, and whatever the current difficulties, the conflict in darfur and other parts of the sudan will be resolved, leading, among other things, to the redesign of the sudanese system of governance to entrench the principles of tolerance and unity in diversity. the terrorist wars in algeria and uganda are also coming to their conclusion. difficult as this may be for some to understand, as africans we have no doubt that the people of côte d'ivoire will find one another and will together establish a stable peace, reunify their country and join together in electing a government representative of the people of côte d'ivoire as a whole. the commitment of the leadership therefore to the holding of elections by october 2005 is an important signal of their common commitment. you will have recognised the fact that what i have tried to communicate exemplifies the new africa that is striving to be born. this is the new africa defined by the african union and its socio-economic programme, the new partnership for africa's development, nepad. accordingly, i am talking about an africa that is using enforceable legal instruments to commit itself to the fundamental objectives of peace, democracy, respect for human rights, good governance, development and a better life for all. this is a new africa in the process of birth, which has established or is in the process of establishing such institutions as an african commission similar to the european commission, a pan-african parliament, a peace and security council, pan african criminal and human rights courts, an economic, social and cultural council representative of african civil society, an african peer review mechanism specifically dedicated to the objective of promoting good political, economic and corporate governance and, of course, the nepad programme. this is a new africa that has taken firm steps to give concrete meaning to the goal of the political and economic integration of africa, in pursuit of the objective of african unity that is based on the understanding that, as africans, we share a common destiny. it is a new africa that has finally made the statement to itself that it must take responsibility for its destiny, that it must take ownership of its own future. in that sense i speak of an africa that is saying it must be its own liberator from the ills of war and conflict, dictatorship, corruption and the regression that have characterised much of africa over the last few decades. in this context, we therefore contest the assertion made by david harland that 'out of africa there is always something depressingly familiar.' i also contest the argument advanced by arnold beichman, that europe must dispatch expeditionary forces to our continent to rescue the hapless african masses from weak states. a long history of interaction and interdependence binds europe and africa together. that history, as well as current realities, dictate that our two continents should build a mutually beneficial partnership for change. the africa you know so well is poor. yet it is committed to engage in a struggle to eradicate that poverty. it is underdeveloped. but it is determined to extricate itself from this terrible condition. it continues to suffer from such conflicts as you experienced not so long ago in the balkans. nevertheless, it is resolved to act firmly and consistently to guarantee itself the gift of peace. it exports some of its best-prepared human resources to your countries to your benefit. it is obliged to receive back into its borders those driven by hunger to undertake hazardous journeys out of africa, to enter europe illegally, and whom you catch and expel. current global realities that threaten us all, concerning failed states, seemingly unbridgeable ideological differences and international terrorism, are other factors that communicate the message that during this period of globalisation, no country or continent can be an island. in the end, the european union will not succeed in its noble objectives if neighbouring africa fails to achieve the same objectives. as you have worked to build the new europe after the costly second world war and the end of the cold war, you have taken firmly on board two related and critically important objectives of cohesion and solidarity within the eu. on this basis, you have made the determination that you are one to the other your brother's and sister's keeper. through what you have done and are doing through your regional policy, you have succeeded to combine what is practically necessary with what is morally correct. as a consequence of this, millions throughout the union have had their human dignity restored, guaranteeing the possibility for all to thrive in conditions of peace, friendship, mutually beneficial cooperation, and prosperity. we would like to believe that your experience, stretching over many centuries, will have communicated the message to you that were these ever to be built, the walls of a 'fortress europe' would always be easy to breach. we would also like to believe that as you act to help the millions of africans who are working to help themselves, you would understand that, as you come to help us as africans secure our own human dignity you would guarantee for yourselves, as well as ourselves, the possibility to thrive in conditions of peace, friendship, mutually beneficial cooperation, and prosperity. simply put, it is difficult to see how africa can extricate itself from its terrible condition of poverty and underdevelopment without resort to the development model epitomised by the eu regional policy, which has recorded the successes it has with regard to the poor and underdeveloped regions within the eu. in this regard, i believe that we should engage in a serious dialogue between ourselves, to answer the question of whether the existing framework of cooperation between africa and the eu, to address a challenge of poverty and underdevelopment greater than that experienced within the eu, is informed by considerations akin to those that inform your own internal regional policy. perhaps the european and pan-african parliaments could take the initiative to begin this dialogue. it would seem obvious that we should avoid a self-fulfilling prophecy whereby, because of what was not done, we would say that david harland was correct when he said that 'out of africa there is always something depressingly familiar.' i would like to thank you most sincerely for the opportunity you have given us to speak to you, fully aware of the heartfelt importance of this gesture of solidarity. i would also like to take this opportunity to wish you the best as you grapple with the challenge, among others, of making a success of the enlarged union. i am certain that you understand this better than i do, that the more you succeed to establish a strong, effective and successful european union, the more your responsibilities will increase to contribute to the realisation of the goal of a better world for all. success breeds its own responsibilities. and one of the greatest responsibilities of our time is to end the obscene reality of endemic poverty for millions when the means and know-how exist within human society to achieve the goal of a better life for all. as i end and thank you very much again mr president and members of the european parliament for having us, and salute you for what you did to end the system of apartheid, a victory of which we celebrate the 10th anniversary this year, i would like to assure you that regardless of what the sceptics might say, 'semper aliquid novi africa affert'. something new, africa will always contribute something new. i thank you very much, mr president, and thank you all for your attention. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you very much, mr president, for your words. i am sure that you have met the expectations that your presence among us today had. i would also like to thank and note the presence in the house of the president-in-office of the council of the european union, mr balkenende, a presence which is appreciated by this parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m.)
the agenda for today's sitting includes the debate on the statement by mr barroso, president-elect of the commission.
mr president, what happened during the last plenary part-session was important for the european parliament. forced by the democratic will of the chamber, mr barroso had to withdraw his proposal. that was important in strengthening the european institutions and europe itself as a political entity. the danger of a commission not supported by this parliament forced mr barroso to make new proposals and that was a good day for our institution. the most visible problem was supposed to be mr buttiglione's controversial statement during the hearing, but that was merely symptomatic. in the past we have had several commissioners with the same opinions and nothing happened. in fact, the problem was that the majority of parliament thought that the commission should be a better one, more in accordance with real european needs and with european institutions and more sensitive to european peoples and stateless nations. the members of the european free alliance, part of the verts/ale group, are convinced that your new proposal is not substantially different from the old one. mr barroso, when you asked for more time three weeks ago in strasbourg, we hoped you would bring us a better proposal. but we have seen that you are in a way a prisoner of the will of the member states. you are not free to build a commission based on the general interests of europe, as distinct from the interests of each member state. we parliamentarians have no freedom to choose the commission and each of its members on our own. for that reason, mr barroso, we cannot back your proposal.
madam president, the other day in brussels i recalled that when the famous thinker ortega was asked how far away he had to look to see events in order to write history, he replied: 'at a distance sufficient to prevent the profile of cleopatra's nose from being perceived'. i believe that history is now merging with the present, and in this historical present we have to live in, the european union is one of the main actors. with a combined population of 450 million, 300 million of whom already use the same currency, it is the world's leading commercial, financial and industrial power, the world's leading donor of development aid and a key, albeit still incipient, player on the international scene. i believe, madam president, that, as mr durão barroso has said, what the commission must do now is to work on the internal dimension of the project, the internal market and economic and monetary union - with the path and commitments of the lisbon process, to get back on the path of sustained growth and job creation - and on the external projection, exporting, madam president, our system of values, making our contribution to the middle east peace project and restoring our relations with the united states under our convictions. mr durão barroso, the quixote says "thief, then we ride". you are going to be invested with a great deal of political capital tomorrow by the majority of this house. it must use this capital responsibly, it must build a strong commission that serves the interests of the citizens, it must defend the common interest and, above all, it must set the tone for the integration project. do that, mr durão barroso, by fulfilling your commitment to a strategic alliance with this parliament, by establishing - as mr coelho said a moment ago - a positive complicity, and i am sure you will bring to fruition the project of european integration, which is one of the most exciting of our time. i wish you the best of luck in that task, mr president of the commission. (applause) i would like to thank
the council, the president, as you know and as the european parliament knows, the council and the presidency are not formally parties to the discussion between you as parliament and the commission and the president of the commission. we have of course been very involved and we as the council, as you know, mr president, have also agreed to this new list of commissioners. i would like to say that i welcome the proposal presented today by mr barroso, the new president of the new commission. i would like to pay tribute to mr barroso. i would also like to congratulate the european parliament, madam president. i have always said that the european parliament has the right, indeed the duty, to define its position on the new commissioners and the new commission. i have also always said that we have every confidence that the european parliament will take a well-considered position. we look forward to tomorrow. i have every confidence that it will be a wise decision. we have always said from the presidency that there was no crisis at all when this situation arose. on the contrary, it is evidence of a conflict in a mature democracy, which must be possible, and where we must also be able to show that a short-term solution is possible in such a case. i hope that tomorrow we will find that there is a solution. i would like to take this opportunity, madam president, to express my sincere thanks to mr prodi and his commissioners for continuing their work. i would also like to say at this stage that we look forward very much to working with the new commission which has just been presented. finally, madam president, if tomorrow you, the european parliament, take a positive decision, i think we can all conclude that both the european union in general and european democracy in particular have emerged from the situation strengthened.
commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate, for the generally positive reception, for the various points of view expressed. i take note of the support of a majority of you, the concerns expressed, the suggestions made and also the priorities put forward. i would like to comment on three points in particular: firstly, the composition; secondly, possible conflicts of interest; thirdly, cooperation between the european parliament and the commission, with particular reference to the framework agreement. on the composition, first. some of you have criticized me for taking into account the wishes of the member states. it is true that i took account of the wishes of the member states. that is what the treaty provides for. the composition of the commission is not the sole responsibility of the commission president-designate: it is a shared responsibility between the president-designate and the council. so what i'm presenting here is already the result of a compromise. i want to say this so that it is recorded, so that it is clear. it is already the result of a compromise between the president-designate of the commission and the members of the council, taking, of course, also into account the expression of the will of the european parliament as i have been able to analyse it. that is why the debate in october was a positive one. it was during this debate that i was able to understand your main concerns and to meet them. however, i have not been able to resolve all the problems that have been raised and i must tell you why. in part, because you're making conflicting demands of me. for example, some of you are very keen to keep a certain commissioner, while others do not want that commissioner. i was surprised to hear some members of a parliamentary group expressing strong criticism of a commissioner, in this case the commissioner for competition, when it was the same group that insisted that i keep the commissioner in question in that post, which is really curious in terms of the relationship between parliament and the president-designate. in such circumstances it is very simplistic - i should like to say this - to present the composition of the commission simply as a problem between the president-designate of the commission and the council. no, you can't! the president-elect of the commission, when he allocates portfolios, is also subject to conflicting demands from the various political groups, or even from members of the same political group, as we have seen today. i say all this with a view to the future, because i am very interested in two aspects which i consider essential. first, respect for the treaties. as you know, the commission is the guardian of the treaties, which means that i had to respect the treaties. secondly, i am very fond of the institutional position of the commission, not out of institutional selfishness, but because i really believe that we need a strong commission more than ever to move the european project forward. so i'm willing to work with you in a fair, transparent and open way; i am prepared to have this positive complicity with the european parliament, but i must tell you that it will not be at the expense of the commission. i could not accept it, because we all need in europe an independent, credible, strong commission, which respects the treaties. it is very important that i make this clear, so that each of us knows where the responsibilities lie. that is why i have taken account of the wishes of the member states, always respecting the treaties. some have cooperated more than others, i must also tell you. it is true that some member states have shown more understanding than others of the concerns i have expressed. i want this to be said, because i believe that it is important to draw all the lessons from this experience for the future of the commission and for the proper functioning of our institutions. as far as the conflict of interest is concerned, i'll tell you this. first of all, i have taken into account the conclusions of the committee which heard mrs kroes. i have to read you the conclusions of this commission. i'm going to read them in english because i have the original in english. the committee confirmed that mrs kroes had, i read:
thank you very much, mr barroso. i call mr kilroy-silk to order.
mr kilroy-silk, you must respect the time limit for speaking, as everyone else does, and your intervention is not a point of order.
thank you very much, mr. toubon. we will check what you say and correct it where appropriate.
council. that is rather a new question and one which i regret to say i cannot answer immediately.
council. the council has started to review the impact and efficiency of the measures adopted on 5 june 2003 in the light of the objectives of the common position on cuba. the objectives pursued through the common position remain valid, in particular that of facilitating peaceful change and respect for human rights in cuba through dialogue with the cuban authorities and with all sectors of cuban society. the review is still ongoing and i am therefore unable to give any information at this stage on possible conclusions.
i take note of the reply we receive. the council has informed me that the review announced is intended to maintain the same objectives, but i assume that it will try to achieve these objectives by means of more effective measures than those taken so far, which have actually produced not only zero results but even negative results. the president-in-office tells me that he has no further explanation to give at the moment. i understand the discretion of a negotiating process, and i can see from your words the will to improve the instrument to achieve the objectives we agree on.
council. i cannot say much more but i can elaborate a little bit. you may have read in the press that an initial discussion on the revision of the common position took place yesterday in one of the competent preparatory bodies of the council. we will continue this discussion which, among other matters, concerns the celebration of national days in the coming weeks. as yet, there is no consensus. however, i would like to emphasise that all member states agree on the importance of a broad strategic eu policy vis-à-vis cuba, based on the common position. this includes a package of measures aimed at intensifying and structuring the contexts with dissidents and civil society as well as with the cuban authorities.
madam president, i would like to ask the presidency of the council whether it considers that the situation prior to the establishment of the common position was satisfactory in order to promote the development of democracy and respect for human rights in cuba; whether the european union should remain unresponsive after the wave of repression; and, finally, whether it is aware that this morning the european parliament, by a large majority, called for the common position not to be amended and for the complementary measures established on its day after the wave of repression last june to be maintained.
i need advice. mr president, we as the council cannot deal with individual cases in the way suggested. i expect that the next ministerial troika with algeria will be held in 2005, that is, next year, and on that occasion the european union and algeria will certainly discuss the issue of human rights, and these cases can also be included.
i need advice. mr president, we as the council cannot deal with individual cases in the way suggested. i expect that the next ministerial troika with algeria will be held in 2005, that is, next year, and on that occasion the european union and algeria will certainly discuss the issue of human rights, and these cases can also be included.
mr president, i appreciate your answer. you have said it yourself: the european union does not belong to the imo as such. however, the environment is a competence which the constitutional treaty confers exclusively on the european union. i would like to know what the council's position is on the european commission's participation on behalf of the union in the imo. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the council is opposed to this. i want to know which member states are opposed to this measure. are it the european states that have flags of convenience?
you haven't answered my question at all.
on behalf of the group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de rossa, on his sensible report and on the good spirit with which he has defended the amendments we have proposed to the commission, sometimes by way of compromise. the report on the european ombudsman gives us a very clear picture of the kind of problems that citizens face when dealing with the european administration. among other things, the report notes that, despite the work done, in particular by the european ombudsman and his team, citizens still experience difficulties in obtaining information and documents from the institutions. considerable further work is also needed to ensure that the selection process for officials is more transparent and more merit-based. this report also teaches us that if we are to make the european union a more accepting community of citizens, where citizens respect the laws made by the union, it is imperative that we do not give the impression that there are people who are above the law. this concerns not only the european institutions but also the member states, since they participate in the elaboration of the european management through the council and are also responsible for implementing european legislation. we therefore tabled amendments which stressed the need to take account of the commission's future role as guardian of the treaties, particularly at the present time, when the european constitution is about to be ratified. although we are all aware that the mandate of the european ombudsman applies only to, among others, the european institutions, his office plays an important role in monitoring the proper application of community legislation. i therefore invite the european ombudsman, in cooperation with parliament and its committee on petitions, as well as the european commission, to develop the necessary criteria to clarify when an infringement procedure should be opened and the principles on which these measures will be based. finally, i would like to refer to the amendments i have tabled on the need to develop a comprehensive system of non-judicial measures, to give more power to the citizen. the reason for this amendment is, again, that the role of the european ombudsman is to give citizens the opportunity to express themselves on matters which affect them.
i would like to welcome the delegation from the swiss federal assembly, chaired by mr david eugen. the delegations of switzerland and the european parliament are holding their 23rd interparliamentary meeting in strasbourg today. i would like to emphasize the important role of interparliamentary meetings between switzerland and the european union in promoting cooperation and mutual understanding between our citizens. on behalf of the european parliament, i wish you a fruitful and productive meeting. i would also like to welcome the delegation of the azerbaijani parliament, led by siruz tebrizli, chairman of the human rights committee of the azerbaijani parliament and head of the azerbaijani delegation to the eu-azerbaijan parliamentary cooperation committee. the delegation attended its annual meeting with the european parliament delegation. i hope you have a pleasant stay in strasbourg.
mr president, there are no points of order during the voting and i shall not allow you to speak. questions of order will be taken at the end of the voting. i beg you not to disturb the session.
mr. toubon, please sit down, or leave.
mr. farage, you will speak when i give you the floor. i would ask you to use your speech to reflect on what you have said. you have the opportunity to ask that your words not be recorded in the minutes. if you do, you will have to be prepared to accept the legal consequences that may follow.
mr barroso, commissioners, you have just won the confidence of the european parliament, and i congratulate you on that. this is the end of an important chapter in the history of european parliamentary democracy. europe needs a strong commission and a credible parliament, and we have them today more than yesterday. whatever our differences of opinion, i think we can be satisfied that our debate has reached the citizens of europe. i would like to tell you, mr barroso, that parliament, like you, wants a new partnership between our two institutions based on mutual respect, on mutual trust, so that the european union becomes ever more democratic, more legitimate and more effective. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. mr president, still on behalf of mr prodi's commission, i would like to share with you some views of the commission that simply reflect some of the concerns which you have raised now and which are raised in the resolution about the situation in côte d'ivoire and recent violations of human rights. the european union has consistently expressed its deep concern at the violence by both camps since the start of the crisis in september 2002. while the situation improved slightly last year, it has deteriorated again since the beginning of this year, particularly recently. as mrs kinnock said, côte d'ivoire was known as an economically successful country, but clearly there is no long-term economic prosperity without political stability and respect for human rights. in march, the government security forces and parallel militias indiscriminately killed innocent civilians in abidjan and committed massive human rights violations. we know that at least 120 people were killed. abidjan has changed and mrs kinnock compared it to kinshasa. as mrs aubert and others have stressed, several mass graves containing more than 100 bodies were discovered in june in the northern part of the country now controlled by the ex-rebels of the new forces. freedom of expression and the media have been serially breached. on 1 november the main opposition newspapers were looted and vandalised by the young patriots. pro-gbagbo extremists took control of the public radio and television. they have been inciting violence against foreigners. international radio transmissions have been sabotaged. another issue of concern is the government's decision to cut off electricity supplies. in the northern part of the country water supplies are also cut off. under pressure from the international community, including the commission, electricity supplies were resumed, only to be cut off again. if the government continues to cut electricity this will lead to a humanitarian catastrophe. the commission is considering preparing a new humanitarian aid decision to improve the situation, notably in the north of the country. the international community must react to the situation and to the violation of human rights. the commission therefore welcomes the un sanctions, the arms embargo, the travel ban and the freezing of assets, not only for those who block the full implementation of the marcoussis and accra iii agreements, but also for anyone else found to be responsible for serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. the commission fully supports the african union and president mbeki's mediation efforts. on 15 november president mbeki met president-designate barroso in brussels. the commission shares the concerns expressed by president mbeki about côte d'ivoire's future. in august this year the commission proposed to the council that consultations be opened under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. at that time the member states did not wish to proceed with the proposal. they did not want to jeopardise the accra iii agreement, which was signed just a few days before. recent developments and the non-implementation of the accra iii agreement demonstrate the importance of opening article 96 consultations to put pressure on the côte d'ivoire authorities to resume talks.
thank you, chief. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the debate is closed.
commission. mr president, i should like to express my appreciation of the contribution being made by the european parliament and its role in raising awareness through the activities it organises or provides space for, for instance here in strasbourg. respect for human rights in tibet is a strong concern of the european union and, as mrs lichtenberger said, 'a key item' on the agenda of the eu-china human rights dialogue. i fully share the view of mr mann that freedom of conscience is first among political freedoms. the european union has on several occasions expressed concerns about individual cases in tibet. the eu troika raised the situation of tenzin deleg rinpoche in beijing in september in the last round of the eu-china human rights dialogue and also in an ad hoc approach to the chinese ministry of foreign affairs on monday this week, asking for information about his whereabouts and state of health. the union expressed the hope that the death sentence imposed on him will not be upheld and called for a judicial review of the case. the european union is fully committed to following this issue very closely. the execution of tenzin deleg rinpoche would send a very negative signal, clearly damaging the credit recently gained by the chinese government through recent gestures such as the visit of special envoys of the dalai lama to tibet, which were warmly welcomed by the international community. it would also be a very bad sign for eu-china relations, at a time when we are preparing for our annual summit. more generally, as part of its overall policy on tibet, the european union has called for many years and will continue to call for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities, as the only realistic way to find a lasting solution to the question of tibet. we consider the recent third visit of the dalai lama special envoys to china to be an encouraging sign of progress. in its dialogue with china, the european union has already regularly expressed concern about the extensive use of the death penalty, referring to its long-standing position in favour of abolition. it has continued to press hard for at least the introduction of a moratorium. in the fight against terrorism, it has also stressed that this fight can only be successful if it is firmly rooted in respect for fundamental principles governing international relations, particularly as regards safeguarding human rights.
thank you, chief. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the debate is closed.
commission. mr president, distinguished members of parliament, i appreciate your contributions, which were completely unequivocal. the commission shares your views and is greatly concerned at the eritrean government's tightening of its grip in the area of human rights. the government is introducing restrictions on freedom of expression and the right to information, association and movement. some of these points have been elaborated by mrs lichtenberger and mr kohlíček. the commission regrets that there are no indications that democratic reforms will be introduced in the foreseeable future. the restriction of religious freedom is part of the overall trend of severely restricting civil and political rights in eritrea. the commission is aware of recent reports from different international partners to the effect that the eritrean government has violated human and religious rights and is restricting freedom of worship for some religious minorities. according to various sources of information, the government has harassed, arrested and detained members of non-approved religious groups, such as jehovah's witnesses, and adherents of the baha'i faith. on 4 november, the commission witnessed events in asmara during which eritrean security forces indiscriminately arrested thousands of youths suspected of evading military conscription. these arrests took place in the streets, shops and offices, at roadblocks and in homes. those arrested are being held in army prisons and are thought to be at serious risk of ill treatment. reports say that some have been shot dead and that many more were wounded following a disturbance at one prison. relatives and lawyers have no access to the prisoners. so what is being done? the commission is endeavouring to address the problem through support for ngo projects in eritrea in the areas of human and civil rights awareness, strengthening of civil society organisations and independent media. eritrea is a focal country under the european initiative for democracy and human rights and is allocated eur 1.6 million per year from this budget line. it has been difficult though to identify civil society and human rights projects because of the weak capacity of local civil society and the fragile political situation. secondly, the commission considers that we are seeing a pattern of human rights violations and, in coordination with member states, is closely following developments. the commission is analysing the situation and will soon present proposals on the basis of cotonou agreement, as was called for by mr kohlíček, mr gahler and mr tannock. however, the commission must emphasise that it has been very difficult to establish dialogue with the government of eritrea. now that it has been established, the commission considers that it should be pursued with a view to seeking improvements in the internal situation and external relations. we wish to avoid threats and feel that confidence-building is more likely to contribute to an improvement of the human rights situation. the commission will continue, as part of this dialogue, to address human rights violations, and in particular the case of the so-called asmara-11 group and the continued detention of independent journalists. in conclusion, on regional relations, the european union is anxious, as a witness to the algiers agreement on the solution of the border dispute between ethiopia and eritrea, to maintain open, balanced and measured dialogue with both parties.
thank you, chief. the vote will take place at the next voting time. the debate is closed.
we shall now vote on the motions for resolutions which were discussed this afternoon. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc).
before we go to the vote on mr mann's oral amendment, do any members have any objections to the introduction of the amendment? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 november 2004.
before we begin this afternoon's sitting, i would like to draw your attention to three important events that are happening at the moment, two of which are on the agenda. the first is the situation in ukraine, on which we are going to have a debate and to which parliament is sending a delegation this evening. i would like to point out that mr taraschuk, chairman of the european affairs committee of the ukrainian parliament, is here with us. as you know, the president of the ukrainian parliament was due to visit us today, but the events in his country mean that he cannot be with us and that we can count on mr taraschuk to be here instead. i should like to inform you that at 5 p.m. the foreign affairs committee of the parliament will be meeting in extraordinary session, before which mr taraschuk will appear. as you know, the committees do not normally meet at the same time as the plenary, but i think that the exceptional circumstances in this case justify this. at five o'clock, therefore, mr taraschuk will appear before the committee on foreign affairs in extraordinary session. the second item is an anniversary item which is not on the agenda, but i think it is good for parliament to remember that a year ago a group of prominent israeli and palestinian personalities met in geneva to sign a peace agreement on the middle east based on the peaceful coexistence of two viable states, proving that there are answers to the difficulties - borders, settlements, security, refugees and the problem of jerusalem - which have always blocked negotiations. this was not the only initiative of civil society, nor did it aim to replace the "roadmap" or the work of the quartet. the protagonists of that event, mr yossi beilin and mr abed rabbo, cannot be with us today, but it is an honour and a pleasure for this parliament to welcome naomi chazan and ali rashid, who are here following our debate from the gallery. we welcome them and those they represent. ladies and gentlemen, i would point out that there is still a long way to go and that there are many obstacles to the resumption of the peace process in the middle east. the forthcoming elections in palestine will be a good opportunity to contribute to the development of freedom and democracy in that land, for which it will be necessary to guarantee the free movement of the electorate and the possibility for everyone, including the inhabitants of east jerusalem, to be able to register in an electoral register. finally, i would remind you that last week, at a meeting of the conference of presidents, the king of jordan told us that there was a way to achieve peace, but that this way would only be open for two years. i invite you to continue to do everything possible to achieve peace for the peoples of the middle east. the third item on which i would like to draw your attention is on the agenda, since today is world aids day and this parliament is going to debate it. it is a matter of extreme gravity: three million deaths in 2004; 40 million infected human beings worldwide. we are reminded of this in our debate today and we express the great concern of the european union and the international community. the fact that more and more women are suffering from this disease, which makes them more vulnerable and unequal, allows us to speak, unfortunately, of the feminization of the aids pandemic. in dealing with this dramatic problem today in the european commission's statement and in our debate and resolution, we wish to express our concern at this very serious situation, a concern which i myself expressed in a press release issued before the start of the plenary session.
the order of business is now being established. a revised corrigendum to the agenda for today's and tomorrow's partsession has been distributed and, following the meeting of the secretaries-general last monday, i propose a number of amendments which have been approved by the majority of the political groups. the first concerns the suppression of the eu-russia summit declarations. mr cohn-bendit, i will also give you the floor, but let me finish by describing the amendments proposed by the meeting of the secretaries-general. secondly, it is proposed that the report by mr coelho on standards for security devices and biometric elements in the passports of citizens of the european union should be added to the aids declaration. it is also proposed that mr mulder's report on the amending budget no 10/2004 and no 11/2004 of the european union for the financial year 2004 be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 132 of the regulation and that a vote be taken tomorrow, thursday. the final item on the agenda for today's debate is the joint debate on two reports by mr gauzès on the agreements providing for measures on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments between the european community and the republic of san marino and the principality of monaco respectively. i would like to make it clear that mr farage has proposed another amendment, on which i shall also be speaking.
i should like to inform the house that mr farage has asked the president of parliament, in accordance with rule 132, to amend the agenda of the sitting by replacing an oral question to the commission on football in the european union with an oral question on the commission's approval. mr farage, you will take the floor, but first i want to make it very clear that, under the rules of procedure, your request is out of time for at least two reasons: because it has not been tabled within the time limits and because the request for an oral question to the commission is not within the time limits either. the commission's appeal to article 132 of the regulation is therefore formally correct but, procedurally, overdue. the president will, however, apply the relevant rule and, accordingly, authorize you to make your proposal for an amendment to the agenda. according to the rules, you have one minute to do so.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in ukraine.
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to say goodbye to you and tell you that frankness is never incompatible with kindness. i shall not go into the details of what i have said in the previous speeches; i want to concentrate on other matters. the news we receive from the council is sometimes inaccurate and partial, often because of the great secrecy of the institution. that is why i think this oral question is useful to clarify certain matters. we all know that some member states have asked for payment appropriations for the next financial perspective to be below a certain percentage of the gross national income of the union. we have also heard rumours that other states are defending this maximum, but applying it to commitment appropriations, although it is not clear whether they are launching it as a balloon or whether they are really convinced that this is enough to cover the real needs of the european union. it seems that both sides have a fundamental political objective to get their minimum proposals accepted and then to impose 'the necessary cuts' to reach those minimums. could you tell us, mr president-in-office of the council, whether this method of setting limits on resources and then making cuts also corresponds to a certain method within your deliberations? if so, we are not afraid, because we suffer it every year when we pass the draft annual budget. is it the brick method, which is how the building block is translated into english, that has prevailed in your work so far, and what has been the result? the letter signed jointly by those six states last december also states the following, which i would like to say in english, since that is the original language of the document:
mr president, this is the first debate on the financial perspective and i therefore hope that we will have another opportunity for the chairman of our committee to take part. the question today focuses on a number of issues which are certainly not neutral in substance: firstly, the involvement of the european parliament, which has been the subject of several speakers, such as mr böge - and i am grateful for the declaration of good intentions made by the presidency-in-office of the council - and secondly, the timetable of work. for many reasons, mr president, it does not matter whether the work ends in an agreement in 2005 or in 2006, because if we are forced to extend the budget, as the commissioner responsible for the budget acknowledged yesterday, it will be precisely cohesion policy that will pay for it. i would therefore like to draw the attention of some colleagues to the risk to solidarity in the european union posed by an insufficiently substantiated pulse between the european parliament and other institutions. we would like to see an agreement during the luxembourg presidency. i would therefore like the dutch presidency to inform us of the state of play in the work to adopt the broad lines of the reform at the european council on 17 march. we are glad that the presidency has said that the basis for this debate will be the european commission's proposal, but how do those who propagate their europeanist faith intend to meet the costs of enlargement, to extend community policies inward and outward and at the same time to reduce the budgetary allocation of the european union? i do not know whether they have some magic wand or miraculous powers, or whether they are trying to destroy cohesion for the old member states, that is, to make the poor regions of the statistically or effectively rich countries bear the cost of the economic development of the poor regions of the new member states. they have only two weeks to answer these questions if they do not want the dutch presidency to be bogged down at the end of its term. you go on thinking about how to justify wanting more europe with less money, because nobody understands that. what is well understood is that less money equals less europe.
i need advice. i thank all the members of parliament for their comments and the precise questions that have been asked. let me start by responding to the question of the time path. the timetable and the planning that we have as a council and that some of you have asked questions about, first by mr böge, but later also by mrs schroedter and mr hatzidakis. the latter two also spoke of rumours and signs that the timetable i have just given would be disturbed. there were references to a summit and other rumors. i can help you out of this dream, mr. president. there is only one schedule, and that is the schedule i have presented to you. the main point is that it is indeed our plan and our intention to reach agreement in the council in june 2005. i can add that i agree with mr böge's comment on the lack of a declaration of assurance by the court of auditors. he knows and you know that we in the council share this concern of the european parliament. some of you, in particular mr galeote quecedo, have asked for the precise status of the timetable and the timetable. the fact is that we are now preparing for the council meeting on 17 december and that we will then do what was agreed. that means that we hope to take a decision on the principles and guidelines for the financial perspective and on the package, the overview of what we have achieved with the building-block approach. that is what is before the council and the hope is that we can take a decision on that on 17 december. i shall return to the building block approach in a moment, because there are a number of questions connected with it. i note that here too, not unlike in discussions in the council, at this stage various priorities are already being mentioned which should be included in the new financial perspective. the debate on the added value of what is happening at european level is an important general point of departure - mr böge mentioned this explicitly. i naturally recognize some of the priorities that have been put forward here. for example, the lisbon strategy - mentioned by many - the international role of the european union, cohesion policy, security and, in particular, the 4% ceiling for the structural funds. these are all elements which are currently being discussed here, as in the council, and which are part of the proposals we are formulating. this brings me to the approach we have adopted as the presidency for the steps to be taken in this half-year to prepare the new financial perspective. first of all, i should like to emphatically dissociate myself from questions about the 1% approach put forward by mrs dührkop dührkop and mrs buitenweg, who were very pleased that this approach had been abandoned. as president-in-office of the council, i have not let anything go, but i have not withheld anything either. i am not speaking here on behalf of the netherlands, nor on behalf of the group of six, as you know, which has taken that view on the 1%. i am speaking as the president of the council. as president, i have done exactly what some of you have criticized. for example, mr karas, who says: "let's talk about priorities", or others who said, "how can you solve this problem from a financial approach anyway". we have chosen the building block approach precisely because it allows us to put political priorities, the priorities of substance, first and not money. that is the step we are trying to take between now and 17 december. so in line with many of the comments i made before this. the commission proposal is the starting point - and i would like to repeat this because i think there is some ambiguity about it. however, we all know that the member states are entitled to take a different position from that proposed by the commission. the building-block approach is really nothing more than an attempt to collect, organize and summarise the different positions of the different member states by category, by subject matter, so that we as the council can decide on a better policy on the subject matter. that is only helpful to the whole discussion and perhaps to you as well. i am therefore pleased to hear that, as mr walter has explicitly said, the european parliament will in fact make a similar attempt. i think that this answers most of the comments on the building block approach and the approach of the presidency. then i'll come to the other aspect. not the expenditure, but the revenue and the own resources. a few of you have made a brief comment on this. we agree on the importance of this. the right of parliament to give its opinion is undeniable and clear and you will undoubtedly use it when it comes to this part of the financial perspective. the generic correction mechanism has also been mentioned by some of you. all of this is part of the commission's proposals. mrs buitenweg mentioned eurotax as a specific element. the commission has proposed to open that possibility for the next financial perspective in 2014. i can tell you that this is a subject of discussion in the council and that discussion will continue. i can tell you that, as the debate stands, it does not appear that the council will be advocating that this should be done sooner than the commission has proposed. another concrete point raised by some of you - mrs jensen, i believe, first, but also mr walter and others - concerns the duration of the financial perspective and the seven-year period. the commission has proposed to use the seven-year period once more and this point is still being discussed in the council. we have not yet taken a position on that. you also know that the budget, the multiannual budget, is an estimate, a framework within which, of course, the annual implementation takes place. it is not, of course - and i do not need to explain this to you - that we are hereby fixing everything for seven years, or for any number of years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, i look forward to working with the european parliament as long as i continue to play the role of president. i can tell you that the council is looking forward to it as well. we will not take the line of the fait accompli, as some of you fear. first of all, the council always, and especially now when it is preparing these financial perspectives, pays close attention to the opinions, statements, signals and resolutions of the european parliament. i cannot speak formally on behalf of the luxembourg presidency, but i can say here that it seems to me a very good idea to continue the informal way in which contacts between the council and the european parliament can take place in this preparatory process. that brings me to my final point. i will not go into the worst-case scenarios that have already been suggested by some of you in connection with the question of what we are going to do if things do not go well. let us not, please, make a self-fulfilling prophecy and let us look at how we have dealt with the confrontation between the european parliament and the council over the annual budget. you know that there has been tension and that it has been a tough negotiation. and let me be honest, the initial positions of the council and parliament were also quite different, but we have a good compromise. a compromise which is good for the european parliament, good for the council and, above all, good for europe, and which, despite the tension of the negotiations, has been achieved in time. i think that should be an example of how we can also deal with the multiannual budget.
the council, the president of the council, may i point out in advance, in response to your kind words, that in view of the earlier schedule for today in your parliament i have unfortunately an obligation which would have required me to leave at seven o'clock. so if you don't mind, i'll apologize after reading the statement.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. of course, a lot has already been said, but let me start by emphasizing that russia has become an even more important partner for us, especially as a result of the enlargement of the european union, because it is the european union's great neighbour and we want it to become a strategic partner. we must be able to talk to russia about all the issues, about where we want to go, but also about international issues, even if we sometimes have differences of opinion. and what happened at this summit on november 25 was that we actually had a very good, very businesslike atmosphere to talk to each other and we went into a lot of detail. the colleague has already mentioned that we wanted to have the four large rooms together as a package. this package was the focus of our negotiations. we also discussed international issues, and as he rightly said, ukraine took up a very large part of the time. the commission has been particularly concerned with the four common areas, and we have been particularly concerned with maintaining the quality and the totality of the package. because we didn't want to have the individual rooms negotiated, so to speak, individually. that is what we agreed, and that is what will be the framework for the future. i thank the presidency of the council, but i think the commission has also made a very important contribution to our continuing to defend this position. and i am confident that through very intensive further negotiations we can actually reach a complete conclusion of this package in may. the contents of the package have already been partly discussed. the conditions must be created within the common economic area to bring about a strengthening of economic relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also decided, and i think this is particularly important, to establish an energy dialogue between the european union and russia and, above all, to use the successful cooperation in this field as an engine for other areas. we also discussed the investment climate in russia and, in this context, the situation of yukos. we have stressed above all the need for transparency, stability and predictability. we have also decided, as the honourable member has mentioned, that the common economic area will also deal with environmental issues in particular. this will enable us to tackle the environmental challenges together, and we all, of course, have expressly welcomed russia's ratification of the kyoto protocol. this will now enable us to strengthen our bilateral cooperation, but above all cooperation in international forums on climate change. in the second area, the area of freedom, security and justice, we have decided to continue our intensive discussions. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union. it is important for us to anchor fundamental issues of protection of fundamental rights, the rule of law and human rights in this area. we also agree that we want to address issues of facilitating travel, asylum and also issues of return in this chamber. the european parliament and the council will be represented by the commission, the european parliament and the council. we have also offered to strengthen our cooperation in the fight against drugs, for example with third countries such as afghanistan or with the united nations, which plays an important role in this area. on the subject of chechnya, we have offered russia to help rebuild the country as soon as the security situation allows. as regards the external security area, it should enable us to cooperate effectively on all issues of conflict in our common neighbourhood, so that we can promote the common concern for stability and security in the region. it has become clear that we still have to convince russia that it is in our common interest to cooperate on issues of common neighbourliness. we also discussed the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and civil protection, and we intensified our cooperation. finally, we also want to extend our cooperation in the fields of research, education and culture. and here too our aim is to promote inter-societal contacts and, above all, to further promote innovation. we have, of course, discussed a number of individual questions, three of which i would like to highlight: firstly, on a proposal from the commission, we decided to set up this new forum in which we want to discuss all questions of regional cooperation. we want to set up a new subcommittee within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement, where we can also discuss issues relating to kaliningrad. we believe that it is important to discuss not only transit issues but also, and above all, economic and social development issues. secondly, we have agreed to establish regular consultations on human rights issues, including minority issues and fundamental freedoms, as the honourable member has already mentioned. and thirdly, we have reached an agreement on an institute for european studies in moscow. you know that the situation in ukraine was the focus of the working lunch, and we have very clearly stated exactly the position that we have and that we have expressed before. and i can say that we agreed that the situation can only be resolved by peaceful means and within the framework of the ukrainian constitution. we have said that the ukrainian people have a right to decide their own future and the future of the country. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my best wishes to commissioner benita ferrero for the fulfilment of her important responsibilities. today is your first day in a plenary session in brussels, although i know that this afternoon is your second debate. the truth is that you have landed in your responsibilities at a very delicate moment on the international scene; you have been to the international conference on iraq; you have met on the sidelines with the quartet to try to relaunch the 'roadmap' in the middle east peace process after the death of yasser arafat; you have had to attend this eu-russia summit; we have the political crisis in ukraine. you'll have plenty to do in the next few days, commissioner. it is clear that with the enlargement of the union we have extended our borders to new neighbours. you have referred to the new northern neighbour, russia, belarus, ukraine and moldova, and it is true that we are now linked to russia by an association agreement based on principles and values which are part of the fundamental commitments of the european union. principles and values, madam commissioner, which in my opinion have not been compatible with the statements made by the russian authorities on the european union's position in ukraine, as they have said that the european union's position could lead to a bloodbath in that country. i have seen that president putin has rectified, accepting the results after the meeting and the talks he had with the german federal chancellor. as you know, madam commissioner, this parliament has an unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights; it does not have to preach about a country, a region or a continent; it is truly a universal planetary character. it is clear that the relationship with russia is not about exalting lights or hiding shadows. the ratification of the kyoto protocol has obviously brought the light to the world, and in the shadows you have mentioned the human rights cases and the situation in chechnya and, for example, the yukos case. i think, madam commissioner, that it is important for the commission to have a definite policy of friendship, of relations but on the basis of our values; in this sense, we must also follow very closely the recent measures taken by the russian authorities in that always difficult equation between security and freedom, which has occurred after the attacks in north ossetia in a decentralized sense. so, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that we are deepening these relations. russia plays a huge role in ensuring stability in the new neighbours, it has a fundamental influence in the balkans and also in central asia, it is a nuclear-armed country, it is a member of the quartet with us and therefore we must develop cooperation and a strategic partnership, but not at any price, but based on the values and principles that we as the european union have.
mr president, on world aids day i would first of all like to draw the attention of the institutions, as other members have done, to the most dramatic aspect of this tragedy: its spread among women and young people. in this way, in addition to fulfilling my personal political commitment to women, i am also pointing to the enormity of the problem in terms of humanity, in terms of development and in terms of the global future. half of the 40 million people infected with the virus are women and girls, a proportion that is growing in almost all regions, reaching 57% in sub-saharan africa. for the industrialized world, i'll just give one example: latino and african-american women make up a quarter of the women in the united states and 80 percent of the aids cases. the feminization of aids is another, the latest, form of violence against women, who have not been provided with the means to defend themselves against the disease, with basic means such as sex education, the protection of reproductive health rights, or information on measures to prevent infection. social norms that impose ignorance on girls and young women about sexuality and that do not criminalize sexual violence within and outside marriage multiply the danger of the spread of infection. the socialist group welcomes the commission's decision to make education a priority in its policy framework for combating poverty-related diseases. secondly, mr president, i want to make a complaint. i denounce the responsibility of the catholic hierarchy for its negligence in the fight against aids. today the vatican marks the international aids day by condemning the disease as a pathology of the spirit, which it calls "moral immunodeficiency syndrome", which ethically and technically disqualifies the catholic church. through the secretary of the spanish episcopal conference - spain is precisely the country in europe where the number of infections is increasing the most - the catholic church intends to politically boost the global campaign to fight aids by warning about the insecurity of condoms and proposing chastity and fidelity as a method of prevention. this statement would not be worth further comment if aids were not the death sentence of millions of people, including children; if sexual violence, which leaves no choice for chastity, were not a daily reality in many societies in africa and asia; if there were not 15 million orphaned children; if it were not an attack on men's sexual and reproductive freedom; if it were not, in short, an attack on human rights and a real genocide. we are talking about life or death; we do not know whether the episcopal conference has understood it that way.
mr president, esport i ciutadania: sports and citizenship. this was the slogan of the catalan autonomous government during the second spanish republic. sports are an instrument of social cohesion and social inclusion, and also an instrument of community identification. for these reasons we have to promote sports practice and a sports social organisation. for stateless nations, community identification through sports becomes very difficult. in the uk this is solved through the existence of the scottish, welsh and northern ireland national teams. in catalonia we have several national teams that cannot compete in international competitions. last summer the catalan national roller hockey team was allowed to participate in the ‘b’ world championship in macau. catalonia was the winner and was supposed to move up automatically to the ‘a’ world championship. however, the intervention of the spanish state changed the votes so our national team was not recognised at the meeting in the usa last week. that is a bad example of the intervention of a nation-state with a sports federation in a world series.
i call the meeting to order.
the next item is the debate on the annual report of the court of auditors for the financial year 2003. the president of the court of auditors, mr fabra vallés, who we welcome to this house, has the floor to speak first.
president of the court of auditors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 15 november last i presented the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2003. i had the opportunity to give a detailed account of the observations and conclusions contained in our report. today i would like to focus my presentation on the conclusions in three areas: the declaration of assurance, budgetary management and the commission's reform process. chapter 1 of the court's report contains the das statement of assurance which is published in the official journal together with the consolidated accounts of the community. as in the previous year, the statement of assurance is based on four pillars which are the result of the evolution of the methodology used by the court to provide greater robustness to the outcome of its work. these four pillars are: first, the quality of the control systems of the community institutions and the member states; second, the examination of a sample of commitments and payments in each area of expenditure; third, the analysis of the annual declarations of the directors-general of the commission; and fourth, the examination of the work carried out by other auditors. as a result of this audit work, the court is of the opinion that the consolidated annual accounts for the financial year 2003 presented by the commission have been drawn up in accordance with the financial regulation. the accounts shall give a true and fair view of the revenue and expenditure for the financial year and of the financial position of the community, with the exception of the entry for several debtors. the court notes, as in previous years, that in 2003 the accounting system used by the commission was not prepared to ensure a complete inventory of its assets. the accounting modernisation plan approved by the commission in 2002 should take effect from january 2005. the court considers that the full implementation of the new set of rules and accounting plans will require considerable effort on the part of the institutions whose accounts are to be consolidated. as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions and as regards the revenue, commitments and administrative expenses, the court considers that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the court's observations on the other chapters of the budget reveal weaknesses in the systems for monitoring and controlling the management of community funds in general. in the agriculture chapter, payments were again affected by material errors. in the field of structural actions, weaknesses persist at member state level in the monitoring and control systems. in the chapters on internal policies, external actions and preaccession aid, errors affecting the legality and regularity of transactions have also been detected. therefore, despite the considerable efforts made by the european institutions in recent years, the european court of auditors recommends that efforts be stepped up in the management and control systems in these areas. the court again emphasises that in the areas of shared, indirect or decentralised management, more errors continue to appear and that these are the areas where more efforts need to be made. in this respect, opinion 2/2004 of the court on the single audit method, to which i shall refer in more detail below, is a concrete proposal for improving control systems which could in turn contribute to better management of community funds in the member states. i shall now turn to the comments on budgetary management. the total payment budget for 2003 was eur 98 billion, with payments of eur 90 500 million, an increase of around 6% on 2002. the budget surplus has been reduced significantly, from eur 15 billion in 2001 to eur 7 billion in 2002 and eur 5 500 billion in 2003. despite this improvement, the court considers that the budget surplus figure is still high and that it indicates the existence of systematic problems which should be corrected by better budget forecasting. the main cause of the surplus remains the difference between planned and actual expenditure. the court noted that it would be unrealistic to expect 100% implementation of the budget, given that 80% of the community budget is shared or decentralised and requires action by the member states for its implementation. however, in 2003, the rate of implementation of the budget, as far as the implementation of payments is concerned, reached a ratio of 92%, which is a considerable improvement on the figure of 86% in the previous year. as regards the budgetary management of the european development funds, we note that the renewed report on financial management is an effort to improve the quality of information on the management of the financial year. the commission has endeavoured to reduce the volume of commitments still to be settled. the implementation of payments was also hampered by a shortage of financial resources: eur 270 million. to complete its report, the commission should include the costs of managing the european development funds. i will end my presentation by referring to the state of play of the administrative reform launched by the commission in 2000. in february 2004, the commission published a report on the degree of implementation of the actions resulting from the white paper on reform. the court of auditors acknowledges the progress made by the commission in the new control framework, but considers that the results of the implementation of the system are not yet satisfactory. in the court's view, for eight of the actions that were theoretically completed at the end of 2003, including those concerning minimum internal control standards or internal audit structures within each directorate-general, the degree of implementation is still not satisfactory. the court therefore considers that, despite the progress made, the implementation of the commission's internal control standards cannot be considered as yet sufficient to give reasonable assurances as to the legality and regularity of transactions. the court encouraged the commission to complete the implementation of the new internal control system, in particular in the areas of shared management, risk analysis and debt recovery. finally, let us remember that the reform of the commission is based on the principle of the responsibility of the manager, accountability and evaluation of results. in this connection, the european commission presented, for the first time in 2003, an analysis of the degree of reliability of its supervisory and control systems in relation to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, thus assuming responsibility for the management of the community budget, as provided for in article 274 of the treaty on the european community. the commission has stated that it is not yet in a position to make an unreserved statement on an important area of its management, the structural funds, which has been corroborated by the court of auditors' observations. in other areas of management, the commission refers to the statements of the directors-general, 21 of which contained reservations. these reservations limit the assurance given by directors-general in their statements. the court also considered that, despite the efforts and progress made by the commission, these efforts were not sufficient if they were not accompanied by an improvement in the controls of community funds by the various administrations involved in the management of these funds at national level. this issue was addressed in opinion 2/2004 of the european court of auditors, issued last april, on the feasibility of introducing a single audit model, to which i referred at the beginning of my speech. this opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the section for industry, commerce, crafts and services, chaired by mr de gucht. the purpose of the single audit model would be to develop an efficient and effective internal control framework in the european union, which ensures the reliability of the results and allows their use by all parties involved in the control. this is an area where the european institutions and the member states, with the collaboration of their national control institutions, can work closely together to develop a legal framework for improving the control of community funds. before i conclude my speech, i will be allowed to take a few words off the agenda. as you know, my term as president of the court ends in january 2005. i have thus completed the three-year cycle which i began with the presentation to cocobu of the court's work programme for 2002. during these three years i have worked to develop and maintain the best working and trusting relations with the european parliament, mainly through collaboration with its committee on budgetary control. better communication, information exchange and closer cooperation between the two institutions have been promoted. i think the balance is positive and that the court is providing parliament with independent and professional assistance of a higher quality every day. that can only be achieved by respecting the independence and mandates of our respective institutions. the court also undertook internal reform of its organisation and structure to make it more effective in carrying out its duties and to give a 25-member college greater flexibility and efficiency. this reform, which is a direct consequence of enlargement and the treaty of nice, was designed to ensure its effectiveness while respecting its legal framework. at the same time, the court has worked with the audit institutions of the new states to prepare them for the important work they will have to do as liaison institutions in the court's audits in their respective states. these, together with other technical and human resources measures, should help us to continue and improve our work in an enlarged europe. today i think we can celebrate the achievement of these goals. i would like to end by thanking you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. very painful. (applause) i would like to thank
before i give the floor to the commission representative, on whose behalf mr kallas is speaking, i should like to thank the president of the court of auditors on behalf of parliament for the work he has done over the years. we may still have the pleasure of seeing you back here, because you may be reinstated, but if you are not, this will be your last appearance and i do not want to miss the opportunity to express to you the satisfaction that parliament has had in working with you and with the institution you preside over, which is of vital importance for this parliament to be able to fulfil its monitoring functions. thank you very much, mr fabra. i call mr kallas on behalf of the commission.
mr president, i would like to add my thanks to mr fabra vallés for his three years at the head of the court of auditors, for the consolidated professionalism of the court, the dynamism of its activities and the credibility of its reports and opinions, which are so useful and fundamental to the work of the european parliament and the members of parliament who are here. however, as a new member of parliament, i must express my discouragement and dismay because one more year, and listening to colleagues who have been here for many more years, the discouragement is even greater, the presentation of the annual report is a frustrating exercise; all the efforts and progress made by the various institutions, and ultimately by the commission at the request of the european parliament, are still not enough to achieve a positive declaration of reliability. reservations outweigh progress and citizens continue to receive bad news about irregularities and unsatisfactory situations. i also believe that ten years is a long time, that it is enough, and that at this moment when negotiations are beginning on a new financial perspective, in a europe enlarged to 25 and soon to 27, it is absolutely urgent to reach a compromise between the institutions, so that the shared responsibilities are finally clear and the growing danger of renationalisation is avoided, the siren song of those who, discouraged by the bad news about the accounts every year, see the solution in reducing the union's budgets and returning to less community, less solidarity and less cohesive formulas. i am not satisfied, ladies and gentlemen, i am not content to see how eurosceptics and renationalisers use the court of auditors' report and the inability to give a positive statement of reliability to attack what is at the heart of the european union, its economic and social cohesion and its policies for the future. i therefore appeal to the commission, to mr kallas, who showed great willingness on his first day, and to the court of auditors, to mr fabra vallés, with his experience, to find an innovative way forward, a firm interinstitutional commitment with the european parliament, which will lead us to a positive declaration that will guarantee european citizens that their contribution to european construction is well planned, well spent and contributes to the added value we all seek.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me just start by saying: colombia is an important country to us. a number of european union interests are at stake in colombia, ranging from trade and investment to drug production and trafficking, criminal networks, terrorism, migration flows and the regional dimension of the conflict in colombia. but more than anything else, values that we share with our colombian friends are at stake, such as respect for human rights, the rule of law, but also poverty alleviation and sustainable economic development. i am therefore grateful to you for the opportunity to explain my assessment of the situation in colombia and the policy we intend to pursue towards that country. i will discuss the strategic objective of our approach and the underlying fundamental principles and instruments we use to achieve it. the continuing serious violations of human rights and the continuing very difficult security situation for many colombians naturally cause us great concern and call for our full solidarity, especially with the colombian people. our strategic objective is therefore to achieve a lasting peace and to help the colombian people to achieve that peace. the search for a peaceful solution is also the cornerstone of the whole strategy we are pursuing towards colombia. there will be no purely military solution to this conflict. it is therefore important to look for ways of reaching a peaceful agreement, including with all the illegal armed groups that are willing to really negotiate a peace agreement. in this context, the commission also attaches great importance to the good offices of the un secretary-general, particularly with regard to the illegal armed groups in colombia. the current involvement of the organization of american states in the mission of support for the peace process in colombia and the mediation of the mexican government between the colombian government and the ejercito de la liberación nacional are also very valuable contributions. all illegal armed groups must cease hostilities. the european union is also committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. the european union must consider how to support the peace negotiations with financial resources once a comprehensive strategy on armed groups is in place. we are convinced that the vibrant colombian civil society also plays a very important role in these peace negotiations by maintaining a constant dialogue with the colombian government and the international community. in the short term, our main objective is to meet the commitments made by the international community and the colombian government, in particular at the london conference in 2003. we must keep our promises as regards financial aid, but the colombian government must also fulfil its obligations. the commitments made to the united nations high commissioner responsible for human rights are important points of reference. the meeting convened by the colombian government for 3 and 4 february 2005 will be a very good opportunity to reaffirm the solidarity of the international community with the colombian people, but also to recall the commitments. our strategy towards colombia is therefore based on three fundamental principles: firstly, the promotion of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, also linked to the monitoring of the human rights situation. secondly, responsible governance. we support the colombian government here, particularly in its efforts to strengthen the rule of law. the third is, of course, sustainable development, especially the development of social cohesion, which was also discussed at the guadalajara summit in may. the european union and the commission are using all available foreign policy instruments to achieve this. on the one hand, it is an instrument of active diplomacy, here we support the international peace process. the second important instrument is the highly favourable trade regime for colombian exports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is of course also a matter of sustainable economic development. and the third instrument is development aid. the commission has also been able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe, and to the countries of the former soviet union. i think we can take pride in going above and beyond our commitments. at the end of the current programming period we will be able to go further, and at the 2001 donor conference we announced 140 million euros for colombia for the period 2001-2006, the largest sum we are spending for a country in latin america. at the end of 2003 we had already committed eur 136 million and i am convinced that between 2004 and 2006 we will have made all the amounts available, which are even much higher than those promised. the community's assistance, which is administered by colombia itself, is intended to achieve the following priorities: the strengthening of institutions, especially in the judicial sector, the rule of law, is very important here. secondly, the support for the peace process through the so-called peace laboratories, which are comprehensive programmes for integrated local development, complementing peace initiatives at the local level in particular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thanks to the reform of the management of community aid, initiated above all by my predecessor, chris patten, net disbursements have increased enormously, reaching almost eur 30 million in 2003. i have tried to explain the reasons for good colombian policy. i think we must continue along this path and you can count on the commission to do so in the future.
on behalf of the group. mr president, it is clear that the human rights situation in colombia is far from perfect, and it is also clear that the european parliament has to contribute to the cause of peace, to support human rights and to the recommendations of the united nations commissioner for human rights. recommendations that are often addressed not only to the colombian government but also to armed actors such as the paramilitaries, the farc and the eln, organisations which are on the european union's list of terrorist organisations. the farc in particular are responsible for more than 6 000 kidnappings and more than 300 murders in recent years, and also for anti-personnel mines, which unfortunately kill an average of two people every day in colombia, of whom 40% are civilians and half of those 40% are children. president uribe has developed a democratic security policy which has brought about a whole series of improvements. there have been 26% fewer kidnappings in recent years and a murder rate that is the lowest in the last 18 years, but there are a very significant number of mayors under threat. we must not forget that president uribe was one of the few heads of state who came to this parliament, who appeared before the plenary and who, moreover, appeared before the committee to engage in a frank dialogue with the members on the human rights situation in his country. this dialogue has been continued by the vice-president, who comes every year to dialogue with non-governmental organisations, to whom he reports on the progress being made by the government in this field. mr president, i would like to say that it is only through ignorance or bad faith that we cannot recognize the progress that has been made in recent years thanks to the policy of the colombian government. it is clear that our parliament must support the cause of human rights, that the government can and must do more, but it is also clear that those who extort, those who murder, those who blackmail and those who cause victims are the terrorist organizations - the far and the eln - and we must be implacable with these organizations, which are the ones who are really deliberately attacking human rights in that country.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i am pleased that mrs ferrero-waldner is here on behalf of the commission. the dialogue between her and parliament was excellent when she was president of the council, and i am sure it will continue to be so for the next five years. and i also welcome the way in which you have presented the subject of colombia. indeed, colombia is probably one of the most wonderful countries in the world, from the aesthetic point of view, from the point of view of its landscapes, from the point of view of its wealth and from the point of view of its people, who are wonderful, charming, pleasant. but colombia has a problem, and it's a problem of structural violence, because the demonstrations of violence in the streets, the confrontations between guerrillas and drug traffickers, are the expression of a deeply unjust situation, of enormous inequalities within the country, so that even if we end the guerrillas and drug trafficking, if these problems are not solved, violence will reappear. i think that the commissioner has made a clear, objective, very precise and very constructive statement on this point. it is not a question of tackling just one of the problems: there can be no peace if the violence continues, but there can be no peace if we do not solve the underlying problems. i think the line drawn by the commissioner is the right one, because it covers all aspects, human rights, security, development and, above all, social development. any government policy will have to include all these aspects, and the commission and the european union as a whole will have to contribute to the colombian authorities and any other responsible organisations being able to move forward. it is true that terrorist or guerrilla organizations have carried out terrorist acts, but we must also remember that many trade union leaders of the colombian left have been murdered by paramilitary organizations, which in many cases we do not know whether they are the government itself. i therefore believe that the commissioner's line is the right one and that we should strive to help the colombian people along that line.
mr president, alvaro uribe was elected two and a half years ago. during this time nothing has been easy, but the vast majority of colombians - the vast majority, according to all the data - believe that the situation in their country is better today than it was two years ago. it is therefore not surprising that support for the uribe administration is higher today than when he was elected, with a program that makes the fight against terrorism and the pacification of the country its main objective. some of the data are encouraging. the situation of public order has improved, although colombia remains an insecure country. the number of terrorist attacks and kidnappings has decreased, although colombia continues to experience attacks and kidnappings. drug production and export have declined, although colombia remains a key country in international drug trafficking. despite whoever is behind it, there is no serious deterioration of human rights in colombia. the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law is committed by terrorists who kidnap and extort money, not by those who do not give in to the blackmail of the kidnappers. nothing has been easy and there is much to be done. right now, in the midst of the controversy, the colombian government is trying to move forward in a negotiation with the auc paramilitaries. in view of the undoubted difficulties of this process, the european union must take a much more active stance, exerting pressure on the parties and ensuring that the rights of victims are respected. our cooperation with colombia is close, but we can do more, at a particularly delicate moment, by supporting the organization of american states, which has a broad and clear mandate in colombia, by funding programmes to verify the truce, legal assistance to victims and socioeconomic projects for demobilized guerrillas and their victims, by facilitating the reintegration of combatants and by creating mechanisms to avoid impunity for blood crimes, among others. there is indeed a lot to be done, and the european union must and can cooperate in this. commissioner, we cannot stand aside at a particularly delicate moment, excusing ourselves with arguments of political correctness.
mr president, mrs ferrero-waldner, there is no doubt that after forty years of armed conflict, colombia continues to suffer from a significant deficit in peace and social justice. and yet the uribe government continues to insist on a fundamentally military response, while still failing to recognize the existence of an armed conflict with political roots. the european union can do much more to promote peace in colombia. firstly, the european union can demand that the colombian government comply with the recommendations on respect for human rights made annually by the union's office in bogotá, as a precondition for receiving community aid. secondly, the european union's aid must be used to dismantle paramilitarism as a phenomenon, which means going far beyond the simple abandonment of arms and tackling its political and social dimension. thirdly, the european union must make a clear commitment to facilitating processes of exploration, political negotiation and peace agreements with all the actors, including the eln and the farc, which in turn also requires gestures on the part of the latter, such as the release of the thousands of people who have been kidnapped. and fourthly, the european union must also promote humanitarian agreements within the framework of the geneva conventions, as proposed by the permanent assembly of civil society for peace.
mr president, unfortunately the reality in colombia is that of terrorism fuelled by kidnapping and blackmail. many people probably do not know, or do not want to know, that in addition to the former presidential candidate, ingrid betancourt, more than 3 000 colombian citizens are still being held hostage by guerrillas, treated in an inhuman way and in deplorable conditions in the jungle. i wonder if that's the way to fight for social justice. not long ago some members of the former european parliament welcomed president uribe by leaving the chamber in protest at the lack of democracy in colombia. they probably didn't know or didn't want to know that mr. uribe had won the first round of the presidential elections - a fact unprecedented in the history of colombia. perhaps many are also unaware, or do not want to know, that the farc, the eln and the auc are terrorist organizations included in the list of terrorist organizations of the european union. only in this way can the crime of terrorist financing be explained which an ngo from a member country of the european union has just committed by handing over $8 500 to the farc. the uribe government has entered into dialogue with a section of the paramilitaries willing to disarm, with the only requirement that they lay down their arms. and he's been heavily criticized for it. however, the case of the farc is different. the possibility of negotiation is not open as long as they refuse to disarm, as long as they are not also recognized as a clearing zone in which to continue to commit crimes. i remember that it has been five years since president pastrana tried to negotiate; but society will never find support for the farc, a society overwhelmed by the pain and blood of its loved ones. in the meantime, part of the international community, through so-called ngos, is criticizing the legitimate and democratic government of that country, influencing and even manipulating many of us. finally, i would like to recall the experience of spain. we did not begin to defeat the terrorism that was operating in spain until the european union took it on as something that also affected the coexistence of europeans. let colombia follow suit.
i would like to ask the president-in-office to speak on the basis of rule 145 of the rules of procedure on personal grounds. i said in my speech that the farc terrorist guerrillas have kidnapped 6,000 people in recent years, politicians, civilians and military personnel, who are being held hostage in the jungle in inhuman conditions, many of them sick and suffering great suffering and hardship. i have also said that the farc guerrillas have many people kidnapped, and i am well placed to do so because, when the dialogue table with president pastrana was open, i met with mr marulanda and, with other colleagues in the european parliament, i pleaded for the release of several european union hostages. these facts and figures cannot be ignored and i have simply said that only ignorance and bad faith can prevent these facts from being taken into account. mr president, in my speech i asked the government to take up its responsibilities; that it can do more and better, although it has done a lot, and that, of course, the burden of proof should fall on those who extort, kidnap, murder and blackmail colombian society.
parliament has exhausted its agenda. i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 a.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 2 december 2004.
formally, to replace one report with another, you have to vote first on the deletion of the first and then on the inclusion of the second. (parliament adopted the proposal)
your intervention does not concern a change of agenda. the presidency will not prevent any subject from being raised in the debate with the council.
i shall be glad to do so, provided there is consensus on the matter and no opposition. otherwise we would have to have a debate. i will convey the european parliament's concern, but we will not change the agenda.
i would be happy to convey this and other concerns, but i cannot write a letter analysing the specific political situation of a country and going into all the extremes that could be analysed without parliament having debated and voted. there is a very specific issue that can be the subject of a letter, expressing an ad hoc concern about the matter, but i do not think i should go into the whole political situation in cambodia without a previous debate or resolution in parliament. so, if there are no objections, my letter will simply express concern about the issue raised by mrs napoletano, inviting her to discuss, if you consider it appropriate, by the appropriate regulatory procedures, the political situation in cambodia. i beg you to understand, mr. pannella.
in accordance with the agenda, we now move on to the one-minute speaking time.
mr president, i would like to denounce to this house the abolition in spain of one of the principles of all democracy: the separation of powers. the government has just brought forward a law to subject the judiciary to its dictates and, to this end, has not hesitated to manipulate legality and parliamentary usages. mr president, with the implementation of this law, the spanish legal system will be the victim of great instability, inefficiency and manipulation, as it will create blocking situations in the general council of the judiciary which will prevent it from making progress in its decision-making. and these will always be subject to the wishes of the government. this outrage will probably be examined by the constitutional court, but the european union cannot remain impassive in the face of acts that undermine the independence of the judiciary. on the contrary, it should be asked why a member state would wish to control the functioning of the governing body of the judiciary. if the european union really wants to become an area of freedom, security and justice, it must intervene to guarantee the independence of the judiciary in spain.
if you give us specific information on this, the presidency will be happy to put in place the mechanisms provided for in our rules of procedure to intervene.
i take this opportunity to make a few remarks on this. in fact, at that time, various theses were put forward. i want to make it clear that parliament is an extraterritorial body. the french legislation does not apply when it meets in strasbourg if it could affect the freedom of expression of any member. it must be clear that the reasonable limit is the one that everyone must apply to avoid that with their words they can violate the honour of another colleague. in no case can it be said that french legislation is applied in strasbourg to limit the freedom of expression of any member. i want that to be very clear.
mr president, i would like to remind you and the whole parliament that in just three months' time we will be marking the first anniversary of the worst attack on european soil in decades. i am referring to the attack in madrid on 11 march 2004. the work of the 9/11 commission of inquiry is coming to an end. it has done a great deal of work and some of its conclusions are clear: the sole and exclusive responsibility for the attack has been confirmed in a credible and unmistakable manner by islamic radicalism; the president, mr rodríguez zapatero, has today proposed an international pact against radical islamic terrorism, for which a dialogue between europe and the moderate islamic world is indispensable; the importance of preventing international terrorism has also been demonstrated, and mr aznar's government has also seriously failed, both in its lack of foresight and in manipulating public opinion from 11 to 14 march 2004, with an exclusively partisan approach.
i take note of what you say. we shall see how we can influence this.
this concludes the shift of interventions. i am sorry that i cannot give the floor to other speakers. mr posselt, would you like to intervene on a point of order?
it's not a motion of order.
the next item is the report by mr eurlings on turkey's progress towards accession (a6-0063/2004). i call mr eurlings.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr eurlings on the excellent work he has done on a subject which, as we have seen in this debate, is controversial and difficult. it really does elicit strong support at the start of the negotiations. on the other hand, some members have shown fundamental opposition. i think that this debate must be conducted calmly and on the basis of objective premises. turkey is a candidate country by decision of the european council in helsinki. the prodi commission has given a positive opinion on the opening of negotiations, which, as mr rehn has told us, has been endorsed by the barroso commission. turkey is linked to the european union by an association agreement and is part of the customs union. at the same time - and this is important in the debate - turkey is a loyal partner of the west in the atlantic alliance and, in my view, mr president, the question we have to ask ourselves at this moment, given the strategic situation of turkey, which has an absolutely crucial position in the transit of hydrocarbons from the caspian sea and also has a decisive position in terms of the stability of the middle east and central asia, is whether we want turkey to be linked to the western value system of the european union or whether we want turkey to drift towards islamic fundamentalism or enter the orbit of russia. the response of the eurlings report is a critical but constructive response and i believe, mr president, that there are other questions on the table which are also legitimate and legitimate, such as whether european public opinion is now ready to admit turkey into the union. but time and the citizens of the european union will answer that question in due course.
mr president, this is not a debate for or against turkey: that would be a huge debate and i do not wish to be part of that game. this is a debate about our own future as part of a political project and about the legitimate right of turks to benefit from the kind of growth and stability that can only be brought from europe. it is our duty to find new kinds of relationships with our neighbours and allies, so that both goals can be made equally compatible without endangering the success of our own projects and dreams and making them collapse, which is what could happen if things are not done properly. membership of the european union cannot be the only option we give to our neighbours and friends. that needs to be said very clearly. other very clear options have to be kept in mind. finally, the european leadership has ignored public opinion and the citizens of europe too often. this time that neglect on the part of our political elite – treating our citizens as babies – could have catastrophic effects.
mr president, today's report on turkey is of vital importance, because the decision taken by the european council on 17 december has a historical significance which goes beyond the political frontier indicated by mr eurlings' report. the committee on industry, research and energy is also keen to highlight and welcome the progress made by turkey in the economic field in line with the criteria laid down by the union and, in particular, we want to stress its conformity with the acquis communautaire in areas such as energy policy, industrial policy, research and development and telecommunications. but although the line taken is correct, progress in each of these fields has been uneven, so that in future progress will be necessary in at least four areas which i shall mention by telegraph. first, it must improve administrative capacity to complete and strengthen the implementation of the acquis communautaire. secondly, there is a need for more independence in the monitoring of state aid. thirdly, it must increase the budget devoted to research and development in relation to its gdp. and fourthly, the legal framework in the telecommunications sector should be reviewed. that is the essence of the amendment which the committee on industry, research and energy is proposing to add to mr eurlings' report.
the president of the commission has made a statement on the strategic political guidelines for the commission's action.
mr president, the socialist group has ambitions in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian action which we shall try to include in parliament's recommendations to the commission and its president. the impetus we want from the union is based on the european constitution and it is very encouraging that here, as in other areas, the constitution is imposing its logic and its budget even before it is ratified. the main contribution of the socialists to the process of european construction was to introduce solidarity as one of the essential pillars of our project, solidarity not only as a great moral and political value but also as a guarantee for peace, stability and prosperity in europe. in an exercise of remarkable consistency, we have succeeded in bringing this principle up to date in the constitution, translating it into the reality of a globalised world. in these new circumstances, intra-european solidarity can no longer suffice, at least for the socialists. we can no longer be satisfied with solidarity confined to the territories and the citizens of the union. on the contrary, this solidarity must also be a sign of the european union's identity on the international scene, solidarity in particular with the peoples who are struggling against underdevelopment, in pursuit of their dignity and prosperity. our solidarity, in the new context of globalisation, must therefore guide the european union's action in the world, but it must also transcend all community policies horizontally. it will be a key priority for the commission to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals, with particular emphasis on the eradication of poverty and hunger, by acting both in the least developed countries and in the pockets of the most disadvantaged population that we find in somewhat more advanced countries. the fight against aids and other diseases linked to poverty and underdevelopment, such as malaria and tuberculosis, must also be our priorities, as must the promotion of women in the countries with which we cooperate to achieve their development and the dialogue between civilizations, launched by the president of the spanish government. in all this the commission will have a great responsibility in promoting and coordinating its action with that of the member states of the union, with a view to achieving complementarity and coherence, particularly in our presence and influence in the united nations development agencies. for all this, it will be essential to maintain and even increase the effort to finance our development and humanitarian policies, keeping to the commitments and timetable we made in barcelona and monterrey and not being satisfied with that, but setting ourselves ever more ambitious goals.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to each and every one of you with the greatest attention. i am grateful for your contributions which show a wide variety of perspectives in this parliament. i also look forward with great interest to the outcome of your vote next thursday. the resolution that is adopted will certainly be very important for the common strategic vision we want for the european union. i think i could draw three preliminary conclusions at this stage. i note that the vast majority of the speakers first of all agree with the need to set priorities that correspond to the expectations of the citizens and think that it is important for the european union and its institutions to respond to what are the first concerns of the europeans. secondly, the vast majority of speakers identified three key areas for action: the area we can call lisbon, the lisbon strategy (economic reform with a social and environmental dimension), the areas linked to security and justice and europe's role in the world. thirdly, i have seen that there is also a broad consensus on the need for a strong cohesion policy, a genuine policy of solidarity in europe. i hope in particular that this point has been heard well by the governments of the member states. i think we can then conclude that there is a consensus on the need for growth and jobs in europe. without growth, without job creation, without more dynamism in our economy, we will not be able to maintain the high levels of social protection and environmental requirements which we consider to be part of what is commonly called the european model. the point is not, and never has been, the destruction of the european model. what is really at stake is the need to adapt and modernise this european model, to take account of some of the new challenges that are emerging today in europe and in the world. our ageing population, the effects of globalisation, all of this is forcing europe to adapt and move in this more competitive context. so i would like to say to you that it does not seem to me to be impossible to reconcile concerns for economic efficiency with concerns for social justice. these objectives - greater competitiveness with sustainable development and social concern - cannot in any way be incompatible. we have to work on their compatibility. these are goals that define us as a priority. i think, therefore, that we must work towards maximum consensus, but a dynamic consensus, a consensus which does not result from the overriding of opposing views because also, we must admit, there are some priorities here which are contradictory in parliament. we must therefore define the maximum common denominator for a dynamic consensus. i think one consensus that emerged clearly was that we need to strengthen our solidarity at a time when we have an enlarged europe. we have a europe on the road to reunification. this enlargement is an enlargement which has only just begun. we have signed the treaties and we have ten new member states among us, but we must do everything we can to ensure that in due course we no longer talk about old and new member states, but that we are truly one union and that is why we need an active cohesion policy. that is why i insist on this value system, and solidarity is certainly a value that can bring us together. that is why i say to you that today, when i see so many times in europe that the question of european identity is being discussed, i must stress that it is based on respect for different national, regional and local identities. european diversity is what really defines our identity, and if we want to define identity, we must define it in terms of the values enshrined in the european constitution and the charter of fundamental rights, namely respect for the dignity of the human person, human rights, justice, the rule of law and the principles of freedom and equality. these are the values that define our identity. respect for the principle of non-discrimination and tolerance towards all those who enter our borders. it is therefore on the basis of these values that we can promote the idea of europe in the world. i have already said in my opening remarks that it is on the basis of these values that we can best defend our interests. we are defending our interests with a more ambitious neighbourhood policy, a neighbourhood policy towards the east or the mediterranean that promotes stability and peace, as we have been doing, for example, in ukraine. i would like to stress - and this has not always been said - that the signals given by the european union in this crisis in ukraine have been very positive. without any struggle for prominence, we had the presidency of the council, the european council, the european commission and some member states involved in the search for a peaceful and democratic solution for ukraine. that is very positive for our europe. but also with a generous development policy. i have already said that europe cannot be selfish. a policy which is also the translation into the external sphere of what we are doing internally, after we have overcome so many historical differences through cooperation between member states which, in the past, have often been at war with each other. that is why i believe we have a duty to defend effective multilateralism, working on a level playing field and with respect for our key partners, seeking to revitalise the transatlantic alliance, uniting all our partners around values such as freedom, peace and democracy. this is how europe moves forward, enriching its heritage, building and updating dynamic consensus, seeking to value in the world what makes its difference. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by assuring you that the commission will seek to take parliament's positions into account in order to integrate them into what we want to be a strategic vision, not of this or that institution, but a strategic vision for all the european institutions and for the european union as a whole over the next five years.
representative of the association of journalists of belarus. the speech was delivered in russian. this is a translation. mr president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very emotional moment for me, because this is an extremely important, significant moment for my colleagues and i. the fact that we are receiving this prize as an organisation is a sign of solidarity and support for the entire belarusian democratic movement and support for the political forces that will finally ensure that in future there will be a link between belarus and the european union. the fact that this prize was initially put forward for two belarusian organisations – the second organisation was the youth organisation zubr – is probably a sign that belarus is the focus of international attention and that my country, which one of my colleagues has described as a chess piece which has fallen off the chess board, will once again become an independent entity in european politics and will one day take a worthy place among the other nations around the european table. the prize is such an important signal for us because we understand our problems, but they are not just a matter of upholding our own professional principles. it is also about defending the rights of all our citizens to receive objective, uncensored information. it is extremely important that our problems are understood by you and by european politicians. unfortunately, the belarusian authorities have managed to create a closed society built on isolation and disdain for democratic values. they protect their stability and survival by means of total control over the flow of information. the electronic media are almost totally monopolised by the authorities. the situation is worse because the work of these monopolised media is directed at discrediting any political adversaries, and the monopolised media try to reinforce stereotypes and myths. one such widespread myth in belarus is that nobody in europe is watching us, nobody expects us to join them and europe is hostile and aggressive towards us, the only guarantee of stability in our country is the head of state, and so on and so forth. despite our constitutional provisions, there is only one obligatory ideology that prevails in belarus now. in belarus a process has now been completed – the creation of a new state structure which is known as the ideological 'vertical'. there is total intolerance of criticism and we are not allowed to object or express our views. my colleagues know that we are subject to use of the criminal code against us if we criticise the president. two years ago, paval mazheika, a young journalist, was given a prison sentence under the criminal code. during political campaigns there is even more pressure on the non-state press; the referendum and the recent parliamentary elections are a case in point. on the eve of the referendum my colleague, elena ravbetskaya, the editor of the newspaper birzha informatsii published an article in which she said that calling the referendum was 'a challenge to society' and that to carry it out required a total lack of conscience and total neglect of public opinion. my colleague was also tried and fined as a result. her newspaper has also been punished and has been closed down for three months as a result of that article. again, two weeks ago, a very well-known person, garry pahaniayla, vice-president of the belarus helsinki committee, was also sentenced for slander against the state. the reason for this was a cassette taped by a swedish television journalist, which was confiscated from him at the border. mr pahaniayla had given an interview and mentioned the names of those suspected of involvement in the disappearance of belarusian opposition politicians. that was sufficient for them to bring him to trial and he may well be imprisoned for five years as a result. we are very concerned that, despite the conclusions reached in the report on the disappearances of belarusian politicians and journalists by christos pourgurides, a council of europe special rapporteur, and despite the international community's close attention to this subject, it seems that the belarusian authorities are still not interested in a full in-depth investigation of these disappearances or in publishing such an investigation. we still do not know what happened to dmitry zavadsky, who disappeared four years ago. he is a journalist and a member of our organisation and the authorities have never told us what happened to him. his wife, svetlana zavadskaya, is on our delegation. the issue of the disappeared is still in the newspapers. three years ago, during the presidential election campaign, we were punished for mentioning this. there was direct censorship. at the beginning of this year, in the last campaign for parliamentary elections and the referendum, we saw for the first time the summary closure of newspapers at the behest of the ministry of information. there were 19 cases of suspension of the activities of independent media outlets. our colleague, andrey shantarovich, actually went on hunger strike as a result of his paper being shut down. after the hunger strike he was charged with carrying out an unauthorised protest. this was absurd. the information about his hunger strike had been published all around the city and, as a result, he was fined for the hunger strike. suspending the activities of newspapers is aimed firstly at hitting the newspapers economically. economic discrimination has become one of the ways of restricting the activities of the independent press. my colleagues in the press are coming up against major obstacles in the distribution of their newspapers. the distribution of alternative, accurate information to citizens is one of the major problems facing our society. if a publication criticises the authorities, this automatically leads to problems with the printing houses. according to the ministry of information, there are hundreds of independent printing presses, but already five independent publications can no longer be printed in our country; they have to be printed in smolensk in russia because they cannot use printing presses on belarusian territory. i can say quite categorically that the journalists – my colleagues from the independent press – remain true to the principles of their profession. the independent press, which still appears in belarus, is virtually the only institution which exercises any scrutiny over the state and it is the only source of free information to citizens. it would not be possible for us to survive without the collective support of international and european organisations. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to article 19; to the international federation of journalists; reporters without borders; the international league for human rights; the danish organisations; the helsinki committee from sweden and norway; the centre of extreme journalism, as it is called – a russian organisation; and the glasnost defence foundation. all these are partner organisations that are helping us, and our strength lies in this partnership and cooperation. it is very important for us that european society and the european institutions should not weaken their position with regard to the principles of freedom of speech and human rights. if there were to be any weakening of those positions, then the repressive machine within belarus would start to go into overdrive and we would feel even more pressure against us. recently, at international level, many politicians from eastern european countries have expressed their concerns about the situation in belarus and are prepared to work towards formulating a strategy towards belarus at european level. i would like to express our support for that and the certainty that a common european strategy towards belarus will emerge and will very much help our situation. we can only combat a totalitarian regime by creating an open information society; a society that would encourage debate; a forum – which is a place for people to receive accurate information. we have a comprehensive programme which we feel will help to unlock the situation in our country. we are prepared to discuss that with you. i will just mention a few of the priorities. we need support for what is legal and what is still working in belarus. basically, what i am referring to is the independent press and the non-governmental organisations that are still operating in our country. what is also very important for us is the effect of the strengthened presence of the european union in belarus – something that we would encourage. perhaps there is some way of establishing a european union special representative for belarus. we feel it is very important that our people should receive a message from the european union. its value would be that our return to europe depends on us, the belarusian people. we understand that today, belarus's visiting card unfortunately implies the lukashenko regime. in fact there are ten million people in our country and at least half of those associate the future of our country with a return to europe. i should like to take this opportunity to urge the members of the european parliament – especially the members of the delegation to belarus – to support our proposals with regard to staging hearings on the media situation in belarus. such hearings might lead to recommendations on bringing our legislation into line with european standards and would help us to demonopolise the mass media. once again, i thank you for this award. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
ladies and gentlemen, the formal sitting is closed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the annual budgetary procedure is a perfect example of what interinstitutional cooperation should be. i have been a member of the committee on budgets for ten years and i have never believed that the interinstitutional confrontation was the right way to resolve budgetary priorities. i think time has proved those of us who prefer this route of agreement right. the best conclusion to be drawn from this draft 2005 budget will be that the three institutions are moderately satisfied with the final result. it would be absurd to present this agreement as a victory of one institution over another, because i believe that the three institutions are europe. it's been a very difficult year budgetarily. we started with a reduction in the ceilings for categories 3, 4 and 5, which has made it very difficult to meet the priorities of this parliament. the member states have applied budgetary restraint, as a consequence of the stability pact, and this must continue in the future. we have had european elections: new members, a new chairman of the committee on budgets, who has done very well and i congratulate him on that; a new european commission and a new commissioner, who has also done very well and i congratulate her on that, as well as former commissioner schreyer. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one. we are defending these priorities because we are a political parliament and we have promised our citizens a europe with economic growth, with job creation, with better information on the present and future of the union, with better control of migration flows and with greater security against crime and terrorism. having contributed to the creation of a genuine community response to terrorism is the best possible tribute from this parliament to the nearly 200 europeans who were killed in madrid on 11 march. thank you all for your support. it was fundamental to our strategy that funding for european agencies should not be done unilaterally, at the expense of other priorities of parliament. if we want more agencies, we have to bring in new resources. that was our position and i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we as a parliament have fulfilled almost 100% of the strategy announced. we have managed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 185 million, and this is a new resource, higher than the ceiling of the financial perspective. and with these new resources we have financed 40 million of the decentralised agencies, which means that for the first time the council recognises the need to provide new resources to meet the new commitments. we have also used €100 million of the flexibility to finance the reconstruction of iraq, leaving sufficient budgetary room to finance latin america, asia, mediterranean policy, the fight against disease or poverty or the democracy and human rights initiative, among others. we are still concerned about the question of payments, even though we have a statement from the three institutions on the commitment to present an amending budget in 2005 if necessary. the rigorous and austere approach we all - the three institutions - are one thing, but the indiscriminate saving of payment appropriations, which could jeopardise the implementation of the 2005 budget, is another. as a parliament we shall be particularly vigilant next year. budgetary savings must never be made at the expense of the needs of the union. the council has cut payments in agriculture by one billion euros, which is unusual from a budgetary point of view and we await further explanations from the council. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we thank the dutch presidency for the pragmatism in the negotiations, which we expected, and for its great willingness to reach a consensus with parliament, which was a surprise. in any case, thank you, mr minister, for your role; thank you, commissioner, for your mediation. i hope to continue a loyal collaboration with you in 2005. thanks to coordinators, members of parliament, members of the budgetary secretariat and my own personal assistant. it has been a pleasure to work with all of you on the draft budgets for 2005, which i hope will be put to a vote without too much trouble next thursday.
the rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i believe that parliament's rules of procedure actually provide that after the rapporteurs of the committee responsible for the subject-matter, the rapporteurs for the opinions of the committees concerned are the ones who usually speak. that said, mr president, and thanking you for your courtesy, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur-general for the budget, mr garriga polledo, on the excellent work he has done and also on the way he has conducted the negotiations with the council and the commission. in the area of heading 4 we have had the traditional problems which are presented in this chapter, this year with the 200 million euro from iraq, as the president-in-office of the council has pointed out. we were able to find a satisfactory solution, but in any case the solution proposed by the commission would have been better for us because it would have saved us cuts in heading 4 of eur 15 million. i think that the reflection made by mr böge is absolutely relevant, namely that we cannot be making new commitments every year to the detriment of the traditional priorities of the european union's external action. we must rationalize the use of the flexibility instrument, which has rules which, for the sake of the credibility of our european union project, must necessarily be respected; surely, in the context of the revision of the next financial perspective, we can find a compromise for the solution of this question. mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on development, mr wijkman, for his excellent cooperation and readiness to find solutions that are compatible with the priorities of his committee and the committee on foreign affairs. i would like to take this opportunity to wish the commissioner luck in her responsibilities and to ask her to facilitate our work by not making commitments which are not backed by the budget, because i believe that in this way and along these lines we can work more effectively together towards the objective which we all want to achieve.
mr president, as rapporteur for the report by the committee on agriculture, i regret the arbitrary cut in the expenditure on aid under the common agricultural policy for 2005 decided by the council of ministers. the cut of no less than one billion euro compared with the european commission's preliminary draft budget is an unprecedented decision, which also takes place in a key context of the debate on the future financial perspectives of the european union. i would like to denounce the lightness with which the council of ministers has taken this decision because it puts at risk the financing of agricultural aid for next year, which is the result of a formal commitment by the member states to the farmers of the european union. the council's decision leaves the management of aid under the common agricultural policy in a precarious situation, which will force the commission itself to apply a spending discipline which could lead it to commit more than an injustice. there is already talk of the possibility of introducing the amending budget at a later stage to patch up the gaps in the 2005 agricultural budget, although at the moment we do not yet know where these necessary resources will come from. it is clear that the countries which are in favour of reducing contributions to the community budget have won the first battle, because the council of ministers has unanimously given its approval to this cut. my country is also included in that unanimity. no one has dared to challenge this decision, which, moreover, does not take account of the opinion of this house. the european parliament restored the european commission's preliminary draft budget at first reading, an initiative which has been completely ignored by the council of ministers, the only body with decisionmaking power on compulsory expenditure. the cut in agricultural expenditure for 2005 is merely a foretaste of what could happen from 2007 onwards, when the european commission will have to present a report to assess whether or not it is necessary to introduce cuts in the unit amounts of direct payments received by european farmers. unfortunately, the voice of the european parliament has not been heard on this occasion. i would therefore like to draw the attention of this house to the fact that we must try to prevent this situation from recurring next year.
council. mr president, let me start by thanking members of parliament for their interesting remarks. my first remark is in response to what mrs trüpel and mr wurtz said. it is absolutely clear that i am speaking here not on behalf of the net contributors, the 'one per cent group', or the government of the netherlands, but on behalf of the council. the council was unanimously in favour of budgetary discipline. it was also unanimously in favour of only a slight increase in payment appropriations, taking into account the needs of an enlarged union. this brings me to concerns expressed by mr ferber, mr wurtz and mr maat about the level of payment appropriations not being enough for all the needs in 2005. the council's second reading is based on the principle of budgetary discipline. the council was united in believing that the level of payment appropriations was of prime importance. this is why the council showed an example by reducing compulsory expenditure in the field of agriculture. in our global agreement, the payment appropriations are eur 1 billion higher than the council's estimate of what is necessary to fulfil the obligations in 2005. according to the commission, which has to implement the budget, the agreed maximum amount is sufficient. equally important is the fact that the council will take up its responsibility if it turns out that payment appropriations are insufficient. the council has proved that this is not a hollow phrase: it provided additional payments for structural measures this year, as you know. we have committed ourselves to doing this in just one reading for any additional funding needed, as commissioner grybauskaitė mentioned. it was interesting to hear mr ferber's question on the results in conciliation with regard to the additional funds for 2005. he forgot to mention the eur 10 billion that we got back unspent in 2003. in conclusion, i agree with commissioner grybauskaitė that they were tough negotiations. i would like to thank her, the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on budgets for their constructive role in the negotiations. the result is what counts, and it is a good compromise. i very much agree with mr garriga polledo, who said it is not a win-lose situation, it is a win-win situation: there is room for both budgetary discipline and political priorities. at the end of the day it is a win-win situation for european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the prodi commission has left us with two communications: one on the general framework of the 2007-2015 budget and the other on the legal bases for the policies to be financed. the council of ministers has already started work in an ad hoc committee, as its representative mr nicolaï has informed us, and we in parliament have set up a temporary committee, which i have the honour of chairing, which has already produced a whole series of documents and in which our rapporteur, mr böge, is doing a very remarkable job of giving coherence to parliament's position. we are all aware of the importance of this task, which must serve to set political priorities and define the budgetary means that the union will have for the period 2007-13. everyone knows - but i must remind you - that without parliament's agreement there will be no financial prospects. without parliament's agreement, it will not be possible to reach an interinstitutional agreement which is not in the treaty. parliament wants to reach an agreement within the time limit set by the timetable, but it wants a good agreement and to achieve that it is necessary that certain issues should be clear from now on. firstly, to find out whether the present commission officially endorses the proposals of the outgoing commission. it is true that you, madam commissioner, have already told us, at a meeting of the temporary committee on political challenges and budgetary means, that the commission chaired by mr barroso directly takes over the proposals of the outgoing commission. but shortly afterwards, leaks and comments appeared in the media, attributing to the commission the intention, or at least the acceptance, of falling short of the proposals drawn up by the prodi commission. it is time, solemnly, here in the house, madam commissioner, in the absence of the president of the commission, that you made it clear to us what, in your view, is the level of resources that europe needs to live up to its ambitions. it would also be good if you could explain to us what revenue structures you consider most appropriate for the union to meet its present and future needs. secondly, it would also be good if we explored what would happen if certain member states were to prevent an agreement from being reached within the appropriate time. would the commission then be prepared to provide for the transitional arrangements necessary to ensure the continuity of the multiannual programmes in the absence of a framework agreement on the financial perspective? as you know, parliament has already expressed its preference as to the duration of these financial perspectives. we think that five years is preferable because it is more suited to the length of parliament's term of office and the commission's term of office. madam commissioner, mr president, by setting up a temporary committee on political challenges and budgetary means and by instructing its president to assume the chairmanship of this committee ex officio, which is not usual, parliament has wanted to send a clear signal of the interest and political commitment that parliament has to such a delicate process and so essential to the future of europe. we know that we have very important challenges ahead of us. how will we finance the expansion we have just completed? how can we deal with the enlargements that are already on the horizon and which will undoubtedly take place in the framework of the future financial perspective? how can we ensure that europe's growing role in the world is backed by sufficient economic resources? how can we make the policies through which we want europe to become what we always say when we talk about lisbon, namely the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world, a reality? all that has to be in the budget, because what is not in the budget is not in life, they say in the ministries of finance. it may be a bit of an exaggeration, but we know that in order to get some things in life, they have to go through budgets first. madam commissioner, mr president, the barroso commission has been confirmed by a very broad vote of confidence in this parliament. now is the time to show that you are not only mediators between parliament and the council, but that you are capable of strong political leadership. the financial perspective is a great opportunity to demonstrate this. (applause) i would like to thank
the president of the european commission made statements last week - and a colleague has reminded us of this today - in which he said that we cannot do more for europe with less money. you have today confirmed, madam commissioner, that the present commission maintains the proposal of the previous commission. i would add - for those who are fed up with proclaiming their europeanism - that less money means renationalising cohesion policy, and that is less europe. however, it is likely that the commission will make proposals for amendments in the near future to take account of the development of the negotiations. and i am convinced that the commission's proposals will be based on the principle of balance. i would therefore ask the european commission to review the aspects of its proposal which could lead to unfair results, madam commissioner, because they are unbalanced. because i think that's kind of what's happening at this point in the negotiations. and in order to contribute to this debate - whether in favour or against - i would ask the european commission to make public in this house the data it has on the impact on the 15 former member states of the costs of enlargement - which are, of course, necessary and indispensable - because to try to meet the demand for convergence of our new partners at the cost of destroying solidarity with the countries and regions of the former is profoundly anti-european and harmful to our shared future. i would like to conclude by expressing my support for the european commission, provided that it maintains cohesion policy as an essential pillar of european integration.
commission. the commission is well aware of the problem of piracy, particularly in its most recent and exacerbated form via the internet. i fully share the honourable member's view that this phenomenon is very damaging to the cultural industries and i am determined to do the utmost to get piracy levels as low as possible. the commission established a high-level group on digital rights management systems in march 2004, as part of the eeurope 2005 action plan. the high-level group's final report, presented on 8 july, reflects a consensus on basic principles and recommendations for future actions in three areas, one of which is the migration to legitimate services. encouraging consumers to use legitimate online services is fundamental to the creation of a thriving e-content market. the digital rights management systems will play an essential part, enabling new business models and preventing unauthorised use. recommendations included actively promoting awareness among consumers of legitimate alternative offerings and the need to create consumer confidence. regarding the situation outside the eu borders, also addressed by the honourable member, on 10 november 2004 the commission adopted a strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. this strategy sets the guidelines for the coming years towards a reduction of the level of intellectual property rights violations taking place beyond the eu borders. over and above technical cooperation and assistance, enforcement, regulatory implementation and bilateral and multilateral monitoring, the commission will foster awareness-raising of users and consumers in third countries and support the creation of public-private partnerships for enforcement. there are a number of programmes that also cover intellectual property rights and include awareness and education: for example, ecap, which is an intellectual property programme for the asean countries; the cotonou agreement for the african, caribbean and pacific countries, and the cards programme for the countries of the balkans.
thank you, commissioner, for that answer. the point is that all those measures are perfectly valid and, as you explained, deal with all the different aspects of protecting intellectual property. the specific problem i tried to raise is whether the commission will focus particularly on the area where member states have fewer instruments to deal with this, showing what is behind the protection of intellectual property and raising awareness among citizens. this is probably one of the few cases where criminal codes are violated by citizens without them knowing that they are doing so, and even thinking that it is something positive to do. so what do you intend to do to show, through general campaigns or whatever, that this is a very important matter and that the future of the audiovisual industry in europe is at stake?
commission madam president, i must also say on this point that the commission is the guardian of the treaties and has always done what is necessary to ensure that the rules of competition are respected, in particular the provisions on state aid in the field of broadcasting. on this point too, i would add that the 2001 communication on state aid to public service broadcasting clarifies how the relevant rules are to be applied. it makes clear, if still necessary, that the member states are responsible for financing and defining the mandate of this public service and that it is not for the commission to decide whether a programme should be broadcast as a service of general economic interest, or what the mandate should be. the commission only looks at whether the mandate definition and funding correspond to the reality on the ground. the commission therefore considers that it is important that the definition of the mandate is as clear and precise as possible and that, if a public service goes beyond its public mandate, it keeps separate accounts for, for example, commercial activities such as the sale of advertising space.
thank you, mrs. reding, for that answer. i am grateful to you for clarifying so precisely what we already know is laid down in community rules. the point of my question, commissioner, was to try to go a little further. we find, quite often, in all the countries that are part of the european union, that with that description of the rules of the game that we have given ourselves, and that you have so well clarified, there are often - let us say - perverse behaviours that transgress free competition. in your opinion, could we hope to achieve a new formulation, a new text, which would be able to harmonize criteria for public service more boldly?
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the tampere european council included among its objectives the creation of a common asylum system, parliament - and with it the people's party - has been fully committed to that objective and to the intention that the european union should give a response to those who legitimately come to our countries in search of a better future and life. today, with the horizon set at 2010, the date set in the hague programme for the completion of the second phase of the common asylum system, we find ourselves with the fortunate fact that the european union has already adopted important rules, but there is still a long way to go and that is our commitment. responsibility and rigour are the lines that should mark our action. it could not be otherwise when we talk about human beings who need our help. we are faced with an important report which, in my view, has the main merit of expressing itself clearly and decisively on several issues: firstly, parliament says a resounding 'no' to the proposal to set up reception camps in countries outside the union. the responsibility i spoke of a moment ago cannot be evaded, we cannot treat those who ask us for an answer to their hopelessness looking in another direction. keeping asylum seekers out of our borders is not the best way of demonstrating the validity of the values on which the european union is founded. secondly, we ask that the care of refugees be based on the principle of solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility. once again, it is shown that only joint and united action by the union can provide viable and lasting solutions. once again, the union has the opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to a truly common asylum system. finally, we are in favour of a system of resettlement at community level, but one which always succeeds in combining the will of the state with the will of the individual. for all these reasons - and although we have only one difficulty at the moment with the rapporteur - whose ability to bring positions closer together we greatly appreciate and appreciate - we can only vote in favour of this report if the problem which separates us, concerning the so-called safe third countries, is resolved.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 17 december 2004.
it is clear that mr schulz has intervened on the basis of rule 145 of the rules of procedure, which allows members to speak for three minutes on the basis of personal references made during the debate.
i understand that you are invoking article 145.
mr president, please behave yourself. if you wish to intervene, tell me which article you wish to invoke. if you say you want to intervene by invoking any article, you have no right to speak.
mr president, the next european council will not only decide on turkey or other issues, but also, as mr nicolaï mentioned, on the broad lines of the next financial perspective. i would like to stress once again that the financial perspective is an instrument of budgetary discipline and not an accounting instrument, an instrument which serves primarily to provide stability and to allow for reasonable medium-term programming of the union's policies. this instrument is so important that it is included as a law in the future constitution. yesterday the commission and today its president, mr barroso, confirmed that they fully endorsed the proposal of his predecessor. mr barroso said a moment ago that the commission's proposal is a starting point for the negotiations on the financial perspective. i would ask the commission to pursue this objective vigorously. the commission would then be able to make the starting point a point of arrival, and to put into practice the expression we have often used: we cannot do more for europe with less. the council and parliament must also assume their respective responsibilities and rise to the challenges that lie ahead. firstly, economic and social cohesion is not only a principle enshrined in the treaties and reinforced in the future constitution but a necessary condition for maintaining and protecting the european social model. secondly, in the enlargement we have just undertaken, we must spare no effort with the new citizens of the union. thirdly, five years ago we set ourselves very ambitious targets. we are halfway through and far from achieving by 2010 a competitive, knowledge-based, full employment society, as we set out to do in lisbon and gothenburg. fourthly, we are in the midst of the ratification of the european constitution and citizens sometimes show even more enthusiasm than their representatives. in the face of these challenges, we cannot be healers to our citizens. we are committing a grave irresponsibility if we try to get them to join this project we call the building of europe - and what it stands for - and at the same time reduce resources for the union. let us continue to build europe with the necessary means, with the means provided for in the treaty, used efficiently. this is, without doubt, the best guarantee of a future of peace, freedom and prosperity that we can offer to future generations. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i consider that turkey has to begin making the necessary steps to be acceptable to join the eu. for this purpose, certain conditions must without fail be met, one of the most important of which is the recognition of turkey's internal plurality. breaking the fundamental kemalist taboo is of vital importance. recognising the linguistic, cultural and political rights of kurdistan and other stateless national communities is crucial. logically we europeans want turkey to comply with all of that, but we wonder whether we should not start by recognising our own intrinsic plurality. what about all the pluri-national states that keep denying their own diversity? in the particular case of spain – a state that in theory acknowledges its own domestic plurality, but not always equality among all the different nations that make up that state – still more steps have to be taken. the minister for foreign affairs of the spanish government, mr miguel angel moratinos, presented a memorandum on 13 december on the official languages of the autonomous communities. such a proposal does not imply, as we wanted, full recognition status for catalan, basque and galician. it does not give any recognition to asturian or aragonese. this memorandum offers the chance of speaking in the european parliament in catalan, but always at 15 days' notice. how can i handle this if i do not know until the day before if i am to be given the chance to speak? when your member states' governments sincerely acknowledge their plurality, that will be the most powerful tool in working towards a more democratic turkey, and in asking for a fundamental change to the way in which it is applying to join the european union.
in accordance with the agenda, we shall now proceed to the vote. report (a6-0063/2004) by mr camiel eurlings, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2004 periodic report and recommendation of the european commission on turkey's progress towards accession for a point of order, i call mr watson. what rule of the rules of procedure are you referring to, mr president?
i would ask you to comply with the rules and to indicate the article of the rules of procedure you are referring to. (applause) i would like to thank
mr cohn-bendit, you can ask the members to calm down, but i must remind you that you are using the floor for a point of order. so, just stick to it. (applause) i would like to thank
it is becoming clear that the point of order concerns the application of rule 162 on the procedure for secret ballot, as requested.
mr. corbett, let's play by the rules. i acknowledge your knowledge of the subject, but i didn't ask for your advice. i take your opinion to heart and will take it into consideration. ladies and gentlemen, please raise real points of order. otherwise, this debate could go on forever.
you've made a proposal to order our work. the presidency takes note of it, but our work is regulated by the rules of procedure and we find there sufficient guidance on how to proceed.
ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a debate about whether those who have signed have done well by signing or should stop signing. i am granting the floor for the sake of order only and i ask you to stick to it. opinions on whether it is right or wrong to sign or not to sign, whether we should vote one way or another, will be very interesting but have no place at this procedural moment. therefore, if a point of order is not a point of order, the president shall withdraw the use of the floor from the speaker.
it is clear that we are no longer dealing with questions of order but with the explanation of each individual's attitude to the subject in question and i therefore do not consider it necessary or appropriate to continue to grant the floor on grounds of order. however, we have to organise our work and we have to do so, of course, in accordance with the rules of procedure, which sometimes lend themselves to interpretations that need to be clarified, as in this case. the presidency has received three requests for a secret vote under rule 162 (2) of the rules of procedure, which reads - i am speaking in spanish and it will obviously have to be translated - 'the vote may also be held in secret if requested by at least one fifth of the members of parliament. this petition must be submitted before the vote begins. 'on the application of this provision in this case, after having heard those who have spoken on points of order and after, of course, having sought the opinion and advice of the legal services of the house and the general secretariat, which is my duty, i can say the following: firstly, that the competent services confirm to me that these petitions are endorsed by a sufficient number of members and that they have indeed been submitted in good time. secondly, as some of you have said, there is a question of interpretation as to whether we are obliged to vote by secret ballot, since article 162 (2), which has been invoked so many times here this morning, says that 'the vote may be secret' and does not say 'it shall be secret'. there is therefore a margin of interpretation as to what the regulation says. the presidency, knowing that this would be a subject for debate, has analysed the precedents and the case law of the court of justice before coming to this part-session and, irrespective of my personal opinion that i deserve to do so in one way or another, it is my duty to try to interpret the rules of procedure in the most lawful way and, in this connection, i must remind the house that there is a precedent according to which president cox understood already, at the meeting of 12 june 2002, that the term 'may be secret' implied the automaticity of the proposal and that if there were a sufficient number of members who requested it, his request should be granted. moreover, the court of first instance of the european communities has issued a judgment in october 2001 where it also interpreted the term 'may' as a mandatory condition in reference to an article of the regulation similar to the one we are now dealing with. in accordance with these precedents and regardless - i repeat - of the views that anyone may have on the opportunity to do so in one way or another, the presidency considers that, having submitted a request in due time and form, we should proceed to a secret vote ... (applause)... without prejudice to submitting this matter, for future occasions, to the consideration of parliament's committee responsible for regulatory matters. we will probably have to clarify in the future whether the interpretation that the presidency is making is the correct one or not, but at this stage of the procedure the presidency has to take the responsibility of deciding, without being able to refer to the advice that the relevant committees might give it, and i believe in good conscience, after having listened to all the members and the legal services, that the correct interpretation of the rules is to proceed with the secret ballot that we have been asked to hold and that is what we are going to do. as regards the manner in which the vote will be taken, i would inform the honourable members that i have decided to use the electronic procedure in accordance with rule 161 (1) and that there will therefore be no need to appoint a college of voters. it'll be secret, but electronic. that said, we'll start the voting. on amendment no 71: the commission has
mr president, our oral amendment no 28 seeks to protect better and more effectively the rights we seek to protect, and we want to do so with realism, not with utopian proposals. in the interests of that realism, which is based on experience, what we are asking for, mr president, is that the expression 'in the applicant's own language' be replaced by 'in a language which is understandable to the applicant'.
mr president, in order not to tire you out, i shall repeat the arguments i have used in defence of oral amendment no 28.
we have finished the explanations of vote.
this court is adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 1.55 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
council. madam president, it is a great pleasure to be able to inform you formally that on 13 december 2004 the general affairs council closed the negotiations with bulgaria. we will now start the last, very important phase before entering the eu. the remaining two years should be used to prepare thoroughly for membership. the eu congratulates bulgaria on this positive result, which has taken much effort and energy. it is a new step towards a truly reunited europe, based on mutually accepted principles of democracy and the rule of law. the negotiations with bulgaria closed at the technical level in june 2004. this reflects the progress that the bulgarian government has made in recent years, which resulted in strong confidence on the part of all those involved and the ability to assume all membership obligations by january 2007. still, as the committee on foreign affairs also states clearly in its motion for an ep resolution on bulgaria's progress towards accession, we should closely monitor the progress which still has to be made by bulgaria. the commitments made in the justice and home affairs chapter might need an amendment of the constitution, which is a long and difficult process. other important areas, as the committee on foreign affairs states, are the quality of border management, the fight against corruption, and the prevention of abuse of powers by state authorities against persons entering or transiting bulgaria. the new penal code still has to be approved. administrative capacity in a number of areas, including the agencies involved with the use of pre-accession funds, should improve. both in bulgaria and in romania, improvements in the standard of living should be a priority. the economic growth that bulgaria and romania have seen in recent years has had a positive effect on purchasing power, but the effects at grass-roots level, especially for the elderly, have remained limited. there are at least two more years to go before accession. an historic step will be made on 17 december when the negotiations regarding the fifth enlargement have come to an end. monitoring of the last part of the fifth enlargement will continue until 2007, in order to welcome the two new, long-awaited members then ready to join the european union. as mrs kuneva said in october, she would like to publish the monitoring report on a big wall in sofia in order to keep the process going. i think bulgaria has made good progress, which gives us confidence for the numerous tasks still remaining. the council looks forward to the finalisation of the accession treaty with a view to its signature in spring 2005, after the treaty has been submitted to the european parliament.
commission. madam president, we have come a long way since bulgaria applied for eu membership in 1995 and opened its negotiations in 2000. yesterday the eu finalised the accession negotiations with bulgaria in the accession conference, with a view to accession on 1 january 2007 and with the signature of the accession treaty in sight in the spring of next year. i would like to thank the european parliament for its constant and balanced support for bulgaria's ambition to accede to the european union and i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr van orden, for the sound and even-handed report he has produced. in the past few years bulgaria has made steady progress in all areas in its preparation for accession and for meeting the copenhagen criteria. important and necessary decisions have been taken in this respect. four units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant are being closed on agreed dates for final decommissioning, showing bulgaria's determination to respect commitments. substantial support from the union is being provided as assistance to these efforts. overall, bulgaria has consolidated and deepened the stability of its institutions. continuation on its current reform path should enable the country to cope with competitive pressures and market forces within the european union. we will, however, need to keep a close watch on some areas. our intention now is to intensify our monitoring of the commitments that have been made and of continuing preparations in general, in order to ensure that progress continues after the closure of negotiations and that bulgaria will be effectively ready for membership in 2007. in this regard, solid efforts remain necessary concerning the reform of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime and the fight against corruption. bulgaria has made progress in gradually building up its administrative capacity but further efforts remain necessary in this regard in a number of areas. as from november 2005 the commission will issue yearly comprehensive monitoring reports for the council and parliament following the same methodology as was applied to the new member states that joined the union in may 2004. these reports will focus particularly on public administration, the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as well as the track record in economic reforms. it is also necessary to take account of a longer period between completion of the negotiations and the effective date of accession than in previous waves of accession. a specific safeguard was agreed, which allows the commission to recommend to the council to decide by unanimity, at any time, to postpone the date of accession by one year to january 2008 if there is clear evidence that bulgaria is manifestly unprepared. let me conclude by saying that i share the conclusions of the report of your rapporteur, mr van orden, which are, by and large, in line with the 2004 regular report. the commission will continue to keep the european parliament informed of bulgaria’s progress towards accession. bulgaria is on track for accession on 1 january 2007. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the fifth round of eu enlargement will be concluded. thus the black sea will become a new coastline for an enlarged and unified europe.
as rapporteur for the committee on budgets, i would first like to point out that the pre-accession financial aid granted to bulgaria in the period 2000-2004 amounted to approximately eur 178 million per year from the phare, sapard and ispa programmes. the committee on budgets also supports additional funding from the phare programme of eur 200 million for the period 2000-06 to close the kozloduy nuclear power station. it also welcomes the establishment of a new financing framework for bulgaria in spring 2004 and welcomes the commission's approach of limiting the aid package to a three-year period from bulgaria's accession in 2007 in order to adapt it to future policy reforms that may be needed as a result of the new financial perspective. the committee on budgets stresses once again that financial assistance will depend on the new financial perspective, but also on the adjustment of the annual budget, depending on the financial perspective.
madam president, it is true that bulgaria's capacity to comply with the acquis communautaire has increased considerably and is increasing. however, the committee on industry, research and energy would like to stress that in the areas of research and development, energy, industrial policy and telecommunications policy, additional efforts are needed if we want bulgaria's accession to be a historic success, as the date of accession is already very close. in addition, in order to properly assess the progress achieved and, consequently, to propose the changes that still need to be made, it would be necessary to take into account not only the report of the european commission but also the assessments of various international bodies and other independent research centres, whose opinion can be of great help in analysing and assessing bulgaria's capacity in these areas, with a view to its integration into the european union. in any event, our thoughts at this stage, in relation to each of the sectors within the competence of our committee, are as follows: as regards energy policy, bulgaria - as has already been said - is at present dependent on nuclear energy to meet its domestic needs, but the reality is that its nuclear power stations are technically obsolete and that the decommissioning of part of them has entailed high costs. the modernisation of units 5 and 6 of the kozloduy plant is now being considered, as has also been said, and additional funds are needed for this, since the european union's contributions are clearly insufficient. funds from international donors are needed and yet we do not see the government prioritizing this issue as it should. in the telecommunications sector, the independence of the regulatory authority should be guaranteed, which should have the power to resolve commercial disputes and be able to guarantee the principle of universality, in accordance with the acquis communautaire. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of national accounts for the financial year 2000 and has also been involved in the preparation of the annual accounts of the european investment bank. this, madam president, is the substance of the amendment which our committee is tabled to the report we are debating.
council. mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to inform you here formally that on 14 december 2004 the general affairs council also closed the negotiations with romania. as i said when referring to bulgaria, it is a new step towards a really reunited europe based on mutually accepted principles of democracy and the rule of law. i will elaborate briefly on the process of closing the last challenging chapters with romania and focus on the monitoring system developed to ensure a proper start for romania within the european union. the two remaining chapters, which have been regarded as the most difficult ones - competition policy, and justice and home affairs - were technically closed by the general affairs council on 14 december 2004. i believe we have been able to find appropriate solutions for all the issues raised in those final weeks through close and constructive cooperation between the commission and the council. however, closing these two chapters means that the real work continues for the romanians. over the next two years romania will have to make real and sustained efforts in order to be truly ready for membership. good intentions are not enough: these must be matched by progress on the ground, in particular in the implementation of commitments. the eu will of course continue to support the preparations at all levels: the commission will enhance the monitoring of progress commitments undertaken in all areas of the acquis. we learned from representatives of both governments that monitoring systems helped them very much in continuing, and even intensifying, the reforms needed. on competition policy, this chapter is at the core of the internal market and european economic integration. the proper enforcement of eu competition rules is a precondition for creating a reliable business environment and requires appropriate administrative capacity. this is a long-term process. it is for those reasons that competition discipline is also a key aspect of the europe agreement. other key aspects are legislative alignment and the institutional and administrative structures in romania. what needs to be done to bring all legislation, including secondary legislation, into line with the requirements in the areas of antitrust and state aid, in particular in relation to fiscal aid? the romanian competition council should be given the powers, resources and the well-trained staff it needs to fulfil its role. this council should prohibit any measures which would be in contradiction with the state aid acquis and the europe agreement. let me turn to the steel sector, which is a sensitive sector across the eu. romania has asked for a prolongation of the so-called 'grace period' under the europe agreement for restructuring the steel industry. again, we only agreed to this now it is clear that romania will abide by all the commitments and all the conditions set out in the eu's position. these commitments include drawing up a national restructuring programme as well as an individual business plan, capacity reduction and dismantling of the installations. the european union expects romania to respect all its commitments and take all the necessary measures within the deadlines laid down in the eu's position. in this context, i should recall the safeguards we have at our disposal. in october 2005 the commission will present to the council a written report assessing romania's progress in the area of competition policy. any serious shortcomings observed in this report regarding romania's obligations under the europe agreement and/or the fulfilment of the commitments can form the basis for a recommendation by the commission to invoke safeguards, in particular the one postponing romania's accession by one year. here the council can decide by a qualified majority. on this understanding, i have come to the conclusion that this chapter does not require further negotiations. let me say that it is now in romania's hands to ensure that it meets all its commitments in this chapter, allowing romania's smooth integration into the european union. turning to justice and home affairs, this is a chapter which is both extensive and complex. it is at the heart of our objective of maintaining and developing the european union as an area of freedom, security and justice. it has a direct bearing on the lives of every eu citizen, and is therefore a key part of the acquis which must be respected. negotiations on this chapter have been long and detailed. romania has made a considerable number of firm commitments on all areas of the justice and home affairs acquis. there are several areas to which particular attention should be paid, such as implementation of the schengen action plan; ensuring a high level of control and surveillance at the external borders of the union; implementing the reform of the judiciary; stepping up the fight against corruption to ensure that corruption cases are dealt with in a swift and transparent manner; making considerable progress in filling the large number of vacancies in the police forces; as well as developing and implementing a coherent multiannual anti-crime strategy. these issues have also been addressed in mr moscovici's report on romania. the union will closely monitor romania's implementation of all its commitments related to justice and home affairs, right up to the moment of accession in order to meet eu standards. this includes adhering to the planned legislative schedule and taking further measures to develop the institutional and administrative capacity of all romanian law enforcement authorities and of the judiciary. we believe that this should be possible if the necessary political effort, as well as the required financial and human resources, are deployed to this end. if, however, any serious shortcomings are observed in the fulfilment by romania of its commitments and in particular any of the specific commitments listed in the eu position, this can form the basis for invoking the safeguard clause postponing romania's accession by one year. here again, the council can decide by qualified majority. the european union will continue to monitor closely romania's preparations and achievements, including the effective implementation of the commitments undertaken in all areas of the acquis and in particular the areas of justice and home affairs, competition and the environment. to this end, the commission will continue to submit annual reports on romania's progress towards accession, together with recommendations if appropriate. i welcome the statement in the report by mr moscovici that the european parliament will monitor the developments in romania as well and encourage the new romanian government to fulfil all the commitments made during the negotiations. it is quite clear that the report adopted by the european parliament in march 2004 has fulfilled its purpose as a wake-up call to the romanian government. that is how the romanian government has perceived it; and it has convinced it to intensify the accession strategy and policies. i was delighted to learn that parliament, in its latest report about romania, could subscribe to the recommendations of the regular report of the commission. since then - and i paraphrase the wording of the commission - we all have made every effort to meet the european council objectives to bring the negotiations with bulgaria and romania to a successful conclusion in 2004, on the basis of its own merits, with a view to signing the accession treaty as early as possible in 2005, and we all expect bulgaria and romania to fulfil the economic and acquis criteria and to be ready for membership on 1 january 2007.
commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mr moscovici for presenting a balanced and thorough report. the commission has always welcomed the constructive commitment of the european parliament to romania's accession to the european union. i would also like to thank the council for its productive cooperation.
the committee on budgets would point out that the pre-accession financial assistance granted to romania in 2004 amounted to eur 825 million, coming from the national phare programme and the sapard and ispa instruments. we also want to stress that the total volume of this aid is approximately 1.4 per cent of the country's gdp. as in the case of bulgaria, the committee on budgets welcomes the establishment in spring 2004 of a new financing framework for the accession of romania. it also welcomed the commission's intention, as in the case of bulgaria, to limit the aid package to a three-year period in order to adapt it to future policy needs arising from the new financial perspectives to be adopted. all financial assistance will be conditional on these new financial perspectives, but from 2009 onwards. unlike the report on bulgaria, the committee on budgets wishes to stress the need for sustained efforts to strengthen administrative capacity in romania in the key areas of customs, vat and gross national income statistics. this implies having the appropriate capacity to collect and control vat and customs duties and to calculate gross national income with credibility, accuracy and completeness, in accordance with esa 95 rules.
on behalf of the group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr moscovici, on the excellent work he has done with this report on romania. i would also like to thank you for your great availability and your spirit of commitment. mr president, romania has made very significant progress in its integration into the european union over the last two years. i certainly welcome these advances. a decisive step was the conclusion of the negotiations at the accession conference held yesterday, tuesday. this conclusion of the negotiations is due to be confirmed at the european council this week, but it is clear that the work is not finished. romania has important tasks to accomplish before the accession, scheduled for 2007, becomes effective. it is not just the procedures necessary for the final ratification of the treaty; it must also intensify its efforts in a number of key areas. it must continue with reforms in the public administration, it must deepen the improvement and independence of the judiciary - an area in which it has already adopted an important legislative package a few months ago - and it must strengthen the fight against corruption, which is a serious problem that continues to affect the country. and efforts are also needed to preserve the environment. the report to be submitted to the plenary tomorrow sets out in detail a number of areas in which the romanian authorities must continue to make efforts. the main content of my position and of the report is as follows: on the one hand, an open, positive position on romania's entry into the european union within the prescribed time limits. on the other hand, it is a demanding position in terms of the efforts romania has to make, for which it needs determination and perseverance. in my view, this is the double message that the new romanian authorities, who emerged from the elections held in recent days, must clearly receive. with this report, the european parliament says yes to romania's integration, but will monitor the country's compliance with all the commitments it has made. this parliament will be very attentive to the efforts which the romanian authorities must make. we also have the information that the commission must send us regularly on this subject, as the commissioner has pointed out. finally, in the road that romania has to travel until accession, it will not lack our vigilant supervision, but certainly it will not lack our help and encouragement either.
council. this issue, i repeat, is really the exclusive competence of the commission, so i cannot answer the question.
council. the council recalls that council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999, laying down general provisions on the structural funds, sets out the community initiatives as one of the instruments of regional policy within the framework of the structural funds. in the current programming period of 2000-2006 there are four community initiatives. one of them is interreg. this covers cross-border transnational and interregional cooperation intended to encourage a harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of the whole of the community area. interreg iii has three sections dealing respectively with cross-border cooperation: the promotion of integrated regional development between bordering regions; cross-national cooperation, contributing to an integrated and harmonious territory across the european union; and interregional cooperation to improve the policies and techniques of interregional economic development. therefore, the pyrenees/mediterranean euroregion could benefit from the support of this community initiative, subject to the procedures established by the commission. the council also recalls that the commission has proposed the creation of an instrument called 'european groupings of cross-border cooperation'. this would be given a legal personality to overcome the obstacles hindering cross-border cooperation. this proposal is currently being examined by the preparatory bodies within the council and also has to be considered by the european parliament within the framework of the codecision procedure.
i would like to remind you that there are more than a hundred euroregions in europe and that they are particularly interested in this community initiative, which is now becoming an objective, through the promotion of interreg. i would like to ask the president-in-office of the council: do you not think that euroregions such as the pyrenees-mediterranean are essential both to help remove the obstacles to economic and social development posed by borders and to give substance to the principle of territorial cohesion, which is already enshrined in the european constitution, signed by the 25 representatives of the governments of the member states, and which therefore deserves all possible support from the union?
mr president, we have sometimes received complaints from european regions, because it is the governments of the member states which distribute the cohesion fund and even the structural funds in their regional component, and sometimes those regions whose political colour is the same as that of the state government are favoured more. mr barnier, then commissioner for regional policy, announced to us an instrument to which the regions could have direct access without having to go through the governments of the member states. i do not know whether this initiative of european crossborder cooperation groups, which the council has on its table and which parliament will also have, is the instrument to which mr barnier referred. would the council agree that the regions could have direct access to funding, without going through the state governments?
council. only two eu member states have already reached the lisbon goal of 3% of gdp spent on r&d – finland and sweden. they have achieved this by running budgetary surpluses. it is clearly possible to fund research while respecting the pact. that is an important point. second, even germany and france with their well-known budgetary problems have already achieved rates of 2.5% and 2.2% respectively. again, it appears that the pact is not the factor limiting investment in research. it would appear to be a matter of national priorities.
first of all, i should like to inform you that following the call for applications for the appointment of the european ombudsman, which expired on 30 september this year, four applications were received, two of which were accepted, namely those of mr nikiforos diamandouros and mr giuseppe fortunato. the candidates appeared before the committee responsible on 29 november and the election will take place on 11 january next year, in accordance with the procedure laid down in our rules of procedure.
the next item is the report by mr mcmillan-scott on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 976/1999 laying down the conditions for the implementation of community actions, other than development cooperation, which, within the framework of community cooperation policy, contribute to the general objective of developing and consolidating democracy and the rule of law and respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in third countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, welcome to your first speech in a debate on human rights. you're always welcome to come. mr mcmillan-scott has gone through this regulation, which is a regulation which reveals very clearly all the virtues - the many virtues - that we have and also many of our problems. it is a modest regulation in terms of budgetary resources, very ambitious in terms of objectives; we all agree that it needs to be adopted, and yet we have spent the last year and a half - perhaps much longer - dealing with procedural and bureaucratic problems which have nothing to do with the substance of the matter, which is to adopt it in time and in a manner which will enable the commission to have an instrument at its disposal which will enable it to maintain the regulation. we've followed a very complex process. at the end of the last parliamentary term we adopted a regulation 'similar to this' concerning third countries by means of the codecision procedure. and now we are approaching the entry into force of the necessary extension, which will begin on 1 january and end at the end of 2006. the commission and the council are well aware that this is a regulation which is very much appreciated by parliament. i would remind you that the budget line which allows its financing - as mr mcmillan-scott has just mentioned under the heading 'european initiative for democracy and human rights' - was created at our initiative, at the initiative of this parliament - many of us who were present at that time are still here - and the commission reminds us in its explanatory statement of its full validity, its validity, its good use, supported by the impact assessment, which highlights the positive results on the capacity building of ngos specialising in human rights and on civil society organisations. the rapporteur has thought it appropriate to limit himself to a report showing his support for the commission's proposal, as amended by the council with the nuances and explanations it has deemed appropriate to give, but i would remind you that the regulation, with the same content and identical purpose as that for which i myself was rapporteur, was adopted at first reading in a codecision procedure and that in the committee on development we were absolutely flexible and put forward some reasonable and simple questions to make it possible to adopt it at the end of the last legislature. what we have now reiterated in the amendments which have not finally been voted on are very simple things which we had difficulty in making clear at the time. parliament wants to be informed and to know what the results and progress of the implementation of this project are and wants these programmes to finance, as the commissioner has pointed out, processes of peace missions and processes of electoral observation missions. it also called on the commission to present an analysis of the progress and results of the implementation of the project annually or at such other intervals as it deemed appropriate. i suspect that the agreement reached at the end of the last legislature in codecision, with the committee on development responsible for the fund, has been unilaterally amended. i hope that this will now be corrected, with the implementation of this regulation, which will enable the commission to have the necessary funds for the implementation of an effective instrument, such as this one, in favour of democracy and human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr papadimoulis on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 1999/847/ec as regards the extension of the community action programme in the field of civil protection.
commission. mr president, i have listened very carefully to what has been said. first i wish to thank you all – the rapporteur and all the members of parliament who have spoken – for your support for this programme for civil protection, which we all feel is very important. i also thank you for your cooperation. in answer to the question about how will this go forward, i can tell you that there will be no problem, there will be a prolongation. coreper discussed the commission proposal on 15 december, and it will go as an 'a' point – that is, one where there are no problems – to the environment council before christmas. let me also say that, in the meantime, the commission intends to present a proposal for a new legal instrument with a view to its entry into force in january 2007. that means that this new proposal will be based on the provisions of the new constitutional treaty for greater possibilities to develop european cooperation in the field of civil protection; and thus we will be working particularly in the field of prevention that you all mentioned, but also in the field of response. the next two years will be a transitional period to prepare in the best possible way the venue for the new treaty, which will include many of the items and elements mentioned here. you all spoke about prevention and nearly all of you mentioned the importance of contributions of volunteers and also of social partnership and the question of financing, which depends on the financial regulations. again, we are ready to make the preparations, and in the next few months the commission will come up with a proposal. i hope that my colleague commissioner dimas will then be able to discuss this very closely with you.
thank you very much, madam commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
mr president, the welfare of animals during transport has been a recurring theme in this parliament for some years now, even more so than the situation of millions of children who are starving in our europe or who live in poor conditions, also in our europe. if the humanitarian organizations defending these people had shown the same strength as the organizations defending animals, something could probably have been done for these european children who die every day. parliament - i am concentrating more on the subject - has delivered two opinions in three years on the welfare of livestock during transport. in my view, we should not insist any further on this matter, which was fortunately settled last november following the agreement reached by the council of ministers of the european union. although the compromise proposal put forward by the irish presidency was - to my mind - more satisfactory because it limited the duration of transport to a reasonable period, both from the point of view of the welfare of livestock and from the point of view of the free movement of goods within the european union - we remember that it is 9 hours of travel plus 12 hours of rest and another 9 hours of travel - the agreement which has now been reached, under the dutch presidency, does not change the existing rules as regards the duration of journeys at all, leaving a decision on this crucial point of the debate for some six years. the postponement, which - let us remember - is the result of the differences which still exist between the member states, has been put on the table. however, i would like to clarify something here that i am sure many people listening to these debates do not take into account and that i think should be made very clear to the public: the current regulations already limit to a maximum of 8 hours the transport of animals carried out in vehicles which do not comply with the standards of livestock welfare required by the regulations, standards which have also been reinforced by the recent agreement reached by the council of ministers.
mr president, i too would like to welcome very positively the political agreement which will be formally approved next week by the agriculture council, because i think it has one great virtue: it leaves aside - until 2011 - the most controversial issues, which were precisely the ones that caused the negotiations to fail last april - the maximum length of journeys and the loading density of vehicles. in the debate we had with mr maat last term, and which some of us here remember, it became clear that the proposals - as mrs mcguinness has just said - on these two issues, distance and density, lacked a sound scientific basis and, moreover, seriously penalized the large and peripheral states. this whole economic background was disguised as animal welfare, as if we members from the big countries and the peripheral countries were not concerned about animal welfare. in my view, commissioner, the political agreement substantially improves the shortcomings identified in the current legislation. that is the most positive aspect: it improves the control systems, introduces technological elements that facilitate control, establishes a clear and transparent registration system and improves the systems of cooperation between member states and, in addition, establishes the obligation to implement training systems which will also improve the transport of animals. i particularly welcome the wording of article 32, because it clearly states what elements future revisions of this regulation should be based on. for these reasons, i can only congratulate the council on unblocking this issue and hope for a successful implementation of the new text.
mr president, first of all i should like to express my surprise that a rapporteur, mr ribeiro, has devoted himself to defending amendments which have been rejected by the majority of the committee on fisheries. that said, i have to say that our group will support the commission's proposal, the ribeiro report, as adopted in the committee on fisheries, and will vote against the amendments tabled. and i want to explain why. we do not want to include bottom-set gillnets because, as everyone knows, these are static nets which, by their very configuration, do not erode the seabed. the biological disaster which this amendment is intended to evoke could in any case be linked to the loss of these gears and their subsequent ghost fishing activity. as the commissioner has said, this effect has not been scientifically quantified, either by zone or by species. that is why it seems to me frivolous and a bad precedent to ban or attempt to ban these arts in these areas, because, on the same grounds, we would have to ban them in all community waters and then we would see whether all those who defend it in this case would also defend it in the rest. as regards the second amendment, which, based on criteria of marine biology and geology, seeks to replace the protected areas proposed by the commission with the political criterion of 200 miles - a criterion which, in the field of fisheries management, no longer exists in community legislation, whether we like it or not - i would like to stress once again that corals are not distributed over a radius coinciding with the 200 miles of the canary islands, madeira and the azores. it is scientifically assumed that corals are normally distributed around a thousand-meter diameter line. the commission has therefore, in accordance with the precautionary principle, extended the bathing water line to 1 500 metres, lines which obviously do not follow political and administrative divisions. but, moreover, in this case, the zones which the european commission has marked go beyond, in some cases, 200 miles, even reaching international waters. for all these reasons, mr president, our group will not support the amendments tabled.
mr president, i - who welcomed the ribeiro report and the rapporteur's work at the time because, like all of us, i think it is important to protect deep-sea coral reefs - have to say - in the same vein as my colleague mrs fraga has just done - that i hope that i will not see some day on mr ribeiro's table flags - like the ones i see over there - because, to some extent, some of the statements i have heard from the rapporteur's mouth have really surprised me. i would like to say, of course, that we do not agree with amendment no 7 - neither the first part nor the second part. we agree with the commission's proposal, but we cannot agree to the addition of ' gillnets' without further scientific criteria to the commission's proposal, which talks about 'bottom trawls' or 'similar trawls'. we believe that adding ' gillnets' without further details can cause serious damage to certain fleets and, moreover, set a dangerous precedent. we also disagree with the second part, because it seeks to replace the maritime coordinates established by the commission, based on scientific criteria, by the terms 'waters under the jurisdiction' of the member states.
commission. mr president, i welcome the generally positive comments on the proposal, and will respond very briefly to some of the criticisms made. on the possible damage by fishing other than trawls: according to the ices 2003 report, trawls are the main cause of damage to deep-water coral reefs. there is little evidence of passive gear damaging coral reefs, although ices mentions some of these effects. the commission is ready to amend its proposal if there is new scientific evidence or if the member states agree on such an amendment. with regard to the point concerning the extension of the protective zone to the whole eez, i would underline that the proposal delimited an area that includes most of the submarine mountains that have been kept in good condition. extending the zone of prohibition would add insignificant protection and would therefore run c ounter to the principle of proportionality. having said that, i would also refer to the question of the exclusive competence of the commission with regard to marine resources, which is found in the constitution and to which reference has been made. this is a principle which was already established by european court of justice case law, and all the constitution does is to codify it. however, the commission does not deny the rights of spain and portugal over their european economic zone. it is just that there is no need to mention these rights of jurisdiction since the area of prohibition is delimited by topography and by geographical features. on the point made by mrs attwooll concerning the role of the regional advisory councils, there would be a legal problem and in order to accept that amendment the regulation on racs would itself have to be amended. on another point made by mrs attwooll, the commission has recently tabled a proposal on conditions for deep-water fishing, which will lend protection to these important resources.
the vote will take place today. report (a6-0069/2004) by mr reimer böge on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the use of the flexibility instrument in accordance with paragraph 24 of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 (com (2004) 0402 - c6-0213/2004 - 2004/2087 (aci)) parliament adopted the motion for a resolution and the proposal for a decision (in accordance with article 6 of annex iv to the ep's rules of procedure) proposal for a resolution (b6-0204/2004/rev.) by mr wurtz and others on the rejection of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2005 (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) draft general budget for 2005, as amended by the councilbefore the vote:
the rapporteur. i would like to make a few technical corrections, which i was asked to make by the committee on budgets, before the vote begins. i am referring to the budget line 15 03 01 02 leonardo da vinci programme, where the amount of commitments should be amended to eur 205 366 880. i would also like to add to the budget line 19 09 03 aid to the uprooted population in latin american countries the corresponding amount from the reserve, i.e. eur 54 500 less than the amount presented in document 12. i hope that parliament will be able to give its consent to these amendments.
if there is no objection, the technical amendments proposed by mr garriga polledo are accepted. (parliament accepted the rapporteur's oral amendments)
the budget is therefore adopted. we shall ask the council whether it has any comments to make or whether it agrees with the approval given by parliament.
council. mr president, you have proceeded to your second reading on the 2005 budget – the first full budgetary year of the european union of 25 member states and of the implementation of the new staff regulations. i am pleased to note that the agreement reached between our two institutions during the conciliation meeting on 25 november 2004 has now been included in the 2005 budget. it is very important that for the first year of the new term of this parliament the two arms of the budgetary authority were able to reach global agreement last november. it is a positive signal for the future, both for interinstitutional cooperation and for a good budget for the european union. that is why i would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandowski, and the two rapporteurs, mr garriga polledo and mrs jensen. i would also like to thank the commissioner, mrs grybauskaitė, whose role i have appreciated very much. the council can accept the maximum rate of increase resulting from your second reading. (applause)
thank you very much, mr. minister. (the president of parliament, together with the president of the council, signed the flexibility instrument and the budget after inviting the president-in-office of the council, mr jan peter balkenende, the commission representative, mrs dalia grybauskaite, the president of the committee on budgets, mr janusz lewandowski, and the rapporteurs, mr salvador garriga polledo and mrs anne elisabet jensen, to accompany him.) (applause)
the rapporteur. i would like to make a very brief oral amendment to recital a, which is to introduce the corresponding amounts. i read in english:'a. whereas the budget for the financial year 2005, as approved by parliament, amounts to eur 116 554 135 698 in commitments, representing an increase of 6,1% over the 2004 budget, and eur 106 300 000 000 in payments, representing an increase of 4,4% over the 2004 budget; whereas the level of payments represents 1,004% of the estimated gni for 2005, compared with the 1,08% set by the financial perspective, representing a difference of eur 7 935 million;'
the court is in session. the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. is there any comment?
we note your remarks, mr posselt. if there are no further comments, the minutes will be adopted. (the minutes were approved)
commission. mr president, we in the commission understand and take a very serious view of the preparations for the elections in march 2005. the commission reiterates its attachment to the holding of free and fair elections in that country. the recent introduction by the government of zimbabwe of a set of electoral reforms which are currently under discussion in the zimbabwean parliament is an important step. it will have to be assessed whether this will lead to a genuine incorporation into domestic electoral legislation of the southern african development community (sadc) principles and guidelines governing democratic elections, as unanimously agreed in the sadc summit in mauritius last august. the commission remains deeply concerned about the current political and human rights situation and the respect for fundamental freedoms which at this stage would hardly allow for free and fair elections. a specific matter of concern is the approval by the zimbabwean parliament, on 9 december, of the ngo bill, which heavily restricts ngos' room for action and activities. the commission fully supports the proposed eu démarches in harare and other sadc capitals as well as the issuing of an eu declaration expressing concerns regarding the implications of the bill. the commission is also worried about the risk of politicisation of the distribution of food aid, mainly in the context of the upcoming parliamentary elections. in the event of clear verification of partisan use, the commission, together with its partners, including the wfp, may have to envisage suspending food aid operations. after the march elections the commission will reassess the situation. any lifting or easing of eu measures against zimbabwe cannot be justified at this stage. the commission is aware of the deliberate attempts by the zimbabwean authorities to undermine the visa ban's credibility by multiplying their travels to europe and has always advocated a strict application of the exemptions provided for in the council common position of 19 february 2004. the commission will continue to explore all avenues to influence the government of zimbabwe and to pursue an enhanced political dialogue with neighbouring sadc countries, notably south africa. continued international pressure on zimbabwe and especially regional peer pressure is necessary.
the vote will take place this afternoon, after the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the situation in the eastern democratic republic of the congothe president. the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the situation in the eastern democratic republic of the congo.
commission. mr president, the european commission shares the concerns of parliament about the increasing tensions between rwanda and the democratic republic of congo and their consequences for the human rights situation in the region. indeed, we are very concerned by the threats of rwanda to use force against the territorial integrity of the congo in order to neutralise the ex-far and interahamwe troops, and by the multiple reports of military operations by the rwandan army in the eastern congo. the humanitarian crisis that these actions generate is an additional reason for our concern. it is essential to the stability of the region that rwanda withdraws without delay any forces it may have in the territory of the drc, and refrain from any action or statement that contravenes international law. the european commission is deeply convinced that until the problem of the presence of ex-far elements in the eastern drc is definitively solved, it will undermine peace and security in the region, be a source of instability and a threat to civilian populations. in this context, the european commission is convinced that the local government should make use of existing mechanisms, including the joint verification mechanism and the tripartite commission, to find a peaceful solution. furthermore, the congo should implement without delay its plan, established with the support of the united nations organisation’s mission in the democratic republic of the congo (monuc), aimed at accelerating the disarmament and demobilisation of foreign armed groups. it should also speed up the integration and the training of its national army in order to effectively disarm the ex-far militias. indeed, the establishment of peace and security in the region through bringing together the countries is our priority. in this context, we see the resolution of the ex-far issue as essential and inescapable. the community is actively supporting the congolese authorities in the reconstruction of the country through development projects for an overall amount of eur 0.5 billion. the european union is and remains the largest humanitarian aid donor in congo and will continue its assistance.
thank you, chief. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. bhopal the president. - the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on bhopal.
mr president, twenty years after the toxic gas leak at a union carbide corporation fertilizer plant in bhopal, the harmful effects and environmental pollution continue to affect the lives of thousands of people today. on the night of 2 to 3 december 1984, more than 7 000 people died as a result of this gas leak, but the effects of the accident have since caused the death of another 15 000 people and continue to cause chronic illnesses to more than 100 000 people. neither the indian government, nor union carbide or dow chemical, the company that currently owns the fertilizer plant, have taken responsibility for the impact of the accident on the lives of thousands of people and the environment. as the resolution we are voting on today states, there is a need for an independent inquiry into the current situation in bhopal, which could be carried out under the auspices of the united nations commission on human rights, with the involvement of experts, to examine, during visits to india, the consequences of the activities of union carbide and the bhopal disaster for the pollution of groundwater and the environment, and therefore for the human rights of the affected areas and communities. but the sad case of bhopal also shows how, in a context of economic globalisation, it is urgent to demand that companies meet the same responsibilities as states, that they be subject to international treaties and conventions and that their impact be assessed, both in respect for human rights and in situations of armed conflict and tension. the amendments tabled by the green group are in this direction. i would ask you to read them carefully so that you can assess whether you voted yes or no. in addition to echoing the proposal of the school of culture of peace at the autonomous university of barcelona, i would like to urge the house - and also the european union - to promote 3 december as an international day of corporate responsibility and human rights so that companies can commit themselves to the promotion and protection of human rights throughout the world. this commemorative date should serve as an opportunity for all international actors - states, international organisations and civil society, but especially businesses - to reflect on their shared responsibility for building a fairer and more sustainable world.
commission. mr president, the commission welcomes parliament's initiative to launch an urgent debate on this issue. it is an important opportunity for us to reflect on the way in which we can offer help to the victims and how to prevent that set of disasters from occurring in future. let me assure parliament that the commission has been ready to support india in dealing with this tragedy and will do so in the future. through our decentralised cooperation budget line, we have supported local non-governmental organisations in bhopal with rehabilitation and skills training for victims of the disaster, as well as giving support to women’s self-help groups. through our health and family welfare programme, we have supported the bhopal district hospital, as well as patient welfare societies of district hospitals and community centres in the region. special assistance was given to the municipal corporation of bhopal for the preparation of an urban reproductive and child health plan. in addition, the commission has provided a grant of eur 10 million for the funding of the government of india's national disaster risk management programme. at the recent eu-india summit held in the hague, india reconfirmed its interest in pursuing an environment dialogue with the european union and proposed the organisation of an eu-india environment forum. this forum will be a first step in tackling the enormous environmental problems that threaten both india and the european union. let me finish by expressing our deepest sympathy for all the victims and our firm hope that such a catastrophe will never occur again.
thank you, chief. we shall now vote on these motions for resolutions. the debate is closed.
mr president, i would just like to point out that there is an error in the voting list which has been distributed to the socialist group and that, as regards the bhopal amendments, we vote against the first and in favour of the other three.
we've noted your circumstances. (parliament adopted the joint resolution)
thank you very much mr rübig for your observation.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. i wish you all a merry christmas and a prosperous 2005. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
