(et) and mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today it is my great privilege to share with you my thoughts in the context of the european union's enlargement. despite the festive atmosphere of recent days, those thoughts are concerned more with problems than ovations. first of all, coming from a country that has only just acceded, i do not feel morally entitled to say where the future borders of the european union should lie, or when further enlargement should stop. at the same time, it would be equally morally unjustified to make insubstantial promises to our neighbors concerning their possible accession, in a situation where neither party is ready for it. the experience of relations with turkey over the past 40 years would be a poor model to use for the development of relations with ukraine today. secondly, my background in academic circles has given me a clear understanding of what is accomplishable and what is not. a prerequisite for the enlargement of the european union is an in-depth approach to integration. the constitutional treaty enables the involvement of ten new member states in collective processes without compromising the fundamental principles and decision making of that union. if the member states fail to ratify the constitutional treaty, we may have to accept that future enlargement may also come to a halt. thirdly, i believe that all rounds of enlargement must be based on certain objective criteria. once a round of enlargement has taken place, however, member states should be treated equally. the restrictions on the free movement of workers imposed by some member states is just as unwarranted as the imposition of stricter internal market regulations on new member states. if the european union accepts the splitting up of cyprus, why then should it agree to the raising of russian minority issues in estonia and latvia? that is just not logical. fourthly, i welcome the european union's neighbourhood policy, which is a guarantee for stability and democratisation beyond its borders. i believe that the setting up of the esdp mission in bosnia and herzegovina and the setting up of peace-keeping operations elsewhere in the world are signs of the european union's growing foreign policy agenda and of the attempts of member states to speak with a single voice in the international arena. at the same time, i do not comprehend how countries such as sudan, the democratic republic of congo, and haiti have achieved a higher placing in the list of priorities than our close neighbours moldova and georgia. yet this was the neighbourhood policy that was supposed to prepare the european union for further enlargements. as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there are a great number of problems to be solved. i sincerely hope that the enlarged european union will not prove to be a disappointment for anyone.
(et) and madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say a few words about the enlargement of the european union and about the relations with our new neighbours. this, the fifth enlargement of the european union is, historically speaking, certainly one of the greatest challenges faced by the whole of europe. since 1 may we can say that there is no longer any reason to speak of a divided europe, but of one united large european family, which must act according to common perceptions and rules. for this we also need the european union's constitutional treaty. hopefully the drafting of the treaty will already be completed in june, since only then can we continue as the world's most dynamic economic and political union. enlargement has also given the european union many new neighbours. estonia, having spent many long years in the soviet union against its will, as a member of the european union now has russia as its direct neighbour, followed by belarus, ukraine and moldova further to the south. ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for having been given the opportunity to spend a year as an observer in the group of the european liberal, democratic and reform party in the european parliament and in the committee on development and cooperation, one of whose priorities is relations with the european union's neighbouring countries, and i would like to continue working in this committee. as a liberal, i wish to continue to support the european union's commitment to promote the development of democracy and press freedom in ukraine, belarus, moldova, and particularly in russia. estonia is a good example to them of the transition to a european country. our experiences are necessary for the creation of a new and democratic europe. our investment in the development of our new neighbours is essential, since the existence of democratic neighbours is a complimentary security guarantee for the european union itself, and fruitful mutual cooperation is a foundation for the future. i therefore await with interest the new development strategy for the european union's neighbourhood policy due to be drafted shortly.
(et) and madam president, i would like to thank i believe that we must, even today, begin to deal actively with the issues that came to the fore on may 1st. for europe, new members mean new borders and new neighbours. among these new countries bordering on europe for the first time, we find again, after a break of 15 years, a totalitarian country, belarus, and also ukraine, where democratic and economic reforms have unfortunately stalled. next come moldova and the transcaucasian republics all of them are countries with latent conflicts but which have temporarily managed to halt their civil wars. russia, whose problems we already know, i shall pass over here, since russia has already been the european union's neighbour for nine years. however, as gary titley has remarked, she is now in our midst. these countries are all possible conduits of migration; and nobody monitors the people entering their territories. some of these countries are on the verge of ecological disaster. we can predict that the yawning economic, social, legal and political gulf between the european union and our new neighbours will continue to widen. the gap is already clearly visible, but in a few years it will have grown significantly. we know what this means, and, believe me, it will become a significantly more important issue than that of the transition period for the free movement of workers. some here have spoken of the historical and cultural borders of europe. i warn against it. eight years ago, in his book, samuel huntington drew the border of europe; this border almost exactly matches the border of today's enlarged european union a thought provoking circumstance. we must not allow such a theoretical geopolitical conception to become a material and political reality. if we do nothing, huntington's europe will, however, come true. we have a choice to make: either we direct significantly more political attention and financial resources to these countries, which is of course very expensive, or, we build a new effective, but un-european and inhumane wall, a great wall of europe between itself and its new neighbours. in this case, europe's eastern border will soon resemble the us-mexico border, together with all the similar problems. paradoxically this wall will be located in the same countries that 15 years ago suffered due to the wall on their western border. a secure europe must deal with the issues of its neighbours. it is up to us to decide whether we do so via segregation or assistance.
(et) and madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow europeans, a little over 20 years ago, the european parliament passed a declaration that condemned the occupation of the baltic states by the soviet union and demanded our freedom. today, we are at last all together in this room as free nations and free european citizens, to decide jointly the future of our continent. i am deeply moved that, in this historic session of the european parliament, the first plenary session since enlargement, i have the opportunity to speak to you in my mother tongue. enforced divisions are thus at an end; europe is one again. presumably it is this historical perspective that enables new member states to see the european union, not just as a common market, but as something more: a common home based on common values and perceptions. today there is no longer an old europe and a new europe; just one europe our common home. it is for this reason that here and today we must ask, not, what can europe do for us? but, what can we do for europe? this is even more important in the light of the fact that europe's economic and social situation cannot be considered to be rosy. we must face up to facts. europe's development has slowed significantly during the last decade. although the objectives of the lisbon strategy are in every way correct, we have to admit that, following its adoption, the gap in competitiveness between europe and the united states has widened rather than narrowed. with this in mind, some have mockingly alluded to the soviet leader nikita khrushchev's promise to overtake america in ten years, which ended in his country falling even further behind. i do not want the same fate to befall the lisbon strategy. to ensure this, the new european commission, together with the parliament, must act decisively to find the means to force the governments of the member states that have reacted coolly to the reforms to implement them. i very much hope that the enlargement of the european union will also add impetus to this process. yes, the gdp of the new member states is lower than that of the older ones. nevertheless, contrary to the view of the earlier speaker, i do not believe that we have joined the european union in order to live comfortably for the next century from the support coming from wealthier member states. such an attitude would be immoral and ruinous for both europe and ourselves. estonia cannot look only to financial gain in europe. our aim must be clear: to achieve as rapidly as possible in the case of my homeland, estonia, i believe that time to be at least 15 years a standard of living such that we no longer need assistance from wealthier european countries. in order to achieve that goal, we have to maintain our high growth rate and liberal economy and not take the route of tax harmonization, which would be disastrous for europe. i also hope that the accusations levelled at new member states will not be repeated, since only by growing rapidly and by developing tax competition throughout europe can we make the whole of europe more competitive.
(et) and mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this enlargement of the european union is made historic by the attempt to get countries at very different levels of economic development to work together smoothly and effectively. successful completion of that task requires the creation of a sustainable globalisation model that would stop the growth of tensions, disagreements and conflicts that has accompanied the dismantling of former boundaries. within the next five years, all of the european union institutions, including the parliament, will have to face historic economic policy challenges. first, a balanced solution must be found concerning the problem of harmonising competitive conditions for enterprises in countries at different levels of economic development. it is evident that countries with lower income levels will not be able to invest as much in social insurance, healthcare, environmental protection and other societal activities as the wealthier countries. lower social taxation, however, gives enterprises a competitive advantage in the short term, and this leads to discontentment among enterprises in countries with higher taxation levels. the movement of enterprises to regions with a lower tax burden in destabilised developed societies. finding a balance that takes the interests of all the parties equally into account will, even with an in-depth grasp of economic policy and fine political sense, require great efforts in the coming years on the part of the members of the european parliament. as a second challenge, i would highlight the integration of countries with different levels of development of public infrastructure with the conditions of the european economic and monetary union. the new members who have shrugged off the former planned economy now need to make enormous investments to modernise the infrastructure of education, science, health care, environmental protection, internal security and legal protection. the financing of these investments would be possible at the expense of raising the level of taxes without contravening the basic conditions of the stability and growth pact, but this would endanger the already low competitive ability of enterprises that are still in the build-up phase. infrastructure investments could be funded by loans, increasing the country's budget deficit and the national debt, but this would be at odds with the main conditions for the adoption of the single currency. this means that if the single currency membership conditions as well as the need for retaining the competitiveness of enterprises are both strictly observed, the necessary development investments cannot be made. this in turn would jeopardize the sustainability of development and would equate to living at the expense of the nation's future. strengthening the unity of the european union ... (the president cut off the speaker)
commission. - mr president, i would like to reply very briefly to mrs kinnock on the first point and i share her sentiment because i was in dakar last night, attending a meeting with the least developed countries, and we talked with them about enlargement. you are right, mrs kinnock, there is a certain anxiety in the developing countries about enlargement of the union. there are anxieties about many things in the developing countries, and this is one of their characteristics, but particularly about enlargement, and i think we have to explain to them that enlargement is good news for them, which we have tried to do with a number of them. this is good news because the enlarged union has more weight and is therefore potentially stronger; because the enlarged union is opening up markets to them with some 70 million new consumers, whereas, until now, these markets have been less open to them than ours; the eu's enlargement also means that their future prospects are improving, particularly in terms of trade. i think that's a good point. the idea persists, however, in many minds outside the union that the union cannot do and succeed in enlargement by doing something else at the same time. i think this is a mistake. we have shown this in the past. in short, we have a good case, at least in relation to the developing countries, especially the acp countries. so we have ample reason to reassure them. on the second point, mrs kinnock, i am sure that the commission as a whole takes note of this request and wish, which will be conveyed to whomsoever is entitled to it at the appropriate time.
i would like to respond to the concern expressed by mrs kinnock whether the commission is still providing sufficient resources to combat poverty in developing countries in the current situation. i can inform you that the budget for the fight against poverty under development policy, as proposed by the commission, will for the first time in the preliminary draft budget for 2005 exceed the magic threshold of one billion euros. i think that shows that this commission is very committed to the objective of fighting poverty.
(et) and permit us firstly to also congratulate the new commissioners, but i have a specific question for mr prodi. i have the impression that the standing of the european commission is not particularly high, either among the general public or within the structures of the european union itself, as a result of the instances where the wishes of member states have predominated over the commission's prescriptions, one example being adherence to the principles of the stability and growth pact. the commission's standing has not been helped by the fact that three commissioners have resigned prematurely to take up posts in their national governments. my question is: how would it be possible to improve the european commission's standing?
mr president, i would like to focus my remarks on the free movement of citizens in the european union. the area of freedom and justice must justify its name in the coming years, not just in documents but in reality. citizens of the new member states in particular cannot feel fully integrated into the european union until the frontiers have been effectively removed for all citizens. unfortunately, the documents presented do not sufficiently address the existing problems in the actual exercise of the freedoms of citizens of the european union, including the use of the so-called variable geometry scheme. i think that these distinctions that we have need to be addressed more clearly in the tampere ii programme of the council. we should avoid giving third-country nationals who are covered by special schemes and regulations a more favourable situation than the citizens of the new member states. the practical issue for the near future, and one which requires serious effort, is the rapid extension of the schengen system to new members. the political will must be focused to make this possible by 2007, not only in theory but also in practice. the council and the commission need to plan the financial means to set up the necessary visa information system and to provide experts to carry out missions to the new member states. this process also includes a determined policy on the part of the european union to complete the process of concluding border agreements between the new member states and their neighbours, which the new members have done all in their power to achieve. finally, i would like to thank commissioner vitorino for his very efficient and valuable work in the management of the internal affairs of the european union and for his significant contribution to the convention on the future of europe.
i would like to speak about the current state of the lisbon process. i remember the time when the dictator khrushchev announced that the soviet union would catch up with the united states in seven years. i also remember it failing. the european union has all the means to do so, but the lisbon report is a cause for concern. as wim kok said, the dream of catching up to the united states is put in the fridge. instead, the european union is working on how to prevent a further recession. i would like to thank, together with my colleague mr radwan, the dutch presidency for its clear and strong leadership. it gives hope. but to make up for lost time, we need to pay attention to one more aspect - the motivation of the process. it is this clear and strong motivation, combined with a focus on performance, that has been the engine of success for our competitors in the us and japan. secondly, the european union should pursue a systematic approach to research and development and innovation. the wim kok report stresses the need to make research and development a top priority. in this context, the emphasis should be on the practical side of research. so not less research, more development. thirdly, it is particularly important to design all the activities carried out in the light of the need for innovation as a whole and to motivate entrepreneurs accordingly. fourth, current research innovation funding schemes are unfortunately too centralised and do not facilitate the transposition of results into practical action. the biggest problems are that money is being funneled into the most evil, closed and inefficient systems. so our task today is not to rely on fancy plans but to show the political will to put those plans into practice. it's a responsibility to the citizens who elected us. thank you!
mr president, on friday, in an interview on russian television, mr sergei yastrzhembsky, vladimir putin's man in charge of relations with the european union, accused the new members of the european parliament and their member states of interfering in ukraine, adding that 20 years ago solidarnosc was a creation of the west and that now the poles were doing the same in kiev. leaving aside this repetition of soviet rhetoric about solidarnosc, he does have an important point, which i would like to make here again today. the new members feel acutely, both negatively and positively, the course of events in ukraine today. just as the founding members of the eu recall the experiences that led to the establishment of the union, so too we recall what was done to us and why for so many decades we could not join the union. we recall the sham elections in the three baltic countries in 1940, when for example, like mr putin's congratulatory call to mr yanukovich even before the announcement of preliminary results, latvia's sham election results were accidentally published the day before they took place. we recall only too well the rigged elections after the war in poland, hungary and czechoslovakia. we've seen this before and we know what comes of it. but we have seen the other side as well, how tens and hundreds of thousands of people come together peacefully to state their solidarity with democracy. we saw this with solidarnosc in gdansk and warsaw and with charter 77 in prague; we saw it in the streets of berlin and we saw it in the singing revolutions of the baltic countries. in other words we know what's going on, we've seen it before. the 75 million people who became eu citizens this march are experiencing 'déja vu'. our understanding of these events, our empirical knowledge, must not be dismissed by those who lack the knowledge or understanding of what this means. mr yastrzhembsky, but i fear also some in the west, would paint the new members' direct experience and knowledge as something that gets in the way of relations with russia or that threatens illusions about what is going on in ukraine. we recall those in the west who said we should be careful with solidarnosc, it might upset brezhnev. we recall western politicians who said the baltic countries should not seek independence lest it threaten mikhail gorbachev. i am not here to take sides in a political contest between candidates and parties in ukraine, but i do take a stand against manipulation of elections. we cannot say no to the ukrainians because we are afraid of losing investments or markets in russia. democrats always try to find the aristotelian golden mean, even in politics, but there is no middle ground between the truth and a lie, between democracy and its all too many opponents. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, i am encouraged by the clear conclusions drawn by both the council and mrs ferrero-waldner. i have been the rapporteur for ukraine on behalf of the council of europe. what is happening today is nothing new: the same rigging of elections, curbing of the press, depriving people of their rights took place then. it is a pity that continual reports about shortcomings in establishing the rule of law and transparent society have not been taken at their face value in the west. for many years hopes were cherished that in due time and with patience all problems would be overcome. the opposite has happened: policies of accommodation and attempts to keep post-communist rulers as good allies at the cost of turning a blind eye to gross violations of democratic rules have brought about a dramatic worsening of the situation. the eu also has to share responsibility for not reacting in time and for not clearly taking the side of genuinely democratic forces. instead, the ukrainian people have given us a lesson. now there is not a minute to lose. some still argue for declarations in support of democracy but say let us be prudent and not offend anybody, let us not aggravate the situation further by taking sides. it is right that we should not take the side of a particular candidate - that is the exclusive right of the ukrainian people. however, look around this chamber and you can see that we have taken sides - look at the orange colours. it is our duty. it is also our duty to adopt very soon the important resolution we have prepared.
mr president, i would like to ask the council some more specific questions on the financial perspective. i too assume that solidarity should be the guiding principle for the distribution of cohesion funds in the enlarged eu. i would therefore like to draw the council’s attention to two aspects of the commission proposal which i find need further consideration. firstly, does the council consider as adequate the method proposed by the commission for calculating the gni average for the 4% capping for the whole seven-year period of the financial perspective? at the same time, for the other aspect of the cohesion policy, provision is made for a mid-term review to adjust the regions’ eligibility according to their actual development. as it stands, on the one hand the commission proposals are flexible for the phasing-out and phasing-in regions, but on the other hand it leaves the countries and regions for which capping is proposed in a sort of straitjacket for the whole seven-year period. i propose that the mid-term review granting some flexibility and adjustment to the actual growth of gni should be considered for capping-designated countries as well. secondly, does the council consider feasible the commission’s legal proposal whereby value-added tax would no longer be eligible for local government projects? such a proposal would further limit the least-developed municipalities’ opportunities to benefit from the european projects as it weighs heavily on their scant resources. i draw your attention to the fact that under the present system they are exempt from vat.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. many people think that turkey deserves to be invited to join the european union. it's the only secular state in the islamic world and the only democracy that counts. it is the only place where women's rights can be discussed in a european sense, and turkey has also officially renounced its islamic heritage. turkey is also aware of europe's own commitment to invite it to negotiate, as 2009 marks the 50th anniversary of the request made by prime minister menderes. as a representative of the minority, i think there are still a number of problems that should be resolved before the european union starts negotiations with turkey. for example, turkey must recognise the government of the legal greek cypriot community. in fact, there is no other way, because the candidate countries are negotiating with all the member states of the european union and therefore also with cyprus, and separately. it is equally natural that turkey should withdraw its troops from every point on the territory of the european union. second, i think turkey should recognize the mass murder of armenians in 1915 as genocide, which was not planned by the religious-minded ottomans but by secular-minded young turks, many of whom later became atatürk's supporters. and third, why is turkey totally denying the fate of the world's largest stateless people, the kurds?
as a product of recent enlargement, i, as estonia's representative, welcome the conclusion of accession negotiations with bulgaria and romania yesterday and the readiness to open negotiations with croatia. it is important to consider each candidate individually according to his or her progress and not as a package. secondly, there is the important principle that any enlargement of the european union must be balanced by strengthening our internal dynamism and cohesion. as mr pinheiro said, 'turkey is a special case in terms of enlargement'. the opening of negotiations may be supported provided that all the copenhagen criteria are clearly fulfilled, as in the case of the last round of candidates. that situation has not arisen at present. the fundamental question for governments is that it is incomprehensible to start negotiations with a candidate whose forces occupy the territory of a member state of the european union and who does not even recognise the existence of that state. this position needs to be made unequivocally clear before negotiations can begin. this is a matter of principle and cannot be taken as a recommendation. otherwise, the current uncertainty about the criteria sets a precedent that such distortions may be repeated for the large candidate countries. it also threatens the future security of other small countries. i also invite the commission to consider the prospects for ukraine's future. because it is in ukraine that the question of the eastern borders of the european union is being decided today. yesterday, the ukrainian people's representative was here, ruslana, the winner of the eurovision song contest, who probably has more supporters than any ukrainian politician. his message was, "show me a room in this building where i can sign the ukrainian accession petition". today we cannot show it, but our business, who we support the democratic rebirth of ukraine, is to raise awareness of this message of the ukrainian citizens and to find this room for a closer future.
