(fi) mr president, commissioner, mr sterckx's report is an important statement on behalf of the marine environment. by acting effectively, we protect bathing waters, ensure clean fish food and improve marine ecology, especially in closed sea areas. the oil released from ships is very dangerous in many ways and therefore any offences involving oil must be dealt with with with a firm hand and those involved held accountable. the committee has produced a good result, which will be further clarified by mr sterckx's amendments. however, there is one point which i cannot support as such: the proposal for a joint coastguard goes a little too far. as the coast guard also has many other tasks, this issue needs to be considered in a broader context. mr poignant has done a good job with his own report. but there is one small detail: i too am in favour of the eu shipping label. on the other hand, the amendment on the introduction of the flag in connection with the national flag is problematic, as the rapporteur has already pointed out. such a requirement would require a debate on flag legislation in the member states. if this amendment is dropped, it will be possible to bring the whole thing to a swift conclusion.
(fi) mr president, when an accident occurs in a sea area, it has far-reaching and difficult-to-remedy consequences for the whole surrounding environment. the marine environment is also being damaged by practices that are inconsistent with legislation and environmental welfare, such as the dumping of sewage into the open sea. those who pollute the environment must be held accountable for their actions. the strengthening of the criminal law framework will hopefully act as a sufficient deterrent to those who transport dangerous goods in poorly maintained or unsuitable vessels or who otherwise damage the environment through their careless or negligent activities. for example, the baltic sea, which is a very sensitive sea surrounded by many countries and a shallow inland sea, is taking great risks that can prove devastating to the environment. oil is transported by single-hull vessels under difficult conditions by squeezing through winter ice. the daily monitoring and inspections must also be increased to tackle illegal emissions. i hope that, once the directives to improve maritime safety have been adopted at eu level, all parties responsible for maritime transport will carefully consider how transport can be carried out using the appropriate means and in the safest possible way for the environment. the carelessness and unnecessary risk-taking must be minimized. i am glad that eu legislation is being strengthened and harmonised in this area. i thank the commission and the rapporteurs for their work and i hope that the new, stricter legislation will be put into effect soon.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, commissioner, the commission has a good intention in proposing a directive to improve the safety of nuclear installations. but good intentions are not enough. the commission's proposal for a directive is inadequate and should not be accepted as such. the fact is, electricity is generated by nuclear power. when nuclear power is used, the safety of the equipment must be at the highest technical level possible. the improvement of the safety of existing nuclear installations must be a joint project of those who support nuclear power and those who oppose it. the commission proposes in its directive to transfer powers from the member states to itself. however, the directive does not define the principles on which it would exercise its additional powers. if the directive were adopted, the commission would have a virtual open mandate to take a position on the safety principles of nuclear installations. the representatives of many member states are understandably opposed to the directive for fear of arbitrary control. if a directive is adopted on the safety of nuclear installations, it must define precisely the powers conferred on the commission and the principles on which those powers are to be exercised. that is not the case with the commission's present proposal. the responsibility for the safety of a nuclear installation must always lie with the installation itself 'polluter pays'. institutions shall comply with national laws and regulations of national authorities. we must not try to shift responsibility from the institutions to the commission. the authorities shall take action to improve the safety of nuclear installations in cooperation with the international atomic energy agency. it has defined principles which represent the best of the world's collective experience in the safety and supervision of nuclear installations. we have to build on that. the commission does not have the resources to do so. in fact, it was unable to explain to parliament the human resources it would have at its disposal if it were given more responsibility for nuclear safety oversight. in that respect, the directive would weaken rather than improve safety. this conclusion has also been reached by the representatives of many member states. at their meetings, under the italian presidency, they have agreed to make fundamental changes to the commission's proposal, and our committee has in its report taken a sympathetic view of the council's position. in its directive, the commission proposed a reform of the management of decommissioning funds for nuclear power stations, so that their solvency is independent of the other assets of nuclear power stations. the demand was right. nuclear safety requires that sufficient resources are allocated to decommissioning installations during their operation. they must be managed in such a way as not to distort competition in the electricity market. the commission's proposal is justified in that regard. however, because of the opposition of the member states, the commission has not been able to produce a balanced proposal and it is therefore justified to leave the matter outside this directive and to call for a new directive of its own. the commission has implicitly and implicitly justified the need for a directive by the accession of new member states. the committee's findings show that the safety of nuclear installations in the member states which will join the eu in may is no worse than in the present member states, especially in view of the closure of the ignalina plant in lithuania. we have acted on this basis in the committee. if anyone can show that the safety of nuclear installations in the new member states is deteriorating compared to the current level in the existing member states, it should be significant new information. the compromise proposal of the committee can, in my view, be accepted as such. finally, i would point out to the honourable member that he clearly misinterpreted the committee's position on this matter. in its report, parliament supports the position of certain council member states more than the commission, and parliament is not in the process of adopting the commission's proposal as such.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for the excellent work they have done in preparing these reports. this has been a long and demanding exercise, one that has really tested my patience. the preparation of the safety standard, in particular, has been a game of cat and mouse with the commission and the council. fortunately, however, a common tone was struck between the institutions last autumn and parliament has been able to discuss the current version. the commission's proposals were based on a somewhat unusual premise. the timetable for the waste issue was a windfall, totally unrealistic. in terms of funding, member states should be able to decide on the form of the funds and reserves, provided that a certain amount of funds is made available where necessary. the safety standards directive was humorous in its original form in that it spoke no more about safety than it did about standards. in terms of definitions too, many concepts remained, and in some cases still remain, rather vague. for a long time it was unclear whether standards would be introduced, when they might be introduced, what they would be, who would make them, what they would be aimed at and so on and so forth. as i said, both rapporteurs have done a great job of making the reports more realistic and practical. as the italian presidency, it played a significant and visible role on the council's side and contributed to the package in a very positive way. i hope and believe that ireland will continue along the same constructive and cooperative lines as its italian predecessor. the added value of the proposed safety standards is still unclear. it goes without saying that the role of the national supervisory authorities should not be called into question. cooperation between the eu, the iaea and wenra needs to be further strengthened. the commission cannot now and will not be able to play any other role than that of coordinator in nuclear security cooperation, owing to the obvious lack of resources and know-how. so even in the form of a proposal, there is no complete package of directives, but in my view, a supporter of safe and environmentally friendly nuclear energy has no choice but to support both reports in their present form. i am in favour of high safety standards and voluntary cooperation between member states and authorities.
(fi) mr president, mr breyer likes to compare the loan scheme in question to a form of energy production which is a form of state aid distorting the market. sometimes it seems that the word "loan" has been forgotten in the analysis. the second theme has been the distortions of the market caused by the different aid schemes. how much renewable energy is subsidized? is it always about loans, where every cent is paid back with interest? there's been talk of other kinds of tools. the euratom loan scheme has served us western europeans for many, many years. in recent years, the benefits have been channelled mainly to the candidate countries. it is true that in the 1970s and 1980s nuclear power plants were built in western europe with these loans. however, the loans have not been used for a long time to build new capacity. the best example of this is the financing of a new unit to be built in a northern european country. private investors were interested in the construction of the new nuclear power plant, so that the 1 600 mw unit would have received financing for the construction of a 2 500 mw capacity. this is a rare indisputable proof that euratom loans are not needed to finance new capacity. there is nothing wrong with the fact that nuclear power stations in the candidate countries and other eastern european countries are receiving funding for the improvement of safety at their facilities. it is interesting to hear that mr breyer is encouraging the greens to campaign against nuclear safety. i am in favour of extending the euratom loan scheme. this is important for improving the safety of nuclear installations in third countries.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, the european council has stated three times at its summits that agriculture must in future be able to be carried on in areas with particular problems. agricultural enterprises are of considerable importance to these regions in order to keep the countryside alive and habitable. it also has its own cultural and environmental value. i think it is important that the criteria for the reform of rural policy should be those which are appropriate for the northern agricultural areas. in my report i propose that the commission should draw up clear definitions and criteria, taking account of the climate, the length of the growing season, the sparsity of inhabitants and the remoteness of the northern agricultural areas, in order to take account of the permanent handicaps of these areas. my point of departure is that the cap's instruments should be developed in such a way as to take better account of the specific circumstances of the northern agricultural regions. one idea is to regionalize and make the cap more flexible, by better identifying the conditions for farms in different regions to compete on an equal footing in the common market.
(fi) mr president, thank you for the very detailed and, in my opinion, good and positive reply of the commissioner. but i do want to ask you a follow-up question. recently, virus writers and distributors have used other people's computers as spammers. this is called the trojan horse principle. even if, for example, sixty percent of computers are protected, there is always a number of computers that are not adequately protected, and these can be used by "hackers" and "crackers" as platforms and disseminators for spam. has the commission considered how to respond to this very international problem? in other words, by using a virus and innocent people's machines, you're making the spam system a widespread problem?
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i share your view that this is an important issue raised by paasilinna. i hope that the european agency for network and information security will also be able to assess spam, and that we will be able to get different assessments of spam programmes. when the commissioner sent emails to some finnish meps last week, the parliament's spam program marked it as suspected spam. however, not with the marking suspected high, but suspected low. we need an assessment of how the spam programmes work in order to make the protection effective. i also hope that we will be able to develop tools together to expose the false identities. not only are there trojans, but there are also many false identities online.
commission. firstly, on the specific point of the peace facility, at a time when we are trying to support and sustain institutionalised african solidarity, it would be quite curious for us not to try to give the maximum support to the institutions of the african union. therefore i agree with honourable member on that. secondly, on the question of overall coherence, conceivably, things have changed since i was a british development minister many years ago. but i must say that i find that there is more coherence in the community's programmes than there was when i was a british minister. that does not mean that we are perfect: we still have a long way to go, not least in relation to the overall field of external actions. i am not just talking about cfsp and official development assistance. i hope in the next commission that there will be two former development ministers doing the job that mr nielson and i are currently doing – it would be a help. as far as the question of a foreign minister is concerned and the temporary abeyance of the moves towards creating one following the convention, i still believe that if this person – woman or man – is to emerge in the next few years from the igc, it is absolutely imperative that we draw on the strengths provided by both the council and the commission. it does not make very much sense to have a foreign minister who is somehow cauterised from the commission on the ridiculous argument that her/his activities may be polluted by too much contact with the commission. it is perfectly possible to retain the integrity of the common foreign and security policy, and the relationship with the council and member states while, at the same time, drawing on all the competences for which the commission is responsible and which, taken together, should give us a real possibility to shape an external actions strategy which meets the demand of the 21st century. foreign and security policy is no longer – if it ever was – the sort of agenda which is simply decided in the chancelleries of european capitals. foreign and security policy, development policy, trade policy, agriculture policy and external policy in the justice and home affairs fields, are all relevant to europe's impact on the rest of the world and the real positive contribution we can make there.
(fi) mr president, how does the commissioner assess the negotiations between the united states and latin america which began yesterday? are they strengthening or weakening the community's efforts as expressed by mr kinnock in his question, and what is the eu's response to the us initiative?
(fi) mr president, we are disappointed that people are still dying of hunger and disease in our advanced globalised society. with the medicines and the food we can eliminate, they could be saved. low-cost aid programs could save the lives of six million children under five years of age each year. we accept the accumulation of enormous profits worldwide. stealing billions is common. it is not true that the accumulation of immense wealth by some individuals benefits the community as a whole. hunger has a limit, greed does not. the best cure is taxation. the rich are against it. that's what sharing is. charity is not solidarity, sharing is. capitalism is developed by the power of greed, and so is poverty. we shall solve the problem of incompetence, like the wars in europe, by working together.
mr president, there is a lot of talk about preserving and promoting europe's cultural heritage. for cultures to truly flourish, we need more than words, we need concrete actions. i believe that mr prets' report will help us to make progress. the support for the proposed convention on cultural diversity by the unesco general assembly must be welcomed. i welcome the rapporteur's approach to looking at culture as part of all the different strands of eu policy. this thinking must also be extended to practical action. the culture 2000 programme is the most visible but by no means the only instrument. the structural funds are used for cultural projects, but the rate of use could be increased by more effective publicity. the internal market legislation contributes to the mobility of cultural goods, i.e. the arts and artists. we are still facing too many problems here, particularly in the area of taxation. the lisbon objective of a european information society has given a new dimension to the cultural sector. technology offers new opportunities and tools, but they must be used to serve culture and not the other way around. european cultural networks are a key resource for the promotion of cultural diversity. i hope that we can get the legal basis in place as soon as possible to secure their funding. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr prets, for his personal contribution to the promotion of cultural diversity. he has organised several european art workshops during this term.
(fi) mr president, the irish presidency will be the beginning of a new, more liberal period after the presidencies of southern europe. the northernmost member states have been the most ardent supporters of both the single market and enlargement. it sometimes seems that the further one goes from the frontier countries of the eu towards its geographical outer limits, the more genuine community spirit and imagination one finds in building a common europe. promoting economic growth and keeping the lisbon agenda on the agenda are the main priorities of the irish presidency. the european union is growing by far behind the united states. for this year, the us gdp growth rate is in a class of its own, 3.9 percent. the objectives of the lisbon agenda are getting out of hand, and i believe that the whole strategy for competitiveness is coming to an end. all the projects agreed at eu level are coming to fruition, but the member states have still not internalized the need for structural changes required by the strategy. the growth and stability pact is in tatters. the commission has also proposed that the council should be given a mandate to examine the application of the competition rules to the member states. it must become a more operational council, which better responds to the fundamental question it is asked: what is the impact of each legislative project on the eu's competitiveness? for example, what is the significance of the chemicals package and the kyoto reassessment for the eu's competitiveness? in these projects, the eu threatens to cut its own branch once more, putting its competitiveness and well-being at stake. if the presidency has had difficulty in finding points to tackle in the competitiveness council in the past, here they are on the table.
(fi) mr president, 2003 was an exceptionally dark year for international human rights. i started my new year in south africa, where i was a member of the truth and reconciliation commission which investigated the legacy of apartheid, and i do not want inequality, racism and discrimination to ever reach the same proportions anywhere again. but now that real and imagined terrorism has become a component of the world order we are in real danger of slipping into global apartheid. the european union, as a community of values and in its human rights work, which is central to security, has unfortunately been a disappointment in its practical actions in this respect. the report, entitled 'human rights start at home', published this week by amnesty international, is a sharp criticism of eu human rights policy. amnesty international complains that the governments of the eu member states often do not even bother to respond to its requests. but we have also experienced similar frustrations in the relations between the european parliament and the council. the world's leading human rights violators, such as china and russia, are getting away with it year after year. the expression of parliament's concern in these cases, as in many others, has been overshadowed by the passivity, the disagreements and the commercial and other predatory interests that underlie them in the member states of the union. in this way, good intentions, both thematic and geographical, are too often left as empty, frivolous gestures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the italian presidency has at least chosen the subject of children's rights as the subject of its human rights forum. the eu is also working to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us. the new european security strategy will again lack any lasting substance unless it is anchored in a coherent, coherent and credible human rights policy, in which the council also takes part wholeheartedly. the eyes are now on ireland. if we do not turn the tide in our bilateral relations and in the un, we will be faced not only with a combination of near-farce and catastrophe, such as the 59th session of the commission on human rights, but also with the risk of losing our historic and important moment of searching, at a time when our action could have a decisive, even revolutionary, impact.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we can often take pride in the work we are doing to implement the lisbon agenda, for example in comparison with the council and the member states. this time, however, we cannot be too proud of our work. from the time the commission presented its proposal it has taken us twenty-two months to get to the first reading and, as malcolm harbour has said before, the clarification is needed to prevent our colleagues who are not so well informed from being confused during the vote. i want to support a lot of what evelyn gebhardt said in her speech. in the meantime, i'd like to take this opportunity to congratulate her on her graduation day next week. we may not all be able to be with you, but i hope you have a nice day and that we can get back to that. listening to the debate on these issues, you often get the feeling that every country has the best education system in the world. perhaps one of the greatest benefits of being here in the european parliament is that you learn a certain humility in this respect. i have deliberately devoted a great deal of time to the committee on petitions and citizens' complaints because i agree with neil maccormick that there are problems for different types of teachers, as well as for crane operators from different countries. for example, i myself have worked for a long time with cranesman holmström from the swedish-speaking åland islands. he has not been able to have his swedish crane driver's licence recognised in finland. the occupational safety and health district in nyland has always opposed this, and i think many of you are surprised that there are such problems between finland and sweden, two countries which are quite close to each other. it's an example of how you think you have the best education. while i would like to thank the commission for its proposal for a new directive in the field of the internal market and services, i would like to raise a warning finger. we must not again act in a way that makes it easier for companies than for individuals to move across borders. all too often our actions result in individuals not having access to free movement and the single market in the way we want. as we have heard before, our group will support the commission's proposal in many respects. we also want a flexible directive, but unlike some of the other groups we do not want the annexes to be part of the text. i would, however, welcome the introduction of more precise rules on language requirements than those proposed by the commission.
(fi) mr president, i know the rapporteur, mr purvis. he believes in the market. if there is such a belief, then the best option is light regulation of the market, and the lightest regulation is, of course, self-regulation. purvis justifies the need for a derivatives market by the production of olives. in the old days, they were stabilized by advance contracts. however, in the european union, olives are a good example of how the market works when there is no control and only self-regulation. the court's report found that producers falsify production figures in their presses, add nut oil to olive oil or charge the eu for the same oil on the basis of both the quantity of trees and the quantity of oil. the market operates on greedy terms, and so do the investment and derivatives markets. the new tools work much like olive oil is squeezed from olives. the stock exchanges are the oil presses of new market instruments, where money is squeezed out of money to create new money. derivatives are the new lubricant for the wheels of the stock market's speculative machinery. the financial markets are being monitored today in the same way as nuclear safety was dealt with in parliament this week: there are only national regulators. nuclear regulators are good technical experts, whereas national regulators of investment fund derivatives are not. that's why there's no market security. there should be an ssa in the same way as there is a nsa or, say, a maritime safety authority. i would have liked the report to have looked more closely at the role of the european central bank as a possible supervisory body. a loosely regulated system and self-regulation is based on the morality of speculators, and as we know, speculators have no morality. their motivation for action is pure greed. this is a major threat to the pensions of company employees in many countries, including purvis's home country.
(fi) mr president, copyright protection and joint control are important factors in promoting cultural creativity and in seeking to safeguard the opportunities for artists. account should be taken of both economic and moral rights, the latter of which imply the author's right to control the modification of his works. the community must be able to strengthen the confidence of artists that their works are adequately protected. on the other hand, it is important to ensure the widest possible dissemination of works, since there is no art without an audience. the community has been active in this field and there are already a number of community directives in addition to national and international law. however, the lack of rules on collective copyright management organisations varies from one eu member state to another. in many cases, these copyright organizations have a de facto monopoly, which, although justified for operational reasons, creates a risk of abuse or is counterproductive as a result of the decline in the effectiveness of the organization and the increase in costs. however, there is no need to legislate against a well-founded monopoly structure, but the risks involved must be recognised. these risks must be addressed by clear rules at community level. the central premise of such rules must be the requirement of a high degree of transparency. the necessary legislative changes to community law listed in the report will also have a significant impact on economic growth: the report estimates that between 5% and 7% of the eu's gross domestic product comes from goods and services protected by copyright and related rights. it is by no means a small part of the european economy and can certainly be increased. in particular, technological developments offer great opportunities for the development of new forms of work. at the same time, the copyright control of these new types of works is becoming more challenging.
(fi) mr president, in the 1990s i worked for a large finnish development organisation as a trainer and information officer. zimbabwe was one of our proudest moments, our favourite example of what development cooperation and genuine partnership can achieve, proof that africa is thriving. what destroyed zimbabwe? i do not want to repeat the sad flurry of facts listed in the resolution. it's overwhelming. the destruction has permeated the entire structure of zimbabwe's society, from health care and education to the trade union movement and agriculture. the formerly fertile model of africa is in chaos, its economic structures have lost their "swing". by encouraging people to take over illegally - instead of timely implementing government land reform - mugabe destroyed the rule of law in the country and thereby destroyed the very core of society. this is the point. when the foundation of legality is destroyed, structures will crumble one by one. the retreat of president mugabe, a former freedom fighter and national hero, into a dictator guarding his power is the tragedy of our time. i was an election observer for a parliamentary delegation in zimbabwe a few years ago, and we could only grumble at the person who went out during the election to declare that whatever the result, the government will remain. despite the threat, the people voted. in zimbabwe, it could mean not only taking risks, but also walking tens of kilometers to vote and standing in line for hours. for someone used to easy voting, the sight was impressive. i also hope that all those who despise voting and representative democracy will see those lines for once. let us in the eu give clear, firm and consistent support to those who, despite oppression, dare to fight for law and justice.
(fi) mr president, it is said that the constitution expresses the will of both citizens and states. we know how to measure the will of states: it is decided in parliaments. it's not necessarily the same as the will of the people. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world of economic and monetary union. the countries that adopt the constitution will establish a new union. it is intended to continue the old union. the constitution abolishes the present union. the vienna convention on consular relations requires that the termination be unanimous. it is a legal right for a country to refuse to do so. if the union to which many countries have acceded after a referendum is dissolved, a referendum on accession to the new union must also be held in as many member states as possible. the constitution is almost ready at the intergovernmental conference. the military articles, which include the new construction cooperation, have been approved in naples. the military articles are not only about defence, but also, in the form of a special additional protocol, they provide for more demanding military operations, which may involve peace-making and therefore also attack. in fact, the eu is now preparing not for defence but for attack. our group does not see the need for such a militarization of the eu. nor should nato be enshrined in the eu constitution as it has now been done. the eu's crisis management must be based on a un mandate, which should be enshrined in the constitution. our group is ready to contribute to the construction of a social europe. however, the draft constitution is not satisfactory in this respect. we want to see it amended to ensure that services of general interest are available to all eu citizens. we need social security, not european militarism. our group therefore wants a social europe, but we have not been satisfied with the decisions taken in the preparatory commission or in the committee on budgets. we do not think it is appropriate to link the preparation of the constitution with the negotiations on the new financial perspective for the eu. member states must not be blackmailed into adopting a constitution which their citizens cannot accept. we need a referendum. the referendum was called by 96 members of the preparatory commission, who will represent both the 'yes' and the 'no' sides in future referendums. referendums are the people's democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to join the commissioner in saying that his area is one of the most important for consumers in europe. we have some current cases that actually affect consumers very much. the question of competition in the car industry, the microsoft decision and intellectual property rights. we know that in october 2002 the new regulation came into force with the exception of sales and service in the motor vehicle sector. our intention was that it would increase competition and give consumers more. unfortunately, it has had the opposite effect in the country i know best, namely finland. qualitative selection criteria have become quantitative and the number of repair shops for all major car brands has decreased by as much as several dozen shops. in lapland, the northernmost part of europe, you can get your brand repaired only in the town of your residence, rovaniemi. the service station in muonio, a medium-sized town, was able to service five brands on 1 october 2002. no brand service can be provided. what does the commission intend to do on this point? as regards microsoft, we heard yesterday that the commission is close to a decision on microsoft, media player and abuse of a dominant position. we again call on the commission to complete its investigation as quickly as possible and to take decisions which guarantee a real market and freedom of choice for consumers. as was clear from the parliamentary question to commissioner monti in december 2002, we expect you to look seriously at this issue so that all new operators can have a real opportunity to operate and so that certain standards do not become de facto standards that reduce competition and the free flow of information. the intellectual property, monopoly and standards that sometimes exist render much of competition law inoperative. i hope you will also take care of this so that we do not have to experience the situation we have experienced in my country, namely that the market court has to convict gramex (the association of performers and record producers) for abuse of a dominant position. when will we see a decision on microsoft?
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr pietrasanta, for his farewell speech. galileo will bring many immediate benefits, such as the egnos navigation satellite system, already this spring. it will bring new economic benefits to industry and bring long-needed competition to the navigation sector. we could have a collaboration between the gps system, galileo and the glonas system. however, i would now like to highlight the future potential of galileo, particularly in pan-european satellite-based broadband systems. combined with localization, it makes possible many new forms of economy that we can only dream of now. it is the most cost-effective way of bringing broadband to all europeans, wherever they live, without discrimination. broadband can be welcomed as an additional factor in the rise of the telecommunications industry in view of global competition. finally, although i have mainly mentioned the economic possibilities that support the lisbon strategy, i would also like to emphasise the enormous benefits of galileo for the rescue service and transport.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eldr group is very satisfied with this settlement result. looking at the results and what we were trying to achieve, we have decided that we would like to recommend this in all respects. firstly, in the previous discussions we were able to prevent an increase in the thresholds which would have significantly reduced the scope of this directive. we are really pleased about this. secondly, we believe that we have achieved safe and modern tendering methods. as previous speakers have said, i think we can now go in for both more information for businesses online and for small businesses to find out more easily what the rules are. this will help us to succeed in helping the administrations to modernise. i think that is very important now that we are talking about a competitive europe. our aim is to increase cross-border offers. when we started the debate we were sometimes concerned about the reports we received at the time that there were so few crossborder tenders. our rapporteur on the conciliation committee, charlotte cederschiöld, whom i had wished to thank for her good work, mentioned that transparency had increased considerably. i think that what the conciliation committee came to, which is actually closer to the liberal idea, is what the majority signed up to at second reading. it is important that competitors should also be able to see the final result of a tender procedure and to assess whether there has been any error. this is the most important thing in the fight against corruption and for more value for money. as we all know, the question of the social and environmental criteria has been very topical in this debate. today we can note that the commission has also drawn up an action plan for modern environmental technology. i really believe that the end result we have reached is a means to this as well. we should not be afraid of modern environmental technology. finally, i should like to say that the finnish press said after our last conciliation meeting that the ecj's concordia bus finland case, concerning the bus services of the city of helsinki, had led to a good directive on public procurement. i was a little upset about this, since no buses run without drivers. i would like to thank all the drivers who contributed to this final result and i can say that we have made a good stopover. i would like to thank the commissioner and his colleagues who delivered the opening remarks, but also the conciliation secretariat for their excellent work. we've been working on this for years, and it feels like we've made some progress. i hope it will help our administrations get more value for their money.
(pt) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is really too much! on the same day as we are discussing this report and welcoming the secretary-general of the united nations and winner of the 2003 sakharov prize, kofi annan, parliament has received depressing news from jurassic park of dictatorships: we will not be able to receive oswaldo payá, to whom we awarded the sakharov prize in 2002. this ban by the communist regime of fidel castro in cuba, which brings to mind the worst abuses of nazi germany and the stalinists in the 20th century, calls attention to the important point in this report, which says about the united nations and its reform that the european union and others must succeed in putting human rights, democracy and fundamental rights and the sanctions set out in paragraph 19 at the top of the agenda. the situation of oswaldo payá is scandalous, and so is the hostile gesture of the cuban government towards our parliament. it would be even more scandalous if these scandals were not commented on in public at all. we are confident that this parliament will send a strong message to cuba through kofi annan and that, by means of an open and permanent invitation to oswaldo payal, we will continue to actively show our solidarity with the winner of the 2002 sakharov prize and with all cuban democrats. finally, i would like to express my appreciation for some of the rapporteur's amendments, in particular amendment no 8, which draws attention to the importance of the convention on human cloning and to the costa rican initiative, which we must support.
mr president, my group is against a resolution.
the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at this very informative report on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly, which is very useful not only for us but also for the interested parties who are in any way establishing relations between europe and these countries. as the members of the assembly know and as mrs flesch's report points out, my colleague poul nielson is actively involved in the work of this assembly, and the commission services are doing their utmost to support it with documents and information, while the experts in the standing committees are now preparing the reports of the assembly. i think that the commission's sincere interest is clear, as is its close and effective cooperation with the joint parliamentary assembly. i would like to mention three points. the first is that we fully welcome the establishment of these three standing committees after the adoption of the new rules of procedure in 2003. thanks to the preparatory work within these committees, reports are more accurate and the discussions in the plenary are much clearer, more specific and more detailed. secondly, i think it is very important that the women's forum has been set up, which has given women the opportunity to have their voices heard and to be able to support each other. the convention's proposals will thus be enriched by issues relating to gender equality and the wider participation of women. finally, the joint parliamentary assembly is a very important forum for political dialogue between european and acp parliamentarians and it is therefore the commission's duty to support all this effort. on the occasion of the seventh plenary session of the assembly in addis ababa, i would like to inform you - if you already know - that our two colleagues, paul nielson and pascal lamy, will be speaking, and i would like to express my best wishes for its successful conduct.
(fi) mr president, the report on the work of the acp-eu assembly contains important aspects. it is a pleasure to note that the quality and level of cooperation between the jpa and the united nations is better than ever before. i am particularly pleased that the report shows that there is an increased cooperation with the un on the issue of child soldiers. this is the area where the battle must not be stopped until it is completely won. one child soldier is a great injustice to humanity and its future. it is estimated that there are some 300,000 child soldiers under the age of 18 in some 40 conflicts around the world. the use of child soldiers violates their human rights, depriving them of their childhood and the opportunity to receive an education and thus build a better future. military service always causes serious psychological and often physical damage to a child. the use of child soldiers has increased, among other things, with the development of weapons technology, which allows children to be put to use ever lighter and smaller weapons. the increase in the use of child soldiers is also due to the nature of modern warfare: most of today's armed conflicts are civil wars. in the first world war, only 10 percent of the war casualties were civilians; today, 90 percent are civilians. civil war is fought between different ethnic groups, practically in the middle of a civilian settlement. children thus become both targets and recruits. children are more obedient to orders than adults. children have been forced to witness atrocities and to commit them themselves under duress. many guerrilla movements and private armies even favor child soldiers over full-grown fighters. furthermore, children are ready to engage in activities that are so dangerous that adults would refuse them. one example is iran, where children have been used as couriers in minefields. save the children international was on the agenda when the un security council met in mid-january 2003 to discuss the role of children in armed conflict. the debate was preceded by the third report of the un secretary-general on children and armed conflict. for the first time, an official report lists by name the agencies that use child soldiers. this is a significant step forward, as it will enable international pressure to be brought to bear on those who are grossly violating the rights of these children. however, this excellent report still needs a little stylisation. the question time in rome was certainly of a commendably lively nature, as paragraphs 6 and 26 show, but the fact that it has been mentioned twice gives the impression that it is a very unusual exception and that the stillness and the low blood are the basic characteristics of our work.
(fi) mr president, in addition to analysing the union's policy to date, the communications are intended to provide a basis for the commission's strategy for supporting the business sector in developing countries and to prepare the commission's position on the reform of state-owned enterprises. i agree with the rapporteur that the main emphasis must be on combating poverty and ensuring access to basic services and that the focus should be on supporting small businesses. the economic developments of recent decades have been countered by structural adjustment programmes, which have included market opening and varying degrees of arrangement right up to privatisation. such a policy has not always improved the situation, however, and has been a major factor in the spread of poverty in developing countries. the commission rightly notes that there are different options for the restructuring of soes, such as the restructuring of publicly owned companies without changing ownership structures or partial privatisation. it is crucial to take the circumstances into account when choosing the reform option. in the case of privatisation, particular attention shall be paid to competition law and its application. the different reform options must be compared and, in this context, the involvement of civil society, in particular user and consumer organisations, cooperatives and trade unions, in decision-making and monitoring is essential. in any event, the overall objective of eu development cooperation, the fight against poverty, must be borne in mind. the commission's communication on the future support for the development of the business sector in third countries also provides a good starting point. it is commendable that the commission is drawing up a comprehensive strategy for the business sector. the basic objective of the strategy must simply be to make investment pay in developing countries. you have to be able to wait. you can't start with the bottomless pit. concrete support for smes and cooperatives through services, vocational training and advice on modernising the firm, as well as support for micro-enterprises, in particular by securing financing, are important. it is important to remember, however, that companies and cooperatives in developing countries also need customers to buy from them and that the most competitive markets are in the eu. the channels of fair trade and sustainable trade must therefore be made to function in such a way that european consumers can support developing countries' businesses and producers by their own purchasing decisions.
(fi) mr president, mr bowis never fails to do so: in each of his reports he not only feeds our souls with the aphorisms he chooses, but he also makes sure that the report is clear, informed and balanced. and so it is this time. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. with so much publicity, they are certainly a major factor in the insecurity of citizens. the bird flu has been featured prominently in the news these days, and aids is still unconquered, not to mention older infectious diseases such as tuberculosis. moreover, the threat of bioterrorism is unfortunately real, as the 2001 anthrax letters showed. the eu has a clear obligation under the treaties, which is only reinforced by operational reasons: joint action is more effective in promoting public health and preventing disease. the objective of launching the agency as soon as next year is therefore quite right, and the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection strongly supports this objective. the regulation under discussion is therefore intended to establish the agency promised to sweden in the package agreed by the european council last december. i would hope that the long-standing farce of completing the agencies package would later correct the decision-making process: although the decision to set up a new agency naturally falls within the council's unanimity requirement, a detail such as the geographical location of the agency should be left to a majority decision. for the balance of competences between the union and the member states, only the former is relevant. the latter only breeds national conciliationism, which should be curbed by reviewing decisionmaking structures wherever possible.
(fi) mr president, the commission's proposal for the financial framework for 2007-2013 is right on its priorities, and i would like to thank mr romano prod for that. the eu's economic growth and competitiveness lag behind that of our main competitors, so the economic contribution to growth conditions is the right and necessary priority. research, encouraging innovation and the uptake of high technology are the keys to growth. it also has a high-level infrastructure. investment in transport and energy networks will create new jobs immediately and strengthen the conditions for business, including in less developed and remote areas. in this work, the eu must be taken into account to its very limits. investing in young people is also key. the training programmes must be extended and diversified to enable young people to become more familiar with international activities. the second problem and priority is structural and cohesion policy. the new member states need support for reconstruction and strengthening the economic environment. however, this must not be at the expense of the weaker regions of the old member states. the funding must therefore be increased accordingly. the implementation of the financial framework will require a thorough modernisation of the administration. the reform of the commission carried out during this period only lays the foundations for reform. the power and responsibility must be distributed downwards, both within the bureaucracies and from the commission to the member states.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, thank you for this reply which pleases me that so much is happening. is this green paper one that would also cover programmes or plans to overcome the social exclusion gap and the concept of the digital image?
(fi) mr president, the liberal group welcomes the commission's communication. the health risks associated with salmon are clearly exaggerated. on the other hand, it is clear that eating farmed salmon is less healthy than eating wild salmon. this is one reason why the european union should pursue a policy of salmon farming as organic as possible, although salmon farms are still needed for both beef and seafood production. the baltic sea has its own private pleasure lake. the rivers of the baltic sea have produced young, who have wandered to exploit the marine food resources: shrimp and smaller fish. pollution and the use of waterways for logging and hydroelectric power have reduced the production of chicks. this loss has been partly compensated by the planting obligations imposed on hydropower companies in particular. however, the planting efficiency is low. it has been estimated that as many as 95 percent of the salmon fry that are planted die. on the other hand, salmon fishing has been too intense both on the high seas and in the coastal waters off the kut river. there's been a constant dispute over salmon fishing rights. the baltic sea is becoming an inland sea of the union as a result of enlargement, and a comprehensive plan is needed to protect the salmon stock and organise fishing. the production of lambs must be restored as close as possible to the original organic situation. rivers and streams that are amenable to drainage shall be rehabilitated to make them suitable for the uplift. fish trails must be built in the built-up water bodies, and the estuaries of these rivers must also be repaired. by promoting the natural regeneration of salmon stocks, we can open up new opportunities for sport fishing and tourism in all the baltic sea coastal states. improving the natural reproduction of salmon may reduce plantings and eventually perhaps eliminate them altogether. the funds saved can be used to build fishing routes, rehabilitate fish hatcheries and strengthen other fish stocks. the baltic salmon fisheries should be governed by the so-called 'square state principle', which has been successfully applied in the north atlantic under the nasco framework. fishing must be restricted in such a way as to ensure the sustainable natural regeneration of the stock of salmon. with the enlargement of the union, the protection of the baltic sea, the maintenance of its fish stocks and the organisation of fishing in the region will move from the scope of multilateral cooperation to a bilateral issue between the eu and russia. i believe that russia, for its part, is ready to take up the challenge of cooperation. however, the main responsibility lies with us, the eu and its member states.
(fi) mr president, one of the fundamental objectives of the union is to guarantee its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice. unfortunately, we are still a long way from that goal. the free movement of union citizens within the eu must be guaranteed, while the fight against crime must be stepped up. the main challenges are the prevention of crime, the security of the external borders and the full implementation of schengen. the schengen agreement is a major step forward in the area of free movement. under enlargement, special attention must be paid to securing the external borders. new member states can join the first phase of schengen as soon as they become members, thus preparing them for full schengen membership. during the first phase, internal border controls will continue to be carried out at the borders of the new and old member states. they should not be terminated until the control of the new external borders of the union is at the required level. the schengen information system must be updated as soon as possible so that any technical deficiencies in the union's information systems do not prevent the new member states from moving to stage two. the eu must increase cooperation between its member states' authorities in preventing and combating crime. cooperation based on conventions is an outdated and slow road in today's eu. member states sign and ratify conventions at their own pace, if at all. the entry into force of a convention may take several years from the moment when its content is negotiated. meanwhile, the lack of cooperation and information flow between authorities hinders the effective detection and prevention of crime. the union must develop new legal instruments which better meet the modern requirements for cooperation between member states. the cooperation between police, customs and border control authorities has not progressed as desired. the member state and the commission are now required to take initiatives and to act in order to achieve better coordination. the eu in its present form offers opportunities for deepening cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr stockmann for the excellent preparation of this report. at the beginning there were differences of opinion and even misunderstandings, but the rapporteur worked hard to get the matter moving and the committee was finally quite unanimous in its view on the development of a new european loading unit. the idea of developing european freight transport in a completely new way, with interoperability between different modes of transport, is a very challenging one. the harmonized containers would benefit the congested central europe and especially the overseas regions. for example, 80% of the flow of goods in finnish foreign trade is carried by sea, and the flexible operation of combined transport is of key importance. the rapporteur has chosen the right course of action. the amendments are designed to ensure compatibility with the european standardisation bodies and to prevent any disadvantages with the iso standards. the responsibility for the detailed design of the new container will be given to the operators. one possible problem is related to amendment no 17. if the containers reach a height of 9 feet (2.9 m), they will not fit over one another in modern roro ships. therefore, the container height of 2.67 metres proposed by the commission might be preferable. our group supports the proposal and we hope that it will be put to practical use as well.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kuckelkorn, on his excellent report. the budget for next year is very tight in terms of the administrative budget, as the rapporteur has said. the fact that we are going to have 10 new member states this year and the same number of new official languages adds to the rigidity. the multilingualism of parliament is a huge challenge. this requires new flexibility in translation and interpretation. nowhere else in the world is there a body that operates in so many languages as the eu institutions. but this requires special measures and care, otherwise the principle of multiculturalism can become chaos. therefore, a special effort is required from the administration to ensure that the actions are completed and the translation work is carried out smoothly from the moment of accession. in this new environment, the use of retour interpretation will increase. this could lead to a situation where the whole parliament is dependent on one interpreter to translate from a minor official language into a more general one. in order to ensure translation, it should be possible to carry out translation work from several interpreting boxes. in practice, this means that large language groups such as english, french and german should be subject to specific requirements, that they must be able to translate from more original languages than other interpreting groups. the adoption of the members' statute has been a major political issue in recent years. its falling into the council's own internal dissension was a great disappointment. the european parliament, and in particular its current president, patrick cox, had done a great deal of work to deal with the matter, and so its torpedoing was an accident. it would be important to have the statute adopted quickly, so that it could come into force preferably from the beginning of the next parliamentary term. in this year's budget we finally achieved activity-based budgeting for the commission. it's a direct way to see how much it costs to operate a microphone. the same activity-based budgeting should gradually be applied to the administrative budget, for example to the european parliament. this would also allow us to monitor the development of administrative costs and expenditure by the various branches of the administration. mr president, i would like to wish the rapporteur every success in his work.
mr president, the report by mr kuckelkorn is first and foremost a preliminary statement on parliament's own revenue and expenditure in 2005. it is regrettable that the council was unable to adopt the new statute for members of the european parliament. when parliament itself voted to reform its own system of compensation for wages and travel expenses, it was a big step in the right direction; it is not morally right to make a living off travel expenses, even though it is not against parliament's rules to travel in economy class at the price of a business class ticket. while the members of parliament were prepared to give up these ill-gotten gains in full to the airlines, it was regrettable that the council did not accept the offer. germany, france, austria and sweden are now guilty of justified criticism by citizens of the defects in the system of remuneration and allowances for members of the european parliament. there is also a problem with the council on another matter. the council wants the support of the pan-european political parties to go to the budget of the european parliament, while parliament would like it to go to the budget of the commission. if the european parliament's contribution to the budget is included, it must not affect the ceiling for parliament's administrative expenditure in such a way that other activities have to be reduced. then there are those of us who do not want european aid, who already vote against its introduction in this year's supplementary budget. then there are the dozens of members of this parliament who have brought the matter before the court of justice of the european communities. the party subsidies are being paid on the wrong grounds. the european union's support is blurring democracy. it will make it even easier for national parties in the major countries to dominate the decision-making process in the european parliaments. the representatives of the small countries face a double problem, since they must first have a voice in the european area dominated by the large countries before they can have a voice in the european parliament, which is elected on the basis of the population of the member states. the multilingualism of parliament must be maintained and the citizens of all countries must be taken into account in the selection of staff. recruitment should also be carried out from countries other than the new member states. some member states are underrepresented in parliament's staff because parliament has not organised proper recruitment competitions. parliament must strive to keep expenditure growth in check.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of young people's participation in society cannot be overstated. in the future, the responsibility of young people will increase further as the age structure of the european population changes and the proportion of young people decreases. the commission's communication on youth participation and information objectives is an important step towards strengthening cooperation at eu level in youth policy. it is gratifying that the draft constitution itself recognises the importance of youth participation. our rapporteur, lissy gröner, who is rightly the subject of the youth policy of this parliament, has done another excellent job. i would also like to thank the commission for the work it has done for young people. the extensive consultation that preceded the white paper on youth policy was a considerable effort, which finally awakened youth organisations to action at eu level. it is now necessary to ensure that the involvement of these organisations continues to be supported and that the results of their work are also reflected in the youth policy pursued by the community. i am pleased that my proposal to increase the appropriations for youth organisations in this year's budget has been adopted, and i also welcome the multiannual action programme for the financing of youth organisations, which is now coming to an end and which will finally provide them with a legal basis. the rapporteur's request that young people's participation in the first european elections in the enlarged union be supported is of paramount importance. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote in the elections. young people are active internet users and voting via the internet could attract more young people to the ballot box. although the procedure has many weaknesses in terms of the secrecy and freedom of the elections, it should not be completely excluded. at least the placement of electronic voting machines, which are used in some member states, in places favoured by young people could increase voter participation. the diversity of the european union is becoming more apparent with enlargement, and so is the importance of intercultural learning. the future youth programme will facilitate interaction between young people and thus help to overcome prejudices. i would like to stress in this context that intercultural learning should not be limited to crossborder cooperation between member states. the eu member states, both present and future, must provide the conditions for building links between the young people of the majority and those belonging to national minorities. europe cannot afford to let nationalism and xenophobia grow.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, although education in the union is the responsibility of the member states, the european union has many opportunities to support cultural education in schools. these are mainly provided by multiannual programmes such as socrates, leonardo da vinci and culture 2000. all of them promote cultural creativity and mobility, intercultural dialogue and knowledge of the history of the peoples of europe. language learning, which is closely linked to cultural competence, plays an important role in union policy. in 2001 we celebrated the european year of languages. i am pleased that the rapporteur in his report emphasizes the importance of knowing european history and cultural heritage. the history of our country is not only one of wars and bloodshed but also of fruitful interactions that enrich national cultures. we can see that many artists who are important to the identity of independent national states have been at the same time important european actors. as the report rightly points out, the enlargement of the union requires a greater awareness of the culture and history of the new and old member states. i believe it will strengthen our sense of belonging, because the baltic and central european countries now joining the union are firmly rooted in a common european cultural heritage. culture, education and research are at the heart of the commission's proposal for the financial framework 2007-13. investing in them is central to the success of the lisbon strategy, but culture and education have a wider role to play than economic success. they create opportunities for people to grow spiritually and to understand one another. i therefore welcome the recommendation in the report that the commission and the member states should ensure that european research programmes promote projects on the key features of european civilisation, such as the common legal heritage, the history of institutions and culture, the norms of coexistence, social and anthropological practices and artistic expressions. i hope that the objectives set out in the report will be taken into account when the commission prepares new multiannual programmes for culture, education and youth exchanges. the report also contains material for consultations between eu education and culture ministers on common educational and cultural policy objectives.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, russia must accept the partnership and cooperation agreement. the european commission has decided to threaten russia with a trade boycott if it does not accept the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to future member states. there's not much cooperation left if you have to fight about partnership like this! our policy towards russia has failed miserably. for the last 50 years, nothing concrete has been achieved except for the kaliningrad question. the eu and nato's eastward expansion will reduce russia's influence and trade by hundreds of millions. in this context, moscow has raised fourteen concerns, such as transitional periods for customs tariffs; we, the old member states, are currently putting transitional periods on the labour force of the new states. the union has not accepted any of these. in return, russia rejects the kyoto protocol and is tightening relations with the baltic minority. however, a trade boycott would, through an increase in the price of raw materials, cause very serious damage to some member states, to others less, to some not at all, but to my country for example, because there the share of russian trade is very high and we also have some experience in the history of managing difficult relations. now, in fact, russia is being pushed right up against the wall with this trade policy thread at the same time as two enlargements are taking place. so we're going to go into the russian trading posts. the country has just had a more nationalistic parliament than before, and the same features are now reflected in the presidential campaign. the eu's ministerial troika must now take the initiative and make a suitable proposal before the summit to resolve this, because this is an area of cooperation where we must find new ways. we cannot force democracy into russia, but it will be through deepening cooperation. the best and most effective way is to influence president putin directly, who, as we have just seen, has a central role in all events. this calls for cooperation, not just boycotts. i understand the criticisms, such as those of chechnya and sosnovy bor, but they are nevertheless part of this cooperation which we must now build and finally produce results so that both sides will see the benefits of this cooperation and put an end to this strange threat which is not in keeping with today's cooperation.
(fi) mr president, the liberal group is very pleased with the report by mr belder on russia. however, we are prepared to accept a few amendments. we hope, on the other hand, that the other groups will support our own amendment concerning the status of national minorities in russia. the european union has recently been reflecting on our relations with russia. we have come to the common conclusion that the strategy adopted in the past has not worked satisfactorily. the main reason for this has been the union's inability to act in a united way towards russia, and in particular the tendency of some large member states to act in isolation. we need to get this fixed. but there is another key reason for our failure to succeed, one that has received too little attention in our own reflections. the union does not have sufficient knowledge or understanding of the political situation in russia. at least for the time being, russia has not followed the diplomatic and political principles which are obvious to us and to other western countries. this is reflected, among other things, in the fact that russia has clearly not been prepared to accept the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement to the new eu member states. the threat of sanctions might not work as well as it should, and could lead to a trade war, which could hurt eu member states more than russia. however, i have not yet seen such a threat, although it may have been discussed at times. we need to be patient and moderate in our relations with russia. in order to be able to pursue our own objectives effectively and to control our own interests, we must always take account of the specific features of the political situation in russia, however laborious and difficult it may be.
(fi) mr president, i will continue this debate, which is largely in finnish, but i agree with the views of mr brie, who has just spoken, even though he is not my compatriot. the eu and russia have become more unpredictable than ever before for good reason, both internally and externally. it is worrying if russia is becoming our own middle east, where, because of europe's energy dependence, we are prepared to accept the continuation year after year of human rights violations such as the chechen tragedy, the growing risks of oil transport, the collapse of nuclear security and the worrying reductions in civil liberties. the key issue here is freedom of expression, the state of which can be reliably inferred from the situation of other political rights. in addition to independent media, an independent judiciary is essential for the development of a vibrant civil society in russia, which has never been a full-fledged nation state. the eu does not seem to have any coherent or consistent policy towards russia, nor is there any order of priority. this is also reflected in the neglect of the northern dimension of the union, even though the regional cooperation it involves, particularly in the baltic sea and the arctic, is vital for the stability of the eu's neighbouring regions and hence for common security, and even though its importance is only growing with the enlargement of the union to the baltic. the northern dimension is certainly more than kaliningrad, and it is represented by the sámi population of the kalotti region from norway to russia, which is also the only indigenous people in the eu. in conclusion, it is worth noting that our relations with russia have been remarkably peaceful and trouble-free, which is not really the eu's fault either.
(fi) mr president, it is positive that the general affairs council has unanimously communicated that the eu-russia partnership agreement will be automatically extended to new member states. there is no reason for that to be a separate negotiation. if there are problems in the economic and trade relations between the enlarged union and russia, they can then be discussed separately between the union and russia. russia is the eu's most important border neighbour. it is in the interests of both the union and russia that relations develop favourably in all areas of life. it is also necessary to be able to discuss sensitive issues such as human rights. we must ensure that the union is united in its policy towards russia and that russia understands that the eu cannot be ridiculed politically. the baltic states, which will join the eu at the beginning of may, will be as much a part of the union as the old member states. the eu has also been a member of the united nations since the beginning of the year, and membership has been conditional on meeting the copenhagen criteria, including human rights and minority rights. these conditions have been fulfilled. russia is also committed to respecting human rights as a member of the osce and the council of europe. it would be very important to be able to secure the activities of the cia in chechnya. eu-russia relations have been marked by talk of strategic cooperation based on shared values. perhaps we should move from these lofty goals to something more concrete. the eu's share of russia's foreign trade will rise to 55%. the eu needs oil and natural gas, so there is a need to develop energy cooperation. as part of this, environmental considerations must be taken into account, whether in the production of energy or in its transport. the st. petersburg summit identified research, education and culture as one area of cooperation. i strongly support the exchanges of researchers, teachers and students and the increased cooperation between educational institutions. building sustainable cooperation requires networking among citizens. here too, opportunities should be given to young people who do not have to bear the burden of a divided world.
(fi) mr president, it seems that some of the work done by this parliament, including by women, is in danger of being wasted because the remaining time in the house is simply not enough for us. i think that would be a great pity and a great loss to all the rapporteurs and amendment authors who have worked so hard. i ask whether it is possible to hold an additional two-day mini-session at the end of april, at which such reports, which may not be dealt with, could be voted on and adopted. this plenary session could be held without debate or could be limited to the two-minute speeches made by the commission and the rapporteur. i would prefer to see the report debated without any speeches than to see it dealt with in its entirety. the second alternative would be to limit speaking time in the april part-session in the way i have just described and to increase voting time accordingly. i hope, mr president, that you will give this matter serious thought and seek solutions that are consistent with the increased legislative power of this parliament.
(fi) mr president, it is important that the common position focuses clearly on commercial and professional crime. this leaves the small-scale copying for personal use alone. we have no need or means to interfere with the copying done by private citizens. in the information society, the most dangerous and neglected problem is the invasion of people's privacy. the share of counterfeit foodstuffs has increased by 75% and the share of counterfeit cds by 15 000%, or almost half of all music recordings. twenty thousand jobs are lost every year. however, it is important to distinguish between intentional and unintentional copyright infringement. it is also important because it protects the product development of small firms by providing some kind of protection in the basement of patent law. i am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that the criminal law, which is a matter for the member states, is no longer being interfered with. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. you see, in the same package, there are patents and copyrights. the piracy created by commercial crime is eating away at jobs. but you can't invade the privacy of the innocent. let us make further corrections in the next directive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to comment on what neil maccormick said. the european ombudsman has asked the commission to carry out a clarification inquiry into these financial declarations. i ask the commission to respond to the european ombudsman because it is as neil maccormick said. there are very big ambiguities and this must be clarified when the new parliament meets. i would ask the commission to reply to the ombudsman's question on the same subject.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on behalf of myself and johanna boogerd-quaak, i would like to say that we voted against the fourtou report in the final vote. it is true that it is important to take action against piracy, but the way the legislation is now is very advanced. in particular, the fact that the regulatory framework includes patents is a wrong move. we can also agree with the criticism of procedure made by horst schnellhardt, and it can also apply to this point. for example, the group had very few opportunities to discuss this before we faced a final decision. it is also worth noting that over 50 leading intellectual property experts in europe sent a call to parliament asking it to look more closely at this, but we have not done so. the legal basis is also open to question, since the matter is now a procedural one. such procedures have not been generally accepted in the community under article 95 of the ec treaty. i would therefore like to point out that we have a regulatory framework which may be harmful to small businesses and which does not limit itself to fighting piracy, which would be the important thing.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was not recorded as being present in yesterday's minutes. i'm sorry about that. can it be corrected?
(fi) mr president, guantánamo is not a war but a return to the arbitrariness of the sovereign ruler, which is now represented by the logic of a permanent state of emergency, driven by the sole hegemonic superpower. this pressure on the rule of law may gradually break our hard-won legal tradition. this is a historic challenge. fortunately, the courts in the united states, as well as more recently in germany, in the cases of mounir el-motassadeq and abdelghani mzoudi have stood up to defend the most fundamental of human rights, including the right to a fair trial. the illegal deprivation of liberty does not protect the interests of the united states but only makes it more difficult to fight the legitimate fight against terrorism. it can only be achieved through cooperation and legal procedures, the elimination of which is indeed a surrender to terrorism. it's the wrong signal in every way.
the rapporteur. {\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ the decision must be taken now so that the organizations eligible for funding can receive their grants for this year. i would like to thank all those who helped to bring about a successful mediation at the end of last year. the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn, and many other colleagues were very helpful. my own cooperation with the commission and the council has been very good at different stages of the process. the commission's proposal for a community action programme to support cultural organisations became necessary with the move to an activity-based budget. european cultural organisations previously funded under the a-part of administrative expenditure need a legal basis to continue their funding. the compromise reached in the conciliation procedure will make the financial framework three-yearly. the first two years will be governed by the decision on beneficiaries taken by the committee on budgets last autumn, i.e. earmarking, and the third year will be governed by an open call for proposals. the legal basis to be created will also finance the activities of the european office for minority languages and the mercator network, as well as the memorial sites of the concentration camps. the overall budget of the programme is eur 19 million. the commission proposal was examined and it became apparent, inter alia, from the opinions of the legal services of all the institutions, that the previous procedure, whereby parliament designates the organisations it supports by name, is not in line with the new financial regulation. i myself am in favour of an open call for proposals for reasons of principle. parliament is a legislative body, and it is not our job to appoint individual beneficiaries. it does not meet the requirements of transparency and good administrative practice. parliament sets the guidelines and evaluates the decisions taken by the commission on the basis of the findings. after nearly five years of close cooperation with european cultural networks, i am convinced of the european added value they bring. it is of the utmost importance that experts and creators from the museum sector, the cultural administration, the art college, the schools, the theatre and music should be given the opportunity to cooperate. i believe that cultural networks have an important contribution to make to the success of eu enlargement. they are both important messengers of our common european cultural heritage and cultural diversity and generators of new ideas. i believe that now that we have the legal basis for funding in place for three years, we are off to a good start in safeguarding the functioning of the transeuropean cultural networks. i am very pleased that the commission's proposal for a new financial framework emphasizes the importance of european cultural and educational cooperation in building europe's future. i would like to thank and congratulate commissioner reding on that.
(fi) mr president, the package of legislation under consideration is intended to provide a legal basis for certain cultural, educational and youth programmes. these are intended to provide financial support to institutions and organisations in the field. the european parliament's budget has supported certain institutions, and in particular voluntary ngos, which have promoted european action and strengthened european identity, in accordance with the so-called a-30 items. over time, the level of assistance from ngos has become so established that it is taken for granted that it is directed at former recipients. the selection of organisations and institutions to receive the aid appears to have been largely random. the involvement of new players has been very difficult, as the selection criteria have been vague. the choice of organisations seems to have been influenced more by the fact that they have had good spokespersons in the relevant parliamentary committees than by the quality of their work. this detail was taken into account in the reform of the financial regulation, which resulted in the reduction and elimination of the earmarking of budget lines. the package of legislation now under consideration creates a legal basis for the assistance of organisations active in the fields of education, culture and youth. the objective should be to ensure that the european union's forms of assistance are transparent and justified. this requires little or no obvious, recurring targets for assistance. organisations and institutions must demonstrate by their own actions that they are excellent and better than other players in the sector. funding shall be based on applications which are assessed in an impartial and fair manner. the financial allocation shall clearly identify the objectives to be achieved by the action supported by the eu and the beneficiary shall provide a reliable account of the use of the funds. i would like to thank the rapporteurs ulpu ivar, doris pack and christa prets for their very good reports.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, i share the concern of mrs isler béguin. air pollution is indeed a major public health issue and such an epidemiological study would certainly be necessary. this would also support the emphasis on science in the sixth framework programme, and the improvement of the level, quality and coverage of environmental research. in your reply you mentioned the clean air for europe programme, the cafe programme. does this cafe programme focus only on outdoor air quality and pollution, or could indoor air quality and in particular passive smoking be investigated in this context? i am very concerned that the research is limited to outdoor air quality and, somewhat narrowly, to this air pollution. could this be thought of as referring to clean air in all its forms, including indoors? could passive smoking in particular be an area of research in this programme?
(fi) mr president, the 1996 air quality framework directive is the basis for the current and three previous acts. the framework directive lists the air pollutants for which limit values, target values and, where appropriate, alert thresholds must be established. the committee on the environment adopted 60 amendments to the commission proposal, bringing it more in line with the three previously adopted air quality directives. mr president, this integrated air quality package, which is now being finalised, will effectively prevent air pollution in the eu, except in one important area: small particles. at present, measuring the smallest particles is difficult and therefore practically non-existent. yet, it is against the smallest particles that the human body is most vulnerable. as the larger particles stop at different points in our respiratory system, the smaller ones go straight to our lungs and also stay there. the health risks are obvious. i think that the commission's technical working groups are the right place to assess the risk of fine particulate matter and the possibility of measuring it. the expert members of these working parties, representing different stakeholders, should draw up opinions on individual pollutants on the basis of existing knowledge and thus provide a basis for proposals for directives. with the package of four air quality directives now being finalised, the working groups should be given the task of addressing the problems of fine particulate matter in an effort to create common methods and criteria for member states. this would be an essential complement to the community's efforts to improve air quality and promote public health in the member states.
(fi) mr president, i think this directive is so important that we should be very passionate about it, because, as has been said many times here, it concerns heavy metals and pahs, which are carcinogenic, and many of them damage the cell membranes even in small doses. the aim is to prevent and reduce the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and the environment. it has also been stated here that the present directive differs from the earlier subsidiary directives in that it does not set binding limit values. this is justified by the fact that it is not possible to find cost-effective measures in the short term. it could also be thought that if binding limit values are set, then they would force us to find cost-effective means. we have many examples of how, when clear objectives have been set and there is sufficient incentive for them, technical solutions have also been found. monitoring and measurement are an important part of this directive and more attention needs to be paid to the comparability of measurement techniques and results at both national and community level. effective monitoring will allow for the setting of new binding limit values as new technical applications are developed. however, measurements must be carried out in a cost-effective manner, taking into account different circumstances.
(fi) mr president, the reports before us concern the extension of the agricultural reform to olive, cotton and tobacco production. the main content is the same as in the other reforms: decoupling of aid from production. the decoupling of aid from production is likely to be particularly attractive to opponents of tobacco farming. more than eur 6000 per hectare would be paid through the subscription scheme, i.e. the beneficiary would receive the aid even if he did not produce tobacco at all. in this way, the eu would strongly support the abandonment of farming and the transition to other production or to summering. this is part of the farm reform. the agricultural reform is the biggest reform of european agriculture in the history of the eu. as the reform will start next year, it is important that it is not implemented in a way that jeopardises the income of private farmers. the reform is very difficult to put into practice because of the different types of farms across the eu, as well as the management relationships between them. if the reference period is 2000 to 2002, the ownership structure changes every five years, as do the areas of the farms, the production lines and the investments made. the risk therefore is that the changes to farm subsidies will be drastic and unfair. it is not in vain that you, commissioner fischler, have reminded us of this in your letter to the ministers for agriculture. the second problem is social acceptance. traditionally, agricultural aid has been regarded as compensation for farmers producing their products below production costs. does the taxpayer accept that the aid is paid even if it does not produce anything?
(fi) mr president, in seeking solutions to the problems that have led to the institutional reforms of the eu and the failure of the cap, we must keep in mind the internal market and the maintenance and improvement of the competitiveness of our economies. the implementation of internal market legislation at national level is an essential prerequisite for achieving the lisbon objectives. the increase in the need for implementation is fragmenting the eu market and reducing the benefits of the single market. the accusing finger cannot be pointed solely at the member states' lax pace in implementing the lisbon objectives. the competitiveness council's work needs to be strengthened and it needs to return to the fundamental question: what is the impact of each of the laws being prepared on the eu's competitiveness? the commission is also in the midst of a major clean-up. at the moment, the members of the commission are tearing up their directives in different directions. the preparation of the chemical package was a good example of this. such laws do not improve the eu's competitiveness. on the contrary, it is in serious jeopardy. next autumn, the commission will set up a portfolio of competitiveness commissioners, whose task will be to deliver the lisbon objectives and to coordinate and coordinate the work of the commissioners for industry, the environment and employment. competitiveness, prosperity and europe are not utopias. we don't need any more pop-cones. the drugs exist, they were invented in the spring of 2000 in lisbon. the states just have to do what they agreed to do.
(fi) mr president, the union is making its biggest political decision now, because the gap between the new members and the existing ones is greater than in previous enlargements. i hope that the newcomers will understand that the union is not a union for national purposes but a union which will move forward through the results of cooperation. it is to be hoped that the union will not be used as a punisher of past eastern injustices or as a supporter of western unilateralism. the european union does not resolve conflicts by war or force but by negotiation, as we have learned from our history. the european model differs from practices in the east and the west in that democracy also includes civil rights in the workplace, in education and even in the information society. democracy also includes workers' rights, which is why the tripartite model should be introduced in the new member states as soon as possible. the main partners of enlarged europe are the united states and russia. both have political and commercial problems. inside, we are extraordinarily disintegrated. the enlargement has taken place, the constitution is not yet in force, the future financial framework has not been decided and the outgoing commission has taken the council to court. two thirds of the members of parliament are already leaving before the members of the commission. nationalism seems to be on the rise, with the largest member states pushing for special rights. if the constitutional treaty is not adopted this year, it will be increasingly difficult in the years to come. i just hope that we don't end up with this whole project falling apart because of selfishness. however, enlargement shows that peaceful and equal cooperation is the most sustainable in all circumstances.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to update the ten priority projects is important for the development of europe. i hope that this will be implemented quickly, and it would therefore be wise for this parliament to be moderate in the number of projects. the motorway of the sea is a new form of action which i hope will also be realised through rapid decision-making. it provides opportunities for the development of sustainable, more environmentally friendly modes of transport in a way that maximises logistics efficiency. i think the concept of a motorway of the sea should not be too restrictive. the maritime motorway projects must also be available on existing sea lanes. the vote on the northern triangle will include the extension of the baltic sea arc. i support this small change, which, if implemented, would improve cross-border rail transport between finland and sweden.
(fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, although i am not entirely unconnected with the concern of mr nogueira and mr ortuondo, it would be good if parliament were to clarify the importance to be attached to these summits of the few member states. the three states met at this meeting on the 18th of last month and it seems that the details of the constitutional treaty were also discussed at this meeting. the information has been circulating in the public about these very voting procedures, the weighting of votes in the council and the appointment of commissioners, and it would be good if we could hear from you how ireland has dealt with these matters as president of the council. have they been discussed, have there been any concrete proposals to the council from this summit of the big three and what is the plan for the future?
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the internal market is indeed one of the most important steps towards achieving the lisbon objectives. the effective functioning of the internal market requires real commitment at both the supranational level, which sets the objectives of the internal market, and the national level, which implements decisions. although the objectives have been set and the necessary legislation has already been enacted at eu level, their implementation is at a truly shameful level in many member states. the commission should therefore do more to monitor the implementation of the decisions taken. i agree with the rapporteur, mr miller, that member states which do not fulfil their obligations should be punished more frequently, more quickly and more severely, for example by fines. the impact and effectiveness of eu legislation should also be continuously assessed, as we do not need unnecessary legislation. a functioning internal market is a great way to create jobs and wealth. one of the most serious obstacles to the functioning of the internal market is the low mobility of labour and the inflexibility of the labour market. the decision of most eu countries, including finland, not to allow free movement of labour from the new member states is a flagrant discrimination against the citizens of the new member states. so far, only ireland and the united kingdom have announced that they will open their borders to labour from the central european countries joining the union on 1 may. the other old member states are taking advantage of the possibility of keeping their borders closed, even though one of the eu's founding pillars is the free movement of labour. the decisions taken under pressure from the ai movement were certainly not expected by the new member states. the restrictions could even have been accepted if the information about them had been available to the new member states in copenhagen when the accession agreements were signed. the reluctance of the present member states to change and to implement the necessary structural solutions is short-sighted and futile and undermines the economic growth of both the present and the new member states. in the online sector, market opening has brought significant benefits to consumers, businesses and society. competition has increased, prices have fallen, innovation and choice have increased. in order to enhance the eu's international competitiveness, it would be important to address all the problems affecting the internal market. in this case, the removal of barriers to trade in crossborder services in the services sector is of paramount importance. i hope that the services directive will be rapidly improved.
the commission (es) mr president, the commission is aware of the current concern about the impact of sonar on marine mammals. their low and medium frequency pulses can disturb cetaceans and there is also information that these sounds can impact other types of fish and their behaviours. european legislation - in particular the habitats directive - requires eu member states to take the necessary measures to establish a strict protection system for all cetaceans present in european waters. however, in the absence of a comprehensive and authoritative analysis of all available information on the effects of sonar, it is extremely difficult to take a clear position on the matter. this issue was already raised by the commission at the meeting of the habitats committee on 20 november 2002 and the information subsequently obtained on this highly complex issue from member states and regional marine environmental organisations should be complemented by additional scientific studies. on 25 september 2003, the commission asked a specialised and independent scientific body - the international council for the exploration of the sea, denmark - to carry out a report and a scientific assessment of all relevant information concerning the effect of sonar on cetaceans and fish and to highlight the gaps in our current knowledge and to make recommendations for future research. the commission is also interested in receiving views on other possible measures which could reduce the effect of sonar on these types of marine animals. only on the basis of sound scientific information will it be possible to determine in a coherent and cooperative manner at community level the measures necessary to avoid disturbing cetaceans by sonar-related activities, ensuring compliance with the provisions of our habitats directive. the commission is also aware of the possible effects of military activities on the environment, but it is not possible to take further community measures to regulate the development of new military technologies because of the lack of union competence in this specific area.
(fi) mr president, i am pleased that the debate on the lfas system is continuing in the european parliament, albeit at a slow pace. in january last year, my oral question to the commission on the environmental impact of the lfas was dealt with. mr solbes mira, you promised at the time that the commission would send a letter to all the member states on this subject, for which i thank you, and you stated that the radar would be in breach of the habitats directive in respect of possible adverse environmental effects. the commission concluded that it was necessary to take action to investigate the effects of the lfas. i'm glad things are moving forward. last october, we, on our part, were with a parliamentary delegation at nato headquarters in brussels handing over a petition signed by over 85 000 people and 68 environmental organisations on the subject. since the initiative, more scientific evidence has also been obtained. recently, nature magazine published an article on the subject, referring, among other things, to the beaching and mass death of fourteen whales in the canary islands a year ago in september. at the same time, naval exercises were being held in the area, and four hours after the exercises began, the whales began to come ashore. they were found to have severe bleeding, liver and internal organ damage, and signs of what is called diver's disease. i therefore continue to urge the nato member countries to restrict the use of the radar system until its environmental impact and its link to the recent whale deaths have been fully investigated. the low-frequency radar system developed by the united states and nato countries may cause whale strays to beaches and fatal internal damage to their internal organs. the high-sibel, low-frequency sound produced by the radar can travel thousands of miles out to sea. since the 1980s, the united states has developed an lfas radar system to monitor new technology submarines that are difficult to detect with the former passive radar. the objective of monitoring territorial waters is legitimate but the adverse effects of the lfas system do not appear to be justified. so we need to develop alternative techniques. whale deaths have occurred in areas where the united states has tested the system. in march 2000, 17 whales washed ashore in the bahamas, and eight of them died while testing a naval radar system at sea. autopsies on dead whales revealed blood spills in the brain and inner ears caused by extremely loud noise. in its report on the bahama incident, the u.s. navy said that the radar system was the most likely cause of the whale deaths. the loud noise drove the whales to the beach, where they died of heat stroke and, eventually, internal bleeding.
(fi) mr president, i think it is important that the wider european and partnership policies should take account of the importance of ukraine as a country with historical, cultural and economic links to europe. at the same time, it must be remembered and reminded by the ukrainian administration that a genuine partnership can only develop through democracy, the rule of law and respect for civil and human rights. ukraine still has a long way to go in these matters. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement. poor prison conditions, arbitrary arrests and excessive detention for the purposes of investigation remain serious problems. the resolution lists many concrete shortcomings, violations of human and civil rights, which must be corrected if the partnership is to develop effectively. the eu must encourage ukraine to improve governance and democracy. the tacis democracy programme is one of the instruments to be used to strengthen the independent media of civil society and democratic institutions. the council and the commission should closely monitor developments in ukraine and take active action, inter alia, to ensure that the october presidential elections are held in a transparent manner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on the night of march 19, 23 young people died in a terrible bus accident in konginkangas, in central finland. this collision between a bus and a truck is the worst road accident in the history of our country. a commission of inquiry has been appointed by the government to investigate the causes of the accident. was it the extremely slippery pavement, loose paper rolls, or was there something else that caused the accident that took the lives of 23 young people? i hope that parliament will also be able to benefit from this commission's investigation in the future. at the same time, i ask that when you, mr president, visit finland in two weeks' time, you convey the parliament's condolences to our people for this terrible accident.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. the olaf, the european anti-fraud office, was set up under strong pressure from parliament to replace the former uclaf. we must of course clarify its functioning, but at the same time we must ensure that the eu does not become a police state. our group does not support at this stage the 39 points which go too far and which outline olaf's future position. we want to keep a number of options open and that is why we have drafted amendment no 8. it shall take account of the powers of the olaf supervisory committee in relation to the discretion of the director-general, the physical location of the secretariat and also the rights of persons whose activities are investigated by olaf. we should remember that it is a very scary situation when olaf investigates an unfounded report. since paragraphs 1 and 2 reflect the charge that maladministration and fraud are due to the fact that the same commissioner has both budgetary and financial controls, we cannot accept this conclusion as too simplistic. we also do not want to underestimate the commission's determination and firmness in pursuing administrative reforms.
(fi) mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the good preparation of his report. the welfare of the animals must be ensured during transport. this is important. most of the transport was carried out properly. but we have seen some horrifying examples of problems. they must be enforced with clear instructions and effective supervision. the situation varies from one member state to another and from one region to another. i know the conditions in finland best, and particularly in the sparsely populated northern regions. there, distances are long, space is scarce and slaughter is concentrated in a few large units, partly due to strict eu regulations. however, the transport of animals has been carried out excellently. the cars have cctv, air conditioning, and the animals are lifted into the car. however, the maximum transport time proposed is not quite sufficient. it is also essential for animal welfare that derogations from the extension of the transport time be granted to sparsely populated areas, mountain areas and islands. a derogation is also needed for the transport of breeding calves. keeping animals in cars for long periods of time or unloading between breaks is impossible. without this exception, agriculture in the peripheral regions of the union would be impossible, which is certainly not the purpose of this report. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has approved the derogation and it is also included in mr maat's report. i hope that parliament will also accept this derogation and that agriculture can continue to exist in the less-favoured areas.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are facing the approval of a framework for our food packaging. it almost feels like a symbolic act, since we have almost completed all the legislative work on the green paper on food. after all that has been settled, we shall now set the framework. i hope it works. i would like to emphasize that this is about approving the principles to be applied to materials coming into contact with food. we do not approve new material as such, but we tell it how to be done. i see it as an example of good legislation that we set the direction and set the limits of what is to be approved. packaging will continue to require explicit approval on many occasions, with regard to the substances and foodstuffs for which it is intended. to take an example, how fat is the food that the material comes in contact with? i can assure consumers that we will continue to be careful, for example, that phthalates are not released from soft plastics. as the commissioner said, the three main innovations are the new management resulting from the establishment of a european food safety authority and thus transparency, the new principles contained in food law and, finally, the possibility of approving active intelligent packaging. the majority of parliament seems to be prepared to accept active packaging, i.e. packaging which can absorb oxygen and moisture from its surroundings or release antioxidants. research projects have shown that tomatoes and fruit retain their proper shape for longer in active packaging. used properly, i think they can actually lead to less additives. this would be an advantage, since we are concerned that there may be a link between additives and the increasing number of allergies. personally, i prefer active packaging around my bread. i myself have found an unopened package after two years and found that the bread was completely unchanged. as we said, these active intelligent packaging should bring benefits to both consumers and producers. i can also imagine situations where the packaging mentioned above helps us to save energy, which would of course be valuable. the conditions for our approval of new types of packaging include that they are compatible with community legislation in general. substances allowed in food must be authorised and active packaging must not mislead consumers. bad odour should not be covered by other odours. smart packaging can tell us how food has been stored, and thus show whether it has been stored properly. we know, for example, that some smoked foods can be difficult to store properly. let us hope that in the future intelligent packaging will be developed, which will show, for example, how smoked fish has been handled and whether it has been handled correctly. we know that in this context there have been occasional problems with listeria. as the commissioner said, we will have discussions on the reuse of materials. the requirements have also been increased for plastics, metals and paper used in packaging. it is important that new rules are adopted under this regulation and that we know for sure that food packaging needs to be approved in order to be safe. further rules on traceability will be adopted on the basis of and in line with previously adopted legislation. in its work, parliament has tried to emphasize that the data to be retained should be those needed to investigate problems that may arise later. i also believe that the rules we are now establishing for traceability are important in order to ensure that all parties have equal opportunities to be suppliers to large food chains. i am glad that we have set out clear rules on publicity and language. the commission proposal was not entirely clear on this point. if there had been more rules on clear, binding rules for good administration, we would probably have missed some amendments. but that was not the case. which is why we need to get things straight here and now. for my part, i regret that the council and the commission did not want to recognise the independence of the food authority. i hope we can adopt this report in one reading. that would be the case if we voted for block number one and block number two. this is in line with what we have reached in our negotiations with the council and what coreper approved last week. however, i see no reason to accept amendment no 17. i would like to thank the commission and the council for their good cooperation. however, i would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs and our good officer virpi köykkä for their excellent work. it's been a pleasure working with her.
(fi) mr president, the use of cfcs has been significantly reduced by the switch to cfcs in cooling systems, aerosols and other applications. the montreal protocol sought to eliminate cfcs, since these gases are harmful to stratospheric ozone. the present report is necessary because hfcs are not innocent either, but are potent greenhouse gases. they have a global warming potential of 100 or even more than 1,000 times that of carbon dioxide. the decay time of these gases in the atmosphere can also be very long. the threat of climate change therefore requires that hfcs be restricted as well. i myself was active and made amendments, particularly on the air-conditioning systems in vehicles. my own view is that the best solution for total emissions is to switch to systems that use carbon dioxide. recent news reports indicate that a japanese car manufacturer has already begun using this technology in series production, and european manufacturers should follow suit. co2 is also user-friendly, as it reacts faster than hfc to the desired temperature and is also cheaper in terms of fuel costs than the alternative gases available. at present, the slightly higher price of the co2-based system is marginal in terms of the consumer price of air conditioners, and the economies of scale ensures that the price ratio can be reversed once series production starts. the compromise proposals put forward by our rapporteur and adopted in committee do not entirely correspond to my own amendments, but i can accept them as an improvement on the original proposals. the timetable thus adopted is, in my view, too slow in terms of climate change, especially given the sharp increase in vehicle air conditioning in recent years. overall, the role of private transport in combating climate change will thus be further emphasised. it is essential for fixed systems to ensure appropriate training for installers of equipment and the reporting of leaks by such a professional. this allows, on the one hand, to minimise the amount of emissions and, on the other hand, to achieve the certainty of reporting that is essential for monitoring. i hope that the restrictions will have an effect soon.
(fi) mr president, the european environmental health strategy is an important part of the practical implementation of the eu's sixth environment action programme. it was the third priority of the environmental programme and it was then stated that it was a very important part of the new challenges we are facing. in many countries, work in environmental health and protection has already made a significant contribution to achieving a high level of environmental health. but we still have a job to do. achieving and maintaining the highest possible level of health care must also be one of the main objectives of the union of 25. prevention of disease and the protection of health in all its aspects must be a key element in the implementation of the strategy. for some reason this principle was not discussed in committee when this matter was discussed, but i hope that in future discussions it will be prevention that will be at the very centre. the first section of the strategy focuses on factors that are intended to have a particular impact on childhood diseases. this is a good starting point for the objectives of providing citizens with an environment in which the level of pollution does not cause adverse effects on human health and the environment. to achieve this, investment is needed, of course, in research, but also in training and in concrete investments to ensure a better environment in the future.
commission. i should like to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the rapporteurs ms korhola and ms schörling, for making speedy progress with the proposals before us today. adoption of this package of proposals will mean that we have passed a milestone in strengthening environmental democracy: the århus convention’s requirements on access to environmental information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters will be set to apply throughout the whole of the european union. we already have in place legislation concerning the århus convention’s first and second pillars – access to environmental information and public participation in environmental decision-making. the proposal for a directive on access to justice in environmental matters and for a regulation to apply the århus convention to the community institutions and bodies will allow the community to complete the package of legislative instruments aimed at effective implementation of the århus convention. you will remember that the proposal on access to justice also fulfils a commitment from the commission to the european parliament when negotiating the public participation directive. in addition, the commission’s proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the århus convention by the european community provides the means to live up to our political commitment by becoming a party to the convention, further to its signature in 1998. the proposal for a directive on access to justice aims to implement the third pillar of the århus convention by establishing minimum requirements for access to administrative or judicial proceedings in environmental matters. with its signature of the århus convention, the community undertook to ensure that its requirements would be applied throughout eu territory. this can only be guaranteed by means of an eu-wide instrument with respect to access to justice in environmental matters setting the minimum conditions all member states have to comply with. furthermore, such an instrument will help to improve the implementation of community law, and hence further the effectiveness of community environmental policy. of course, it is important not only for the european community to sign up to the århus convention, but also to cover its own institutions, alongside national authorities, so that they are also bound by its requirements. this is a point that we made clear, even at the negotiation stage. this commitment will fully materialise with the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on the application of the århus convention to the institutions. it is hence not only another element for the implementation of the århus convention, but also crucial for our own credibility as regards member states and internationally. we are, however, not starting from scratch. a number of instruments linked to the good governance process are already in place, and only need to be completed to fully live up to the requirements of the århus convention. i particularly refer to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, and to the commission’s communication of december 2002 establishing general principles and minimum standards for consultation of interested parties by the commission. i commend the proposals to the house and look forward to hearing your comments.
the rapporteur. {fi) mr president, the package of three acts now before us is part of the measures to translate into practical rules the principles agreed by the united nations in rio in 1992. i myself was the rapporteur for parliament on the first two pillars of the aarhus treaty, and now i am the rapporteur on the regulation applying all three pillars to the community institutions and bodies. i am also the rapporteur for the council decision on the ratification of the aarhus convention. first, the regulation. the european parliament was very active in the first two directives implementing the aarhus convention. the final results of the conciliation in both cases very clearly represent the position of parliament and fully meet or even exceed the minimum standards of the aarhus convention. this is now reflected satisfactorily in the commission's proposal for a regulation. the committee has amended the regulation on my proposal, in particular with regard to the exceptions for access to information and the binding rules on the right of citizens to participate. in addition, in order to ensure consistency with the convention and the proposed directive on the right of access, members of the public are given a mandate where their interests or rights are directly affected. i would also like to make a clarification on the text concerning the fees charged for the data provided. in this respect, a distinction should be made between the three main community institutions, namely the european parliament, the council and the commission, on the one hand, and all the other community bodies, on the other. the first three institutions have already taken a general decision not to levy charges, which should of course not be changed as regards environmental data. other bodies may charge a reasonable fee where appropriate. the amendments tabled now also aim to ensure that there is sufficient consistency between the regulation and the proposed directive on appeals. then the directive. the appeals directive is problematic in several ways: firstly, the different fears associated with it in the member states create unnecessary opposition to the whole of the aarhus convention and related community legislation. i believe that this is precisely the reason why ireland, as the presidency, is not willing to take the package now before us on the agenda of its presidency. secondly, it is problematic that the union's powers are more limited in the directive on appeal and the legal system than in the two previous aarhus directives. all this must be taken into account by parliament when it adopts a directive. the result achieved by the committee was a reasonably good one and the amendments tabled by the epp-ed in the plenary seek to ensure that the directive does indeed comply strictly with the aarhus agreement no more, but no less. in so far as the aarhus convention does not provide a clear starting point for the text, a moderate discretion has to be exercised. i would like to raise the definition of a "legitimate entity". the environmental organisations themselves consider that the general criteria adopted by the committee are too stringent for many environmental organisations. i don't agree with you. all in all, it is only a matter of requiring normal procedures in accordance with good organizational practice and recommending procedures in accordance with legal and good customs, which seems reasonable in view of the special role now given to these organizations as guardians of the legality of society. it is also important to bear in mind that there are many different types of ngos, and we cannot be sure of the intentions of all of them. the simple criteria for determining the eligible entity therefore protect the special right now being granted to serious environmental organisations. i hope that environmental organizations will be able to see it from this perspective. on the other hand, if some organisations are too small to meet even these simple criteria on their own, it may even be beneficial for the objective of environmental protection itself to pool expertise and resources rather than acting unnecessarily fragmentarily, at least when using the appeal mechanism. the nature of the minimum directive must also be borne in mind: member states may choose to omit some of the criteria set out but not to add new ones. in this respect, it can be assumed that the directive operates in very different legal systems. i have also clarified the provisions so that foreign associations have an unconditional right to appeal where there is a genuine cross-border environmental impact. the commission's position was not entirely clear in this respect. and the ratification of the treaty. the two århus directives which have already been adopted express parliament's position very clearly. parliament succeeded in tightening up their provisions in relation to the aarhus convention itself. this is partly due to the sometimes deliberately vague and unclear wording of the convention, which was simply intended to ensure that the convention would come into being in 1998. however, such a tradition of international diplomacy cannot be tolerated in the community's precise legislative work. as rapporteur, i hope that parliament will adopt a more ambitious approach where the community has competence, since the incorporation of the environmental convention into community law is different from the drafting of directives based on conventions in other areas, such as land use. in the latter case, the decision is static, whereas environmental legislation should be a dynamic process. environmental policy aims to turn harmful global developments into positive ones, gradually, by drawing on the lessons learned. the convention on the environment should therefore be implemented in a way that can lead to improvements in subsequent revisions of the convention. the eu cannot be satisfied with faithfully replicating internationally agreed minimum standards, but should realistically use all its flexibility and strive to be a leader. this was very successful in the context of the first two pillars of the convention. the remaining parts of the århus package now under consideration seem to be moving in a balanced and positive direction. the whole process of ratification of the aarhus convention can therefore finally begin in the community without undue delay, once the necessary community legislation has been adopted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to concentrate first on the directive on access to justice, on behalf of myself and many of my colleagues. it has been rightly said here today that in many countries the directive is a profound intervention in the legal and administrative systems. there is also reason to question the correctness of the legal basis. it has been interesting to note that the environment committee approved this directive and held back a proposal that we should reject it, by only 17 votes to 16. it is an ideological question for many of us why environmental organizations should have a privileged position compared to other organizations. our request for a special vote on amendment no 40 will allow you to correct this. as recently as last week, commissioner, the events in the north sea showed that fishermen's organisations have the same need, and should have at least the same right, to access to justice as birdlife or other strong international organisations. it is a deep ideological conviction of many of us that other environmental organizations should also have this right. we should not have organizations that are more equal than others. i think that this whole debate has raised the following question: what is the added value of the directive other than to give a deadline for when the aarhus convention should be implemented? we could achieve this deadline by means of a much simpler regulatory framework than the rather complicated situation we have now. as regards the application of the aarhus convention to the community and the correction of the directive which we wish to bring about, we have every opportunity to achieve these objectives through good governance.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to say that we often say in this house that consumers should have the same rights as economic operators and that all parties should be heard. that is what this is about. we are very many people who are strangers to a situation where some organizations are more valuable than others. if so, it would be a small part of orwellian society. finally, i do not think we can share the commission's interpretation that internal review qualified entities would not cause problems in the most successful, progressive countries. that's not true. (the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion. (fi) mr president, the central issue of the directive is the definition of waste in the mining industry, where the waste is either harmless or hazardous. the wording of the few amendments on permanent waste confuses the whole logic and opens up a jungle of endless questions. in the case of the mining industry, non-hazardous waste is really harmless because it is a material that comes from nature. a natural material, a by-product of the earth's crust, which is not harmful to the environment, cannot be considered waste, especially if it is still used as a filling material in mines and quarries, for land reclamation or for road construction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community. the european mining industry brings significant added value to the european union. the economic and social impact of the new mining industry will be crucial, especially in sparsely populated and remote areas. it is not at all a matter of indifference how this industry is treated. telephones, windows, glass, utensils, eating utensils, transportation, construction and so forth all rely on this industry. the question now is whether we want to keep this industry in europe and under our own control, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, or whether we will push it out of the union with too restrictive and unfamiliar legislation, where its environmental issues are beyond our control. it is of the utmost importance that the european union establishes a clear mineral policy which takes account of environmental and economic aspects. i'm looking for another job for the commissioner of competitiveness.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the european council, we can be satisfied for a long time. ireland can be credited with making progress on many difficult issues. finally, it appears that the icrc could reach an agreement on a new constitution. a good basis for a constitutional agreement is a balanced preparatory commission proposal which takes account of the interests of europe as a whole. a lot of water has flowed in the danube since the lisbon action plan was adopted. unfortunately, however, the flows of four years have not brought the union any closer to that ambitious goal, which, in its ambition and in view of the developments of recent years, is already close to the unrealistic five-year plans of brezhnev. on the contrary, any confidence in the ability of eu member states to undertake adequate structural reforms has been lost along the way. what, then, are the much-talked-about structural reforms? the free movement of labour must be safeguarded. the transitional periods for the new member states are an error which should be corrected as soon as possible. the eu budget should not be cut in the next budgetary period, but rather focused on activities that support competitiveness and growth. the implementation of internal market legislation in the member states needs to be strengthened. we must also be careful not to be too detailed and too strict in our regulations. it's often the case that we overrule and underrule. the new chemicals legislation may prove harmful for improving competitiveness. according to the finnish ministry of trade and industry, the proposal would lead to a reduction in gdp of almost 2% in total between 2007 and 2017, both in finland and in other eu countries. does this make sense? the fearless terrorist attacks in madrid have deeply affected not only the spanish people but all of us europeans. unfortunately, the terrorists achieved their goal. this can't happen again. the fight against terrorism is still fraught with problems. we have already said that we will increase the exchange of intelligence between member states after the shocking attacks of 11 september. there is a big difference between what politicians say and what they actually do. we must learn from this. however, in the context of the fight against terrorism, care must be taken not to restrict the fundamental rights and civil liberties of citizens unnecessarily. there is no reason for law-abiding citizens to fear in europe.
(fi) mr president, the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party supports croatia's membership of the european union. it also paves the way for other western balkan countries to join. macedonia has already submitted its application. the liberal group supports croatia in its efforts to prepare for eu membership and to succeed in the accession negotiations. we also note that we expect croatia to cooperate more closely with the hague tribunal. our group calls for a separate vote on paragraph 1 (q) which calls on the member states to ratify the eu-croatia stability and association agreement. some member states have postponed ratification precisely because they were dissatisfied with croatia's cooperation with the hague tribunal. our group believes that they should be able to decide for themselves when to ratify the treaty. the accession of croatia is another step in the enlargement of the european union. when bulgaria, romania, turkey and the five countries of the western balkans join the union, the number of members will already be 33. in the first step towards membership, moldova and ukraine have also been invited to the european conference. the starting point for enlargement is that all european countries fulfilling the conditions for membership can join the union. as enlargement progresses, the eu's wider european and neighbourhood policies will become increasingly important. the european parliament must also do more to tackle these issues. on the other hand, a rapidly enlarging union must differentiate internally by applying the method of closer cooperation. we are gradually creating a europe of common interests through internal dissociation and a wider european policy. finally, i would like to thank mr baltas for the excellent work he has done in drawing up this report. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to thank you. so towards the end of the mandate we should be very polite to each other, and i can say that it is a very good initiative that we are debating the issue of the world bank report. we also know that we have an expert among us, because monica frassoni is a member of the world bank parliamentarians forum. it is therefore entirely right that we should raise this issue and try to coordinate the approach of the eu countries. when we talk about the world bank in general, it seems, unfortunately, that the world bank has some of the worst management of development projects. when i was in niger about a month ago, everyone else in niger had got their work together on the education for all project, but not the world bank. their management is so concentrated it doesn't work. i hope that monica frassoni will also be able to raise this issue in her work with the other world bank parliamentarians. we know that the world bank has experience in this area because it was said long ago that it is the availability of resources of this kind that leads to increased conflicts. that is why we must take the recommendations seriously. they must guide us in granting projects and in taking a stand on different nations and how much we want to help them.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. {\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ the european development fund was created by the member states to help develop the asia, caribbean and pacific regions. at present, all eu member states contribute to the financing, albeit in a slightly different proportion to the budget of the european union. the management of the european development fund is a mess. the fund agreement must be ratified by all eu countries and two thirds of the beneficiary countries. this usually takes years. this has resulted in delays in implementation and fluctuating funding. the eu commission manages the funds, but the acp authorities implement the projects. the problem is the poor management capacity of the recipient countries. parliamentary control is weak. the european parliament grants discharge, but the administration and clearance of accounts are complicated. the result of confusing administration is that the action is not efficient. as each development fund is intended to be used in full, the result is that the residues of previous funds are transferred to subsequent funds. at the same time, the amount of unpaid commitments has increased, reaching eur 11 billion. at the same time, the development of these same countries is supported directly by eu budgetary funds, for example in 2002 with some eur 700 million. these funds shall be managed in accordance with the eu financial regulation. they are introduced in the budgetary process, used by and under the responsibility of the commission, and the accounts are examined under the discharge procedure. it is important for the eu's development cooperation and for the acp countries' own interests that the administration of the edf can be simplified and made more efficient. the commission's initiative to include the european development fund in the eu budget is therefore right. the procedure would simplify and improve administration, stabilise funding and harmonise funding across the eu into a single package. the committee on budgets therefore supports the commission's proposal on this matter.
(fi) mr president, when we consider turkey's possible membership of the european union, we must look at the copenhagen criteria in their entirety. the excellent report by mr oostlander stresses this in a neutral way: it is balanced in my view, it is neither negative nor positive in relation to turkey's possible membership. it is up to turkey to meet, and to meet quickly, the political criteria set for the applicant countries. the european union must decide whether it can absorb any enlargement, i.e. whether its economy and its structures will be able to withstand it. both aspects must be fully considered and cannot and must not be changed by any external pressure. i believe i am speaking at least on behalf of my group's finnish delegation when i say that many aspects are in favour of turkey now being on the road to full membership. in helsinki in 1999, membership was not promised, but turkey was given the right to become a candidate country, which of course raises high expectations in that country. the absorption capacity of the union itself should not be assessed in more detail today, since the ten new member states will be pushing the union's performance to its limits for a decade. while most of the paying countries are keen to reduce budgetary imbalances in the union, turkey itself has a long way to go to meet the copenhagen criteria. i'll just mention two things. until we can be absolutely certain that in turkey representative democracy will in all circumstances command the armed forces and not the other way around, we cannot even think of full membership. secondly, the realisation of religious freedom, so that all religions, acting only as religious communities, have the freedom and the real right to establish congregations and build churches, as eu countries are traditionally happy to allow non-european religions, is a fundamental requirement for membership. we must congratulate mr verheugen, mr kofi annan and the other negotiators on the fact that the cyprus problem, which is still a legal obstacle to today's accession with turkey, is being solved. we all hope that it will be removed quickly with the result of the referendum. in the long term, however, i believe that it would be in the interests of the union to remove the obstacles and to remove turkey from membership. my amendment no 1 and mr elles's amendment no 16 are in my view fully in line with the criteria and do not in any way seek to impede turkey's accession bid. i am of the opinion that amendment no 41 is about excluding turkey from the accession negotiations.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr oostlander for his wise greetings to us, as he always does. the problem with enlargement is that we are going to have a big enlargement from scratch, and it will be much more difficult than previous enlargements, while the union's capacity to receive is weaker than before. the eu is now more demanding and complex, so enlargement is not a machine or an animal, but the most complex creation of man - the european union. but we must treat turkey as fairly as all the other applicant countries, despite the fact that our capacity to receive has been weakened. turkey has made a lot of progress in a short time: new laws promoting civil society and democracy. the position of women and the kurds is now being discussed in public, but i do not have definitive information on the boundary between military and civilian authority, the importance of the position of the military is a very big problem. the copenhagen criteria have not been met, and by that i mean the rule of law and the realisation of human rights. it's still a work in progress. the judiciary is not independent and turkey should sign the rome statute of the international criminal court. we have a familiar problem: we make the right laws and we take a lot of decisions, but the implementation of these laws and the control of their implementation is a big, dark problem which we have not been able to solve, and this is in the hands of the turkish people themselves. can they do that? that's the question this time, and we'll answer it afterwards.
in writing. - (sv) i would like to clarify one point concerning my support for luis marinho's report on more accessible, fairer and more managed asylum systems. i voted in favour of the report, which contains many good points on the future asylum policy of the union. on the other hand, i think that the report is worrying on one point, and i would have liked to have voted against that very point. point 8 of the report means that parliament is now in favour of an exclusionary system which, in the worst case, will lead to immigration policies varying greatly with the current labour market situation in the various member states. although the policy of legal immigration is now inadequate in the member states, i think it is a lack of reflection on the part of parliament as a solution to the problem to develop a more exclusive and narrow policy, based not on humanism and human rights but on the individual needs of the member state's labour market policy, defined by who, may i ask? i would also like to say that i hope that, in relation to paragraph 9 of the same report, the interpretation will be that domestic abuse is also included as a reason. like the grounds mentioned separately in paragraph 9, domestic abuse is also a reason for seeking asylum which must be considered to be justified to the fullest extent.
(fi) mr president, the creation of waste must be prevented both quantitatively and qualitatively, and at the same time the possibilities for the recovery of waste material must be increased so that the amount of waste to be disposed of is as small as possible. the community's approach to waste has been aimed at this for a long time, and this was also the conclusion of our rapporteur, mr florenz's excellent report. the principles of waste prevention and efficient waste treatment and recovery are, however, easily interpreted as mutually threatening. we have organizations which oppose the efficient use of waste because they fear that successful waste management will threaten the principle of prevention. this is madness and ideological rigidity that the world can no longer afford. all means must be used to the last, first preventive, then exploitative, and our politicians must be able to find the system where these objectives do not threaten each other. we're all bad politicians if we can't make the system more rational. the definition of waste plays a crucial role here. the problem is that we have different and often too restrictive definitions of waste, as the large number of cases before the court of justice of the european communities shows. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the definition of the difference between recovery and disposal must be carried out rapidly at the beginning of the next parliamentary term. at present, it seems that, with competition, the improvement of efficiency does lead to efficiency, which in most cases also means eco-efficiency in the use of the material. competition, together with the community legislation already in force, is thus providing a satisfactory guide to the prevention of waste generation; the trend is quite right and needs only to be reinforced. the greatest untapped potential is still in the use of materials and by-products classified as waste in such a way that the use of virgin material is reduced and disposal is not necessary. industrial activities generate large quantities of material whose exact composition is known and which could be considered at source as a separate part of the rest of the waste stream. this makes it easy to exploit and the risks are fully controllable. europe is right to pursue sustainable waste management and this objective cannot be ignored.
(fi) mr president, it seems very likely that the kyoto protocol will not enter into force. yet, under international law, the kyoto protocol binds its signatories for several years. during this period, it cannot be changed, leaving the kyoto process far too static. however, climate change is a real threat and its response should be seen as strong and dynamic. one way is to analyse previous eu policies which have already successfully decoupled economic growth from emissions growth in most sectors. this has been achieved by decentralising action into diverse and effective policies that create momentum and even positive environmental and social spill-overs. these should now be strengthened and extended to other sectors. above all, it should now be applied worldwide. the bonn meeting is the first step. the united nations environment programme should be given adequate powers and decentralised action to combat climate change into actions to promote energy efficiency, renewable energy and clean technologies. this would also create the necessary dynamics for change. such an approach would also open up a new opportunity for the us and russia to join and contribute to reducing greenhouse gases. the un should establish clear global structures for carbon economy and carbon pricing, while strongly promoting market-based incentives to reduce emissions. similarly, the rapid growth of emissions in china and india must be curbed within the un framework. the kyoto targets must be maintained, but the adverse effects of the kyoto process must urgently be recognised and addressed. otherwise, the agreement will be contrary to the objectives of sustainable development. as a forerunner, the eu has shown great courage, but it must also have the courage to admit mistakes if they have been made. in the case of kyoto, the biggest error seems to be related to carbon leakage, which threatens to occur when production is moved to countries not covered by the kyoto targets. the 'polluter pays' principle is thus being transformed into a 'polluter pays' practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the research effort to promote renewables is already disproportionate and parliament is once again ready to increase the minimum share of renewables. and again, most of the renewables come from large hydropower plants, and they're not willing to add more. you can't push the rope, you have to pull it: research is no longer going to help, but global demand would. that is why we must do our best in bonn to bring global demand to the fore.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to mention the proposal on cooperation between consumer authorities, which is very welcome, and i think the rapporteur has done a very good job. it is surprising and regrettable how much energy some in this parliament have devoted to trying to water down this proposal. i cannot imagine a situation in which everyone, except consumers, has rights in the single market. it has been a real pity, but i welcome the proposal and hope that parliament will support the compromise proposal drawn up by mr gebhardt by a large majority. as regards the wuermeling report on consumer credit, i must say that i am glad that we have the debate today and that we have been able to make progress. as previous speakers have said, however, we need improvements, because otherwise there is a risk that the directives will weaken the rights that consumers already have today. earlier we mentioned the real effective rate, and here too i and the liberal group want a broader definition. the right to early repayment must also be improved. i do not think the rapporteur's compromise proposal goes far enough in this respect. i would simply like to refer, as i have done many times in the debate, to the right to number portability in the telecommunications sector, which has given significant rights to consumers. in my country, costs have fallen by 7% in the last year, and i believe that the right to reimbursement has contributed to this in a large way. i also believe that we need better information on credit cards and i think that the exclusion we have in some of the amendments is not really desirable. finally, i believe that solidarity is really needed to develop the internal market and to protect consumers when new products are brought to the market. let me also mention what we have seen in our country. a new low-cost company went bankrupt and only the consumers who had paid by credit card had any kind of protection. it also suggests that consumers need this part as markets develop.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the commission has presented to parliament and the council a draft codecision regulation to ensure free access to gas transmission networks throughout the eu. the commission has therefore used this rigid instrument, the regulation, to ensure access to the gas networks in all member states, particularly for cross-border and intra-national transfers of gas. the draft regulation is based mainly on the work of the so-called madrid forum, in which the various social partners participated. they thought they were preparing a recommendation in the forum to secure access to gas transmission networks on a voluntary basis. some participants in the forum may feel betrayed by the fact that a voluntary commitment has become a mandatory regulation in the commission's proceedings. the madrid forum did not manage to deal with all the details of network access and new legislative acts will be prepared in the future by the committee procedure without consulting the participants in the madrid forum. it is therefore understandable that some market participants are concerned about how their interests will be taken into account in the future. during the committee hearing, the commission representatives expressed the commission's view that the parties to the madrid forum should continue to be consulted in the future when preparing the detailed provisions for implementing the regulation. since the madrid forum is not a legal entity, the commission considers that its consultation cannot be recorded in the text of the regulation. as rapporteur, i think it would be appropriate for such a commitment to consult the various parties to be also recorded in the minutes of the parliament's plenary session. i expect it to be done during the next speech by the commissioner or before the final votes. after many votes, our committee has accepted the view that the adoption of a regulation is justified and that the commission's proposal should in principle be adopted by this parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation in the preparation of this report. although we had our differences and our interests were different, i think we managed to work very well together and to achieve a good result. i look forward to the commissioner's speech, which i hope will confirm the commission's commitment to consulting the parties to the madrid forum in the future.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if access to the electricity market is granted but not to the gas market, competition is distorted. and it is even more distorted if you protect monopolies, which then buy up smaller companies elsewhere in other countries. we need common rules and we need to remove barriers to competition, which of course applies to all member states. i also support mr seppänen's request that the madrid parties be heard. i also believe that the correct legal basis is article 95 as proposed by the commission. i wonder about this change to article 100, which i regard as an extra twist, and i would like to see a return to article 95.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. looks like it's ladies night in here. including the technical possibilities when they are at their greatest is what ecodesign is all about. more than 80% of environmental damage is determined during the manufacturing phase of the product. we have learned that in the course of the examination of this directive. we also know that in the eu we have adopted many rules to eradicate dangerous substances. we have waste management regulations with quantitative targets for recycling and reuse. it is therefore relatively natural that we have placed a certain emphasis on energy consumption when the proposal was discussed in committee. i would like to emphasize this because it seems that there has been some rather strong criticism of our work in emphasizing the energy aspect. this is at a time when we are still experiencing a sharp increase in energy consumption in most parts of europe and many member states are having difficulty in achieving the kyoto targets. it is therefore important that we have new tools to save energy. in my own country, the latest data is that we will exceed the co2 emission quota in the years 2005-2007 by 14%. criticism has also been directed at the so-called top runner approach that we use here. however, i think there are many misunderstandings about what we mean. we want the leading and best technology as a reference framework for future implementation measures. it provides a framework for the decision but does not exclude anyone from the market. on the contrary, i believe we have a system that allows for continuous improvement. the report is also criticised for not taking account of the three pillars of sustainable development. we must give priority to the environment at the expense of social and economic issues. that criticism is wrong, and i think that a study of what we say about life-cycle thinking and our support for smes speaks for itself. we see the economic issues, we see the social issues and we see opportunities, but also risks. as the commissioner has also said, taking environmental issues into account in advance is ultimately more cost-effective than many other environmental management methods, such as subsidies and, unfortunately, labelling. it has turned out that we get quite a bit for the money through subsidies at the intervention stage. i would also point out that, as in the past when we discussed the green paper on integrated product policy, we have also supported measures for smes. we also call on the commission to set up a database to make it easier for all companies to integrate life cycle thinking and eco-design into their business operations. this is an innovative concept. it is a wide field of application, but it is really an organized framework of rules for how we are to proceed, how we are to choose what is important and how we are to set the requirements for the future, that is, the model for good governance. no one in this house has protested that in future the european parliament should not decide how much energy a product may consume. on the contrary, we say that it should be decided where the expertise is, which i think is an important simplification that we are proposing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. unfortunately, although i did not quite understand what the commissioner said at the end, i do not think that this parliament will be able to reach at least an agreement with the council during this debate, and that means that we are losing some time. we would have liked to move faster, and we want the directive to include a work plan for products which account for 40% of co2 emissions. we want to move quickly, because we feel that a lot of time has been lost. i would like to thank my colleagues for the good cooperation they have shown in the preparation of this report. i would like to thank you for the understanding you showed when i took over from mr ries, who became minister for europe in belgium. i would also like to thank the commission for its goodwill in reaching a rapid agreement with the council. i also think that we have been very united, and that has been a great strength. we still differ on a few minor points, for example on the legal basis and the assessment of conformity, but we must not let the details obscure the fact that we have been in agreement. parliament wants to see rapid success and the necessary measures to be implemented quickly. i hope that the council and parliament, with the new members who will be elected after us, will be able to reach an agreement quickly on this so that we do not have any further delay in these important measures.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. as the commissioner said, it is indeed time to conclude the long-term work we have been doing together for better maritime safety. we have you to thank for that, but we also have our colleague dirk sterckx to thank for an excellent report. in the future, i feel it would be very good if the commission had a study to look at where the loopholes are. it's a feeling i had after the erika package. we noticed that there were new holes, like in an emmentaler cheese, that had been exploited. i sometimes get the feeling that we think we're making progress, but new holes are opening up. i'd like us to take a look at these holes before another disaster strikes. we have tried to do this in part in the report, but i think we need further expertise in this area. i am glad that you mentioned enlargement and russia and i think that this report is a historic report from the point of view of the baltic sea. never has a report from the european parliament mentioned the baltic sea as much as this report. thank you to all colleagues for this. the international character is very much in evidence and you make it clear in your speech, mrs palacio, what you intend to do. i noted with interest that the single hulls must be phased out for russia by 1 may 2005. i would like you to elaborate a little more on what you said on this point. i believe that the work of the working group considering changes to the international compensation regime has been left without sufficient attention. we know that the working group will meet in may and that spain, france and the commission have submitted a proposal. i think that the proposal to remedy the shortcomings in liability insurance and in liability throughout the shipping chain would deserve more attention here in parliament. i would like us to think a little more carefully about whether we want the european system we are calling for or whether we should think even more about this working group within the iopc to see what can be done there. finally, i hope that we will work together to establish concrete rules for the success of the pssa area which was classified. it was a success in london that we got the new pssa area but we need to be able to define what this means. at the same time, i would like the commission, when it evaluates the emergency port plans in general, to take a position on paragraph 14 of the report on whether emergency ports should be public or not. it is a guide which is needed in the member states because there has been quite a lot of discussion on this issue.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to thank the rapporteur for his resolute work. the proposal has an important objective of improving road safety and the inspection activities must be effective in order to provide sufficient scope for full compliance. the important thing is that the rules are applied in the same way throughout the eu to avoid distortions of competition. however, the inspection activity must not be made too burdensome for the transport sector. it is important to take into account the point of view of drivers and contractors. moreover, when monitoring resources are limited, it is most important to focus them where they will produce the most results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, we do not see the need to require that at least 50% of the checks be specifically targeted at small firms. in particular, with enlargement, diversity is growing and differences in circumstances must be left to their own devices. we therefore support safety and efficiency, but also the need to take account of the point of view of transport operators and drivers in practical action.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for conducting the meeting in such a brilliant way. the eldr group is extremely satisfied with the outcome of the vote. we have addressed some of the things that had prevented the banking sector from developing, but at the same time we have maintained very important aspects of consumer protection and developed it too. i think we have created a directive which will allow more crossborder trade in europe in the future. i know that some would have liked to vote for the provisions on mortgage credit, but i hope and ask the commission to put forward a proposal on this very difficult point. i thank the president for allowing me to speak and for the excellent way in which you conducted the meeting.
the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has drawn up an opinion. (fi) mr president, i thank the committee on budgets and mr wynn on behalf of my committee for having taken very well into account the views of our committee in the future financial framework. the key to cohesion policy is that it is financed at 0.45% of gdp, especially in view of the enlargement challenge. the resources must also be made available for the development of the most deprived regions of the present member states. i also welcome the fact that the report calls for a review of the compatibility of state aid policy with the regional development objective. this was a key message from our committee as well. the message from parliament on simplification of administration and monitoring of implementation is clear. the draft report also makes a good point of emphasizing the need to support regions with specific problems. as a representative of a sparsely populated area, i wholeheartedly support it.
the committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport has adopted an opinion. (fi) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for having taken the opinion of the committee on culture into account. i also thank the commission for its emphasis on education, culture and youth in the building of an enlarged europe. the commission deserves our full support. the exchange programmes are a success story. in future, more emphasis will have to be placed on ensuring that they are also available to those with limited means. the cultural industry is a growing sector that needs investment. it is not appropriate to forget the wider role of culture in sustainable growth and increasing mutual understanding. i am glad that the report emphasizes the simplification of the administration of cultural and educational programmes. i hope that the committee on budgets will not, on the other hand, create legislation which complicates the procedure.
(fi) mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr wynn on his balanced report. at the same time, i would like to thank you for the constructive work that you, terence, have done as chairman of the committee on budgets. your working methods have been friendly and constructive, which has resulted in harmonious and effective work in the committee. the value of the financial perspective presented by the commission depends on the future competence of the budgetary authorities. if the outcome is that the financial perspective creates a commonly agreed framework in which parliament can participate fully in the preparation of the budget, the financial perspective has great value. if, on the other hand, the eu budget is reduced to a collection of smaller appropriations in the future, as the finance ministers recently put it, this does not bode well for the coherence of budgetary policy in the coming years. the reform of the financial perspective presented by the commission is in the right direction. the number of headings has been reduced. however, the first heading is unnecessarily large compared to the others, so that it might be justified to divide it in two. the same applies to the question of putting the agricultural and environmental budgets under the same heading. the priorities for future policy are right. the eu's competitiveness is only enhanced by promoting entrepreneurship and investing in research, product development and training. the current appropriations are to be tripled in seven years. my group supports this trend. in particular, we must invest in training and in the exchange of trainees so that we have more educated and internationalised young people who can take responsibility for their intellectual and material development in the future. the second important priority is cohesion policy. the promotion of cohesion is essential now that we have new member states with a gdp of only 5% of the gdp of the old member states, despite a population of 20%. the eu's key objectives include promoting economic, social and regional equality. the eu's bureaucracy is vast and threatens not only its efficiency but also, and especially, its public image. the commission has therefore decided to reduce bureaucracy and increase the efficiency of its administration. power and responsibility must be distributed downwards and personal responsibility clarified.
(fi) mr president, on behalf of my group i too would like to thank mr hatzidakis for the excellent preparation of this report. i also thank the commission for drawing up its proposal on the basis of what parliament has previously called for. our group supports the commission's line, the adequate financial contribution to cohesion policy, the clarifications to state aid policy and the fact that regional policy is not being renationalized and that regions with persistent difficulties, islands, less-favoured regions and mountainous areas and statistical areas are treated in a special way. however, an effective regional policy requires that, in addition to aid policy, other policies support its regional development objectives. a certain degree of freedom of action, also in the case of state aid, is necessary in regional development without jeopardising or distorting competition. i am pleased that progress is being made in simplifying administration. member states are given responsibility for good practice. it is particularly important to maintain the good practices we have learned from the leader, urban and equal community initiatives. a certain territoriality and an understanding of the user's perspective are more than necessary to justify the eu's actions.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr garriga polledo, for his excellent report. next year's budget will be difficult, the eu will be enlarged by ten new member states, bringing with them nine new official languages. this will put the eu administration to a very hard test. the new member states must be involved in the eu's joint action. this means that they must also get a fair share of the staff and officials of the various eu institutions. this is a huge recruitment and training mission. the commission's request for 700 new measures is justified, even though it is a considerable number. at the same time, however, care must be taken not to bureaucratize the administration. the shift of responsibility and power downwards must continue, as must the clarification of personal responsibility. management needs to move more towards performance-based management, where efficiency is paramount. particular emphasis should be placed on improving internal security. this will require, among other things, an intensified fight against drugs and other international crime and illegal immigration. this will put pressure on heading 3 of the budget, 'internal policies'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the structure of the budget, its informative nature must be developed. the budget must clearly reflect the costs and achievements of each policy area. parliamentarians must be able to see clearly what has been achieved or can be achieved with eu money.
mr president, commissioner, i have a proposal for this because i see the problem that my colleague has raised. could the issue of protecting people's privacy now be integrated into the operational picture of the legitimate information security agency, with the agency monitoring developments in the field and then suggesting whether or not legislation is needed? it would be a professional authority that would do this at the european level. could this be possible?
i must say, mr president, commissioner, that i am not at all satisfied with this old-fashioned, totally out of date answer. firstly, mobile communications are precisely cross-border communications, which include products offered by different media companies, which therefore move across the borders of the european union. this is what we call roaming policy. such a circumvention cannot be participated in by such answers. on the contrary, these companies are so large that they operate across europe and provide content that is in very centralized hands. i could name such companies, but the commissioner might also be able to think of some. this is the threat of today, and it's not just printed communications. how could you possibly respond to this modern communication in a way that would allow you to intervene?
(fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner patten, my group, the ppe-de, takes the view that good and close relations between the eu and the united states, and more generally, as has been repeated here, between europe and north america, are a key factor in maintaining global peace and economic growth. a permanent conflict between these two world's greatest economic and military powers - unlikely as it is - would be disastrous on a global scale. that is why our group, in any political or economic disagreement that arises, seeks to look ahead and seek solutions, not to point fingers. of course, we have many concerns. we cannot accept the unilateralism of the us administration, which includes the war in iraq and its aftermath, and the policy of the bush administration, which we believe has recently been directed only at the interests of israel. but the way to remedy these issues is not to withdraw from the framework agreement between israel and the eu or to blame the united states. we must strive to find a return to diplomacy, where the multilateralism of world politics and the use of the un, with its added authority, are the starting point for resolving crises. the good signs of this are already visible in the attitude of the united states towards the future administration of iraq under un supervision. the eu's role in the peace process is to help the palestinians to find a way to return to their homeland. we also disagree on many issues relating to trade policy and intellectual property rights, for example the unilateral application of the concept of dumping by the united states, which is not compatible with good trade practice but with protectionism. under the skilful leadership of commissioner pascal lamy, the eu has sought to remove obstacles to the acceleration of the wto doha round. the united states is a good partner in these negotiations, but it is also an obstacle in its own right, with its own agricultural and industrial subsidies. i don't mean that the blame is always somewhere else, not on us. we must also open up our markets more in this respect. once again, problems are solved through dialogue, not escalating trade war. i would also like to emphasize that the values - as has been said here many times - on which both continents are building - including canada's future - democracy, individual freedoms and rights, human rights, a society based on the rule of law, a market economy with freedom of enterprise, are such a broad basis for the development of natural, lasting and good relations between us that the apparent conflicts of interests are certainly reconcilable. the speakers in our group will undoubtedly be following me to discuss many details of transatlantic relations.
(fi) mr president, as regards the changed substance, we support its adoption, despite some understandable limits of emphasis on details. but at the same time i would like to draw attention more generally to a practice which has been scandalous this time. human rights must not be held hostage by the short-sighted, often media-driven politics of the day. the implementation of these measures therefore requires both political choices and political influence. they have intrinsic value. human rights work requires a systematic, long-term and consistent prioritisation of problems, both thematic and geographical, based on a global approach and their own logic. we welcome the report's overview of today's human rights work. but at the same time, we must look to the future. if we are not able in the future to coordinate and align better the internal and external monitoring of human rights in the eu, if we are not able to tighten up the monitoring of ex post facto and to put aside irrelevant political motives and hidden agendas, we will leave a poor legacy for the next parliament. only if we get our own house in order in this way can we credibly demand that the member states and the council dissociate themselves from trade policy and other narrow interests and create a coherent and lasting policy. in this sense too, human rights begin at home, and that is what is at stake here above all else.
(fi) mr president, thank you for the excellent report. free, independent and diverse mass media is a fundamental right. it is even more important in the information society, where information is the most important factor of production. it's good to remind china, but we have problems right in our midst. information is a big industry that controls governments, nations; it fills people's minds with so much that more important things would not fit there. we are all familiar with the brutal political influence of the big media owners. the italian people have become a perpetual movement: a huge economic power has bought the media, which in turn legitimises political power. there's a new danger in the air. in france, too, big companies buy media to protect themselves, and then they are beyond criticism. why do we not intervene when we intervene in human rights violations? this is a violation of the right to information, which is a fundamental right in the information society of mankind.
deputy rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr sterckx, could not be present in strasbourg this evening and i shall be taking the floor in his place. the new railway safety directive aims to harmonise the regulatory structure of the member states and to develop common safety objectives and methodologies in europe. the aim of harmonisation is to reduce the obstacles to the completion of the trans-european rail network. the proposal defines the key elements of common safety systems, establishes a common system for the issuing of safety certificates and lays down the principle of independent technical investigations in the event of accidents. the agreement was reached on 10 march and ratified by parliament's delegation and the conciliation committee on 16 march. the agreement states that member states agree to keep the presentation of national safety rules to a minimum. this will only deepen the objective of applying european rules. the commission's powers to examine new national rules were tightened. the commission was empowered to suspend the application of a national rule where there is a serious doubt that the proposed safety rules are not compatible with european rules. the commission may also act if it considers that the rule constitutes an artificial discrimination or a disguised restriction on rail transport operations between member states. member states are obliged to ensure access to training for drivers and train crew on safety-related tasks. in order to allow these staff members to move between railway undertakings, it has been agreed that drivers, train crew on safety-related tasks and infrastructure managers are entitled to see all their certificates of competence and to obtain copies thereof. this new directive is a major step towards the creation of a safe european railway system and establishes a clear regulatory framework for the gradual implementation of the system. the european railway agency, which is also a key element of this railway package, will play a key role in the implementation, monitoring, development and harmonisation of the system. the agreement reached in the conciliation committee fully reflects parliament's second reading position. all in all, this railway package is a major step forward in the liberalisation of rail transport. we need efficiency, safety and quality of service on the railways. otherwise, it will not be able to compete on an equal footing with other modes of transport. with better railway performance, we will bring ever greater benefits to users and achieve sustainable development in transport.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, in your speech you mentioned finland, sweden and denmark as such european social models. the good social conditions in these countries are largely based on high levels of taxation, including corporate tax, capital tax and labour tax. this will create a functioning public service. the common task now is to prevent tax competition, which then forces us to undermine the foundations of these european welfare states, for example. this european prosperity is also based on the tripartite agreements - we heard that there are problems in some countries - on good labour market relations, on negotiation, on the creation of long-term agreements and, therefore, on balanced growth. we must also ensure that this future service directive, which will be discussed by the parliament elected after the june elections, does not contribute to the dumping that was discussed here, but introduces regulations and laws for the employment sector. environmental protection also creates growth and stability. we really need to make sure that we are generating sustainable growth in a way that also looks to the future. short-term gains are not the way to build the european union. we must have sustainable growth, with the environment at its very core.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in speeches we say that we are all minorities in the eu. the point of this is that no one can put themselves on any other group. monitoring minority rights was a very important part of the enlargement negotiations, although there is no policy on linguistic minorities in the eu. we have demanded more from the applicant countries than from the former member states. the situation in cyprus after the referendum also showed recently that we need minimum standards for the treatment of ethnic and linguistic minorities and for the rights that should exist. it is therefore important that the constitution be adopted with respect for diversity and that the eu accede to the council of europe convention on human rights, but also to the council of europe conventions on minorities, both the framework convention and the charter of regional languages. this would give the eu a quick benchmark for minority policy. violations of minority rights should be dealt with under article 7 of our present treaty. the rights of a member state would then be suspended in the event of a violation of the rights of minorities. it is now time for the eu to step up and fully recognise and have a real strategy for respecting linguistic diversity.
(fi) mr president, while i congratulate the enlarged commission, i would like to ask again the same fundamental question to which my colleagues have already referred. we, the women of the european union, are concerned about the future of gender equality. we know that 14% of the representatives of the new member states are now women. we do not know the composition of the next parliament or the next commission, but i am hardly wrong in predicting that the present 31% representation of women in parliament will be a step backwards. how does the commission ensure that equality remains one of our fundamental values in the union? in this breakthrough and transitional phase, should there be a commissioner for equality? i would like to thank the interpreters for their kind words, and for the fact that this may be the last time we meet.
in writing. - (fi) in principle, it is good to have a critical attitude if there is to be a continuous change of commissioners. however, we cannot accept a procedure whereby finland, after erkki liikanen's departure, will be placed in a worse position than other countries which have already replaced their commissioners. it is also a question of what is legal, that is to say, compliance with the provisions of the treaty. under the treaty, the post of commissioner can only be vacant following a unanimous decision by the council.
mr president, mr barroso, we all know that the eu is facing major challenges in this five-year period. what is needed now is leadership and competence, and i know that mr barroso represents these very things - leadership and competence. the choice of mr barroso is also, and above all, a good way of reflecting the outcome of the european elections in this european democracy. he also represents small member states and peripheral regions, which is a great signal to the outside world. however, we must remember that our work must be centred on the people, not on parties or institutions. we must therefore continue our work to bring the union closer to its citizens. above all, the new commission must focus on increasing economic prosperity, creating new jobs and improving competitiveness in line with the lisbon strategy. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. we need a strong europe, but above all a europe that works. by electing mr barroso, this parliament is showing the citizens of europe that democracy is also working in an enlarged eu and that the union's institutions are able to work together to move things forward. mr barroso, the finnish press has described the task of the commission president as the most difficult job in europe, or perhaps in the world. i am sure that this is true, but i know that you will be doing it with honor, and i wish you success, patience and new ideas in the face of difficult challenges. i am sure that this house will give you strong support tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, mr barroso, it is a pleasure to hear you make your presentation. we could hardly have found a more competent and qualified candidate. de keyser said you were a very good opportunist. we need a commission president who knows how to seize opportunities and use the windows of opportunity when they are open. we need an independent, autonomous and active president of the commission. i believe you are just such a man. i am glad that you come from a small member state. i would like to assure my colleagues that barroso will be a strong commission president who is also able to listen to parliament. the european parliament has already been consulted on this last week, when you declared yourself the joint chairman of all europeans. it is important that the outcome of the european elections should be reflected in the choice of the president of the commission, as we have been calling for in the epp and in our group. we are not talking in vain, but we are stating our objectives honestly and we are implementing them, as we have done in this case. i am convinced that the unanimous candidate of the council has an excellent chance of taking on a strong role as president of the commission. independent commissioner elections are a good start. i also believe that during your term of office you will continue to develop the transatlantic relations which are very important to us europeans. the rapid ratification of the constitutional treaty by the member states is also one of europe's main challenges. this must be the number one common goal of all of us europeans who love europe and our countries. we must increase our competitiveness so that we can achieve employment and economic growth. without it, we cannot ensure a prosperous and secure europe for all its citizens. a functioning and efficient internal market is at the heart of this. the liberalisation of the internal market has resulted in more than 2.5 million jobs and more than eur 800 billion in added wealth for europeans since 1993. there is no alternative to the liberalisation of the internal market. for example, the financial services action plan has created a european financial single market, which will make markets more efficient and generate more growth. the citizens' europe has been much talked about and is certainly something worth pursuing. how could we create it? the credibility of europe depends on how its citizens perceive the union's actions. let us only take decisions at european level where there is a clear added value for the citizens of the european union. already our citizens value the single currency, the euro, and the freedom of movement that justify the union as a whole. in future we could also use the principle of less regulation and more implementation and control. the commission, which monitors implementation, can of course help the member states to see the forest through the trees. the commission must use its increased human resources to improve enforcement and to put the member states in the right track. we are counting on you, mr president of the commission.
mr president, mr barroso, the policy you have pursued in portugal has frightened many of us. there are reasons for everything, from the iraq war to the breaking of social security. but now you have declared here that you are committed to a very different policy, and that is where the credibility problem arises. we want a social europe, otherwise the peoples will not trust us and will not follow us. do you want to be competitive against the united states and china by these methods which work there: america uses its competitiveness for weapons, sometimes even for war, and often forgets its poor, while china's competitiveness is based in part even on human rights violations? my question to you today, mr barroso, is: do you want to abandon this method and lean towards the european social market economy, which is our aim and our purpose? our problem in the next vote is to maintain this credibility. if you create a new europe with a different policy than in your own country, then you may succeed, but without that we will often find ourselves in conflict here after this.
i would also like to thank mr de palacio, vice-president of the commission. i can really sign off on everything he said here, especially on priorities. 2005 is also an important year and we must find a new found trust between citizens and this decision-making process. this trust is created by focusing on priorities, on what is important, and by focusing on results. the number one priority is security, as has been the case here in the discussions and decisions on border security and the fight against terrorism. but we must also focus on the safety of our neighbours, the safety of the immediate environment of each person. i'm sure that's what the american people want. of course, all these things are connected. secondly, sustainable development is an important issue. we must decide how to maintain the conditions for industrial activity while taking account of environmental protection. the combination of these two things is very important in the future if we are to remain competitive and also preserve the environment. the lisbon agenda is an important issue, but it requires concrete action. we need results in employment policy in terms of competitiveness, but above all these are linked to economic policy and budgetary discipline, which was well spoken about just now. we must set an example here to the national parliaments and national governments in maintaining budgetary discipline. we each have our own priorities and we want to see increases in the budget, but in this way the budget is bloated and economic policy is out of control. discipline must be maintained, and it is through priorities that it is done. we commit ourselves to doing certain things and not doing others, but we have only a limited amount of resources at our disposal. a good and sustainable economy, i was happy to hear that, but i think that a good and sustainable economy in europe requires that the growth and stability pact be maintained. it must not be abolished or changed for the worse, but at least it must be preserved and it must be ensured that it is also observed in the same way in every country. this is what builds trust, not the quietly breaking agreements that have been agreed together before. next year will be an important year, because it will be a whole year in which a whole new parliament and an enlarged europe will be at work. these priorities are the means by which we can show the public that things are going well and that this is a basic condition for us to be able to continue our work. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, today the european parliament adopted, as is the custom, an amending budget which will reimburse the member states eur 5.5 billion in eu contributions paid in 2003. the commission has had at its disposal the sum of euros mentioned, which it did not use in the way intended by the budgetary authority. the commission was an under-performer in 2003. the commission has been an under-hander in the years before. the commission will be a under-performer again next year. it is known that next year too the budget will not be used up and that the member states will be reimbursed for the membership fees paid to the eu treasury in the autumn. who is to blame when the budget adopted by the council and the european parliament is not fully implemented? the commission has also been called upon to take action to combat the problem of the lack of use of the structural funds. not all member states prepare their programmes in the right way and according to the right timetable. the commission is the one to blame for the other budget headings. the commission is unable to implement the budget in full either because of political unwillingness or organisational shortcomings. the preparation of the next year's budget of the union is thus in many respects a three-way contest. the commission is presenting appropriations which it is not willing or able to use. the council is happy to see savings if they are not directed at its priorities. the european parliament is fighting against the ceilings or caps for each category in the financial framework. but everyone knows that there is actually more money than is needed and that it is then returned to the member states. our group is critical of the cuts in other appropriations in the external action heading to the council's priority area of reconstruction in iraq. this means that other priorities which parliament considers important are not implemented. iraq is a new excuse for not fully implementing next year's budget, which parliament will be adopting. the objective of some countries of having a budget deficit of 1% of gross national income is thus being achieved. this budget is a step in that direction.
mr president, the european union's budget proposal for 2005 is the first to cover the union of 25 member states for the whole year. it can be said that the enlarged eu is entering into its established patterns of activity. it is also the first budget of this parliament and of the commission to be appointed, and so it reflects the whole nature of the new eu. the budget for payments amounts to eur 105 billion, or 0.99% of gni, which is some eur 9 billion below the financial perspective. so, the show is very tight. this has been achieved by cutting eur 1 billion from agricultural expenditure and eur 3 billion from structural funding, which must be considered as questionable. the budget has now been drawn up again on an operational basis. this will increase budgetary transparency. at the same time, it clarifies personal responsibility for administration and facilitates comparisons of the efficiency of different areas of administration. this is a great liberal improvement and it shows that major reforms can also be made within the eu. the biggest problem for the eu budget is still the unpaid commitments, or rals. unpaid commitments will reach eur 112 billion by the end of this year, most of which will be for the structural funds. for example, last year, eur 8 134 million of the payment appropriations budgeted for the structural funds was not used. this means that in the years to come an increasing proportion of structural funding will be used to pay off old commitments. finally, i would like to say that this budget proposal which the council has put forward will require considerable adjustment in parliament.
mr president, the commission has done a very good job with the european year of physical education and sport. a number of projects have been launched, particularly in the field of education and training for young people. now this new legal basis for sport, presented by the convention, is also being put into the context of education policy. what concrete new elements would a new constitutional treaty bring to the fight against doping? what projects could the commission propose and take forward that are not possible under the current constitutional treaty? could you give some examples?
mr president, we must express our deepest condolences to the victims and the families of the beslan. we have to help these people, communities all over russia and beslan and the surrounding areas. there is nothing more savage and senseless than the deliberate destruction of vulnerable mothers and children. we cannot be neutral in the face of this kind of terrorism. it threatens the rule of law, democracy, civil rights, our foundations. the whole world has come to realize that this has gone too far. i led a parliamentary delegation to chechnya last year. parliament stressed that the conflict in chechnya could not be resolved by military means. the russian government has announced that it is doing so. the fight against terrorism cannot be fought by means which reduce democracy, civil rights and equality. the background to terrorism is social policy and the cure for it is social policy. it will not be achieved by weapons or by further concentration of power. europeans are seeing that russia's chechen policy has failed. it is difficult to see how further concentration of power in the kremlin would help us to understand this policy. we have so far supported the policy of stability and democracy that putin is pursuing, and we hope that these tragic events will not lead us to rethink and change our policy towards russia, which is now itself a victim. i hope that we will find ways with the russian leadership to make russia live up to the words it has publicly declared and which we can therefore wholeheartedly support. we have this in common.
mr president, i will speak in both finnish and swedish. i would like to make three points. firstly, i am very positive about this constitutional agreement. it is a considerable improvement on the nice treaty, the amsterdam treaty and all previous treaties. it makes the eu more democratic, clearer and more effective. secondly, the adoption of this treaty is the responsibility of all the institutions. it is the responsibility of the commission, it is the responsibility of the council and it is the responsibility of the european parliament. if the agreement fails in one country, it fails in the whole union, which is not in our interests.
commission. mr president, the next conference of the parties to the convention on the international trade in endangered species – cites – has a very full agenda. however, i am pleased to inform you that preparations in council have proceeded smoothly and we have already reached a consensus. in doing so, our position on some high-profile issues has evolved. for example, we are now leaning in favour of the proposal to outlaw commercial trade in the irrawaddy dolphin. cites has been in force for nearly 30 years and has proved a very effective tool in reducing the threats to wild fauna and flora posed by unsustainable international trade. since its entry into force, other agreements relating to biodiversity have been adopted, most notably the convention on biological diversity. one of the community's strategic objectives is to achieve greater synergies between these agreements, thereby contributing to a significant reduction in the rate of loss of biological diversity by 2010, as endorsed at the world summit on sustainable development. the community also believes that cites should remain a vehicle for the sustainable use of wild fauna and flora. increased protection is often required to safeguard the conservation status of some species in trade, but we must also acknowledge the efforts of those countries that have already implemented effective conservation measures. for this reason, we have to consider seriously the proposals for easing trade restrictions on some species, such as the christmas orchid from colombia, black and white rhinos, the leopard, and so on. cites is a science-based convention, as has already been underlined, and sets out detailed criteria for determining the level of protection that should apply to individual species. the community supports this science-based approach and therefore is hesitant about the proposals concerning the african lion and endemic reptiles. finally, the community wishes to maximise the efficiency of cites by minimising unnecessary administrative burdens. while we must avoid illegal or unsustainable trade, we should also ensure that parties' resources are directed towards issues of real conservation concern.
mr president, the resolution on the cites convention is an important step in the preparations for cop 13. i agree with its recommendations. by classifying protected species into different categories for commercial exploitation, the convention provides a sufficiently versatile tool for managing the problems. the proposal now before us will tighten protection in some cases and relax it in others. both gestures are appropriate and justified and tell a balanced, scientific point of view. a few animal-protection icons, such as a classic, the bald eagle, are being moved from a total ban to a strictly controlled trade. this can be interpreted as an encouraging sign that being an icon has been useful. certain species have gone on to recover under protection. scientific evidence is a sound starting point the contents of the annexes may be tightened or loosened if scientific evidence indicates the need for this. rigidity is not an intrinsic value, sustainable development is an intrinsic value. but it's important that the loosening be harder than the blackmailing. the reason is that there are invaluable chips at stake, living nature that cannot be recovered if lost. it is therefore essential that the precautionary principle should continue to be mentioned as a guiding principle. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. but now we need a word. although the scope of cites is limited to trade, perhaps its analysis could also serve as a model for other international environmental agreements. at the same time, the concerns raised by the resolution should be recalled and more attention should be paid to monitoring implementation. unfortunately, the eu is one of the largest markets for illegal trade in wildlife.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, defending the lisbon strategy in difficult economic and political times is a big deal. i would also like to remind you of the reform of the telecommunications sector: it is a huge package of legislation which has brought us back, for example, in terms of regulations in the world and in terms of competitiveness with the united states. monopolies and duopolies have been broken up for the benefit of consumers and users, which is important. this has been a great achievement. we have also achieved a lot in the field of energy. we are now getting and building transeuropean energy networks. each of us understands how important it is for safety and consumer friendliness. we should take even greater care of those people who, when the borders are lowered, are left on the wrong side of our internal borders. the deepening of the frontiers between knowledge and society is a fact. enlargement is a great thing, and it is now bearing fruit in our own midst, in equality and justice, and it will also radiate beyond europe. i would therefore say that discrimination on grounds of sex, for example, by the commission is an impossible idea and that this parliament cannot deal with such a commission.
mr president, mr solana, we want the region to be completely demilitarised, we want russia to withdraw from the region. makes you wonder what kind of peace the americans are building by training georgian soldiers there and who the hell is the pipeline project heating up right now. the european union teaches the rule of law, not the shooting, and this distinction must always be made clear to our friends. the elections held were a good example of progress. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the situation is actually out of everyone's hands, including the russians in russia and especially on the border. this is our big problem, and it's going to keep going and it's going to be hard to stop. it is good that georgia, armenia and azerbaijan are included in our neighbourhood policy, but it is not enough. so i think the key here is the relationship between georgia and russia. i will . from you, the high representative: you will meet president putin shortly will you bring up georgian-russian relations when you meet him?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to extend my greetings to the commission. the establishment of a data protection commissioner is a right and necessary measure. the supplementary budget proposal before us is a matter of routine, which we must accept as proposed by mr gill. i would remind the commission that it should take more vigorous action than it is now to launch the agency as soon as the chemicals legislation is adopted. the european council has decided to set up a chemicals agency. however, it will not be operational in time unless preparatory action is taken to launch the reservation of space and other establishment activities in helsinki more rapidly than has now been done in setting up the data protection commissioner's office. it has been surprisingly delayed. the number of agencies has already increased from seven to 23 in this millennium, and just as the data protection commissioner's office is now being set up in greece, the promise to finland must also be credibly implemented.
mr president, commissioner reding, sport alone is not equipped to deal with the problem of doping, so cooperation with the states and, once the constitutional treaty has been ratified, with the european union is needed. the role and action of the states and the european union are particularly important in order to be able to effectively prevent the illicit manufacture, import, export and distribution of doping substances. legislative cooperation to prevent the spread of doping substances and cooperation between authorities are the means by which the european union is able to effectively tackle and prevent the problem of doping in sport and, at the same time, other doping-related abuses. states should also ensure adequately in their own legislation that the disseminators of doping substances are subject to adequate sanctions. in fact, no uniform legislative measures should be taken or planned to criminalise the use of doping substances, since the matter is not in this sense comparable to drugs, although there are similar features in the surrounding area. the world anti-doping agency (wada) coordinates and develops the global fight against doping in sport. the european union should play an active role in supporting wada's activities. the international olympic movement has been quite strongly involved in the administration of wada, but the role of the states has been weaker. the joint efforts and efforts of the member states of the european union should allow for a balanced participation of states in wada and thus create more effective opportunities for wada to operate. the european union is also working on a global anti-doping convention in sport. the european union should actively monitor the preparation of the agreement and coordinate the views of the member states. the issue of doping is often a prominent part of the media coverage of sporting events. however, we must maintain proportionality in this matter. as in any other part of society, there are and always will be those within sport who do not follow the common rules. however, we must do everything we can to promote a clean sporting and physical culture in the european union. sport is a positive thing that promotes people's health and well-being.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the price of oil is now even cheaper than it was in the early 1980s, but it has not taught us to save. the price of fuel is showing the dollar moving, the dollar moving right now. why not indicate these prices in euro, as mr karlsson has suggested in his report? unfortunately, the epp overturned the backstop a year ago in this very room. have these energy problems in the united states and europe awakened us? the unstable situation in africa, the middle east and russia has caused problems in oil supply. in addition to us, the united states, japan, china and india are competing for russian oil. we need to make sure we have fuel. member states should prepare for long-term price peaks by means of temporary tax solutions, large emergency stocks, which we need, new sources of energy, and reducing and improving consumption. the report by mr karlsson was rejected and parliament asked the commission to draw up a new proposal on the subject. when does the commission intend to make this proposal? of course, we must reduce our dependence on oil and develop new sources of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in oil prices has undeniable effects on the european economy, agriculture and fisheries. it's hard to find a more timely subject. we have heard today, for example, from farmers in france who are making it difficult to process and store oil, and who are demanding, in the french fashion, full tax exemption for fuel used in agriculture. the worsening of the labour dispute in the norwegian oil industry is also a recent development, and has raised the price of crude oil in the nordic countries. historically, the current price of oil, over $55 a barrel, is well above the $40 level that has been seen as significantly slowing down the growth of the world economy. if the current price level were to be maintained, the forecasts for world economic growth would have to be revised downwards. if this goes on for too long, it's gonna become a problem for us, too. but i think we should use patience. the long-term rise in oil prices is a consequence of recent events and the strong economic growth in china and south-east asia, which is a positive thing in itself. low us stocks and political instability in the middle east have also contributed to this. moreover, with the presidential election in the united states and many other political factors in mind, such speculative elements have now affected price pressures and have little to do with the real scarcity of oil. the only way we can influence the price of oil and other energy in the long term is to ensure that european energy policy is sufficiently diversified, and we must support a diversified energy mix that includes all the main forms of energy, including nuclear power in particular. the dependence on oil is also very difficult for relations with russia, as mr paasilinna said, among others. russia sells energy where it is best priced, and the big consumers, china and india, can outperform europe in this respect. we must not rely on imported energy, but we must ensure that we produce more of our energy in europe at a reasonable price and in an environmentally sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many members of the proposed commission whom i can warmly support. unfortunately, the only option is still to vote no. the commissioner responsible for justice and home affairs is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights in the applicant countries. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the union. what kind of signal does this send to turkey and the other applicant countries? the green group was also concerned about the answers given by mr dimas, the commissioner-designate for the environment, to the committee on the environment. of course, dimas showed that he felt that environmental protection promotes economic development, which made us happy. but he did not present any action plan, nothing concrete about how to develop environmental protection, and this worried us. i hope dimas will use his work to prove our fears wrong.
mr president, i would like to use the floor if i may. in his opening speech of this debate, the president of the socialist group, martin schulz, treated her royal highness the queen with a very condescending attitude.
i think, mr president, that the way in which the president of the pse group, mr martin schulz, wanted to criticise the dutch presidency for not being present at this recent debate is highly inappropriate. the fact that he directed these remarks to her royal highness queen beatrix was highly inappropriate on a day when we have a solemn assembly in the presence of queen beatrix. it is not appropriate to try to attack the netherlands for political reasons ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
, on behalf of the group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate our drafters, mr jensen and mr garriga polledo, on the excellent work they have done in drafting this year's budget. the task has been a difficult one, but both rapporteurs have done an excellent job. i would also like to thank the new chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandowsk, for his skillful leadership of the committee. but i would like to thank commissioner schreyer in particular for the excellent cooperation he has shown not only this year but throughout the past five years and throughout the entire parliamentary term. under your leadership, the eu budgets have been drawn up and the legal base has been modified. the budget structure has been changed, the financial and executive regulation has been reformed and the accounting system is being reformed. i would like to thank you very much for the good cooperation and wish you the best of success in the future. the eu's 2005 budget aims to boost economic growth. the committee's report gives particular emphasis to the promotion of economic cohesion and employment. we think the priorities are right. the eu's agriculture is to be safeguarded ahead of a major reform. the commission therefore reimbursed some eur 1 billion of the cuts made by the council. the gradual reduction of live animal movements is of particular importance and the committee has set aside 10% of the appropriations for this purpose. the committee also proposed an additional eur 40 million for the fight against animal diseases. this has always been a priority for my group. the structural funds are important instruments for job creation, and the committee was therefore right to set the payment appropriations at eur 3.8 billion. this will speed up the implementation of programmes and reduce the number of outstanding commitments, or rals, which have already reached the level of the appropriations for about two years. their accumulation threatens structural policy for years to come. a special focus has been on promoting entrepreneurship. the strengthening of the budget lines has been important, both for small and mediumsized enterprises and for research and training programmes. my group supports these proposals. the priorities are also in line with the new financial perspective, as they also aim to strengthen the eu's competitiveness by strengthening these spending lines. the draft budget, which may be amended, is parliament's first view of next year's budget. i hope that the budget will be agreed in good faith by december.
, on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, i too had written in my speech positive words about commissioner schreyer's five years in office, but i cannot say anything new besides what has already been said here today, and so i would just like to thank commissioner schreyer on behalf of my group. the budget for next year is a matter of contradiction in our group. many representatives of the so-called net contributors support the council's strict one per cent line. however, the majority of our group considers the budget too tight because the priorities expressed by parliament are not being implemented, especially in the field of external relations. we support the emphasis on the lisbon strategy in the priorities of the commission's budget rapporteur, but we regret that the large parliamentary groups have not wanted to increase the resources for employment and social objectives. we're pushing too far on corporate terms. the increase in the budget for information is a two-pronged approach. the commission is proposing to increase funding for campaigning for a new eu constitution. our experience is that the commission, like parliament, channels these funds for propaganda purposes and seeks to influence the outcome of referendums held in the member states. all too often, eu information money is used to promote persuasive advertising without presenting the full picture. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). the national parties in our group do not have a common european political party. all left-wing parties do not want to limit their freedom of action by any kind of party discipline or compulsory solidarity at the level of the union. so some of our group members are opposed to the payment of european union subsidies from parliament's funds. there seems to be more understanding in increasing the funds allocated to the hiring of assistants. we look forward to the negotiations between parliament and the council for the second reading of the budget. the margins now created are not sufficient to cover both the council's and parliament's priorities, and both must pursue their objectives. our group will take a final position on the draft budget after we have seen the outcome of the negotiations now under way.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission welcomes the opportunity afforded by the european parliament to highlight once again the importance to the community of the conservation and protection of the marine environment. mr solbes made a statement on behalf of the commission at the march 2004 plenary session on the impact of low frequency active sonar on the marine environment. the declaration recalled that community law obliges the member states of the european union to establish a strict system of protection for whales in european waters. however, the commission did not have the information necessary on high-intensity active sonar systems and their possible effects on whales to clarify open scientific questions and to take a clear position. the commission has therefore asked the international council for marine research to carry out a scientific study of this complex question. this will serve as a basis for describing future measures that may be necessary to avoid disturbance of whales and to ensure compliance with the provisions of the habitats directive. the scientific review has now started and a draft of the conclusions is expected in early 2005. the commission will make the results of this review available to the european parliament and the public. we will consult with the member states in the framework of the habitats committee on the best ways of protecting whales from sonar systems and other types of noise. these discussions involve all parties involved. the commission is aware of the possible environmental impact of military activities. however, since the eu has no competence in this area, the community cannot take measures to regulate the development of new defence technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say again that the study was commissioned in september 2003 and will probably be available by the end of the year. it is a complex study because it is designed to collect all the available data. this is often not easy, since it is the military sphere. for this reason, we ask that you take note that the study will take a longer time to complete. i hope very much, however, as i have been able to do on behalf of my colleagues, that the results will be available early next year and that a good basis for action will then be provided.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the opportunity to remind you once again of the importance of this subject and of the many impacts that high-powered vessels have on our environment and in particular on marine life. we have already raised the whales twice and will continue to do so until we have made clear progress on this matter. i would like to thank commissioner schreyer for his hopeful answer. it is important that the commission does everything it can within the limits of its powers. two years ago i myself collected names for the first oral question and i must say that the research material on this subject has increased considerably during this period. detailed information on the effects of hpcs has been obtained from a number of reliable sources, including 18 european scientists who, in a paper published in nature on 9 october 2003, point to the significant threat posed by hpcs, particularly to marine mammals, but also to fish and other marine life. the evidence for the link between mass marine mammal deaths and high-powered destroyers has increased considerably. in october last year, researchers and a delegation from our parliament visited nato headquarters to present two petitions calling on nato member states to restrict the use of the so-called lfas system until its environmental impact and its link to the recent whale deaths have been fully investigated. by then, the petition had been signed by over 85,000 people and 68 environmental organisations from europe, the us and canada. while recognizing that it is perfectly legitimate to seek to develop a defence system and to monitor submarines of new technology, it is particularly important to take account of the vulnerability of our environment. in the context of sustainable development, efforts must be made to develop alternative technologies that protect nature and achieve the objectives set for it. in military technology as in other fields, it is good to remind ourselves of the ecological cost of the technology we choose. the price of high-powered heaters is too high.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the security situation in bosnia and herzegovina has improved, but the country is still unstable and an international presence is needed. the future operation will contribute to the eu's rapprochement with bosnia and herzegovina and strengthen the union's role throughout the western balkans. the motion before us is a good one and mr wiersma has done a great job. as althea's shadow rapporteur, i made some comments on the main proposal and i am glad that they were taken into account when the proposal was drawn up. it is important that action is taken in bosnia and herzegovina against organised crime and trafficking in women. i would like to stress that when local police forces are being set up, account must be taken of the need to ensure a more balanced representation of ethnic groups. this will increase the confidence and commitment of all groups in the region to maintaining order. we need to catch the remaining war criminals. the dayton agreement must be implemented. it's about credibility. this is a nato mission. this is the first major eu-led military operation. we'll have to monitor the progress of the operation very closely. it is important to ensure that it is operational and that the division of labour is clear. the eu must ensure that althea forces fully respect human rights. the eu is committed to respecting human rights and this must be reflected in all althea's activities, whether in the treatment of prisoners or detainees or in any other activity. the european parliament delegation will be familiar with the activities of althea next year and will have the opportunity, among other tasks, to assess the respect for human rights.
on behalf of the group. ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit next december will be historic, because we now know that the kyoto agreement will come into force. but it must be understood that kyoto is only the first step on a long road and now is the time to prepare for the next emission reductions. and we need to bring in new countries like china and india. the eu must therefore present without delay, first, its own long-term emission reduction target and, secondly, its own proposal for a model for international emission reductions. to prevent catastrophic climate change, global emissions must be reversed in at least twenty years, and industrialized countries must cut their emissions by at least sixty percent in about fifty years. this may sound dramatic, but we can survive a soft change if we act consistently. by reducing emissions by less than two per cent each year, we will achieve a reduction of sixty per cent in fifty years. with modern sustainable technology, it is possible. market mechanisms that favour clean technologies, such as energy taxation and emissions trading, are needed, but other new measures are also needed. one possibility is to reduce vat on the most energy-efficient appliances on the market. this is another way of achieving surprisingly large emission reductions if consumers always choose the most energy-efficient option when making purchasing decisions. so there is still time to take the softest action to prevent catastrophic change, if we are determined and consistent and if the eu maintains its leadership in international climate policy.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great work he has done on this important and controversial directive on packaging waste. the enlargement of europe has brought us to a situation where the common objectives for achieving a single legislation are particularly stringent for the new member states, perhaps more stringent than ever before. in this respect, the proposal for a directive on packaging waste is not exceptional. the entry into force of this directive should be based on the objective of ensuring the best possible functioning of the internal market without any risk of distortion. this is easier said than done. the single market area has expanded, and the starting levels of countries are perhaps more divergent than ever. the commission's proposal to set a common back-up date for the recovery and recycling targets for the new member states under the packaging waste directive until december 2012 is justified in order to bring the market into line as soon as possible. however, the proposal is not without problems. it may therefore be wise to look ahead and take better account of the starting levels of the new countries when setting the back-line. in this way we avoid the potentially embarrassing consequences of breaching the conditions laid down and at the same time we put the unity of europe before the unity of the markets now under consideration. the recycling and reuse of packaging waste has also been the subject of much discussion during the preparation of the directive. the ecological value of recycling should not be disputed. however, it should be noted that the environmental friendliness of re-used packaging is not always directly justifiable. the short haul is certainly better, but problems arise when each producer has its own packaging and the internal distances on the european market are long. a good example is the transport of fruit from southern countries to the nordic countries, where the return of reusable packaging would not contribute to sustainable development. for example, cartons are often collected and recycled locally, so a large amount of unnecessary transport is avoided. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. it is good for the present report that the objective of uniform application of the directive is not unduly jeopardised by vague national packaging reuse schemes.
the joint statement of the groups is clear and strong. the will of the ukrainian people must be fulfilled in accordance with the principles of democracy. i would also like to stress the importance of the paragraphs in the declaration which support the unity and integrity of ukraine. ukraine is divided in many respects, but its disintegration into two states would be harmful and dangerous. it would create new problems rather than solve old ones. ukraine must have the opportunity to achieve genuine independence. it must have the right to good relations and cooperation with both the eu and russia. it would be better if we could strengthen multilateral cooperation in which the eu, russia and ukraine are equally involved. i'm not happy with the tenth paragraph of the statement. i think we should make it clear that as a european country, ukraine has a right to membership of the european union, provided it meets the conditions for membership. as far as europe is concerned, the new neighbourhood policy should not be seen as an alternative to membership but as a means of helping our european neighbours to become members. now that turkey has been accepted as a member of the eu in principle, the door must also be open to ukraine, which is a genuinely european country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow ukrainians, i am sure you are listening carefully to this debate. we can now say without any further doubt that the ukrainian elections were marred by such abuses that the result cannot be accepted. even prime minister yanukovych has called for the election results to be annulled, especially due to the uncertainties in the western part of the country. opposition leader yushchenko and international observers noted the ambiguity in the eastern parts. but both agree that the elections were not fair; that is recognized by all. the first mirror should be the first to recognize the fraudulent election results, including russia, turkmenistan, kazakhstan and belarus. i would like to thank the ukrainian opposition for their moderate and patient action in making democracy heard in difficult circumstances. the eu should also take a moderate but firm stance on the situation in ukraine. our mission is to promote democracy and human rights. that is what we have done in the situation in ukraine. this election is going to decide a lot. this election will decide whether ukraine will become a great poland a western european country open to democracy or a small russia oriented towards the east and a pseudo-democracy with a dominant position. i hope that we in the eu will agree on which is more desirable. we respect the right of the ukrainian people to state self-determination. once the second round of elections has been held in a democratic and fair manner, we must respect the result, whether positive or negative in our personal opinion. if, in my opinion, the more hopeful scenario were to come true and yushchenko wins, the side would not lose, so yanukovych's supporters would lose nothing. we must be able to work with them as well. the ukrainian people are already deeply divided and we must not increase and sharpen this division, these lines of division. we must secure a peaceful solution that will allow all ukrainians to continue building their society in accordance with the principles of democracy, human rights and the eu's common rule of law as a united ukraine.
on behalf of the group. mr president, parliament has already established a clear position on the new commission's position on the proposal from the prodin commission. the barroso commission will not make a new proposal. it is not clear to parliament whether it will take a position on the common expenditure side of the budget in future financial perspectives or on the revenue side of the budget, i.e. own resources. could the presidency at this stage assess whether it is willing to discuss its own resources with parliament? the commission proposal for a regulation contains a request for the abolition of the special membership allowance for the united kingdom. the claim is justified. how is it, does the council need parliament's support in bringing this up? how strictly is the council committed to the 1% ceiling? the presidency as the dutch representative, can you tell us whether this 1% is a commitment or a payment? finally, many members of our group have taken a negative view of the financing of the union's activities by means of special euro taxes, and we support the position of some members of the council.
mr president, mr minister, the future financial perspective for the eu is part of a whole which includes a fundamental reform of the whole of community policy. the financial perspective is accompanied by a reform of the eu's own resources system and a number of multiannual programmes, including regional and structural policies. all this requires a great deal of work and study on the part of parliament and good cooperation between the various institutions of the european union. the financial outlook is expected to be a difficult negotiation. the important thing is that parliament should not be pressured in these negotiations, as there have already been signs of this. if the financial perspective does not agree by the deadline, the eu budget can reasonably be drawn up on the basis of article 272 of the treaty. of course, then the measures to improve employment will be delayed. the fact that the financial perspective is not yet finalised should not be used as an excuse to put the brakes on legislative proposals. the member states have a great responsibility in this respect and their differences must not be reflected in the day-to-day work of the european union.
the european union now has problems with both the east and the west, with both the united states and russia. in the united states, the administration has taken a strong unilateral approach. it's seen in trade disputes and the war in iraq, and there's been a kind of alienation. i think our relationship is going to take a lot of work right now. the immigrants have created a new group of americans who voted republican in the last election. defense secretary rumsfeld has said that we have new europeans as well. we have indeed expanded and in this way have brought new blood into our ranks. but these newcomers have a different relationship with the united states - i don't think for very long now, because of our actions - and they have a different relationship with russia, through its harsh and difficult history as part of the soviet union or alongside it. the first meeting of our parliamentary cooperation committee took place last week and that was the first time the matter was raised. for the first time, and i'm sure it won't be the last. i think the summit last week was a complete failure. we did not agree on four areas of joint action. they're just part of the whole. we know the reasons. so there are problems with both the united states and russia, but russia's relations remain almost stable. progress has also been made: the adoption of the enlargement and partnership agreement, the kyoto agreement and so on. but there is a long list of problems with the investment protection agreement in chechnya, which has also emerged here. we have discussed common values with the russians at many summits. but how much do we really share in common? are we worthy of distancing ourselves from each other, and if values are so different for so long, before long we will be distanced to the point of sanctions. what is the commission going to do to ensure that we do not drift away from each other in our values and that russia does not seem to be able to sail somewhere else in space, perhaps to the east and asia? what could the commission do about this?
mr president, sport, including football, is becoming increasingly important as a resource for human well-being, health, cultural dimension, social cohesion and the economy. the importance of physical activity and sport is strongly recognised in the european union and is therefore being given a legal basis by the new constitutional treaty. the moral and ethical basis of european sporting culture is 'fair play'. the values of democracy, equality and solidarity are also central. these values have been the basis for the so-called european model of sport. it is particularly important to look at the commission's achievements in the field of physical education culture in the context of the european year of physical education. the forthcoming ratification of the constitutional treaty by the member states of the union also obliges the commission to start preparations without delay to clarify the legal basis for sport. we have a lot of questions that need to be answered. in the case of football, which is a particular subject today, we need, among other things, measures to ensure the purity of european competition and the protection of young players. we also need to act to tackle the unfortunate side effects of doping, racism and football hooliganism. it is important that sports organisations and sports clubs are aware of their social responsibility. in football, this would hopefully mean that clubs have specific activities in the area of junior work. when talking about the possible support of society for football, supporting the work of the clubs of educators should be a priority. the union and society must also contribute to improving the conditions for exercise and to building sports facilities that serve the public. at european level, there are also great differences in football clubs and cultures. some clubs focus on raising players and selling them to top teams, and some on maximizing success among the world's elite teams. as football is a large industry, it is difficult for national states or the union to control the selection of players by football clubs. i also do not think it is appropriate. in the case of players, i.e. employees of football clubs, the free movement of european players is euro...
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this programme cannot be born too soon. ict-based and other information technologies and cybersecurity are essential to achieve the lisbon objectives. we cannot allow criminal and irresponsible hackers and business pranksters to take over the internet. actually, blackmail has already come to the internet at the corporate level. i would hope that by the end of this programme at the latest, the commission would have the courage to take a firm line and to draw up binding community-level rules for this sector to prevent harmful, illegal and unwanted content. the problem is, the problems evolve faster than the prevention measures. we could use enisa, the network security agency, to do this. so we need new rules. europe does not accept piracy on the road or at sea, so why on the internet?
mr president, i would first like to thank mr gauzès, the rapporteur, for his excellent work. we have a very competent and professional colleague from gauzès in this parliament. i personally believe that the eu should seek to reach agreements on revenue policy and cooperation with its neighbours. this will help us to ensure that we are operating under the same rules as our neighbours. it is particularly important to contribute to the fight against fraud and money laundering, also as part of the fight against terrorism. the legislative barriers to the eu's internal market in financial services have largely been removed or are in the process of being removed. the functioning and strength of the internal market depends precisely on how effectively we can agree and implement european legislation where it is needed. i also mean the implementation of decisions in the member states and the control of implementation, which is unfortunately often weak. however, there is still a lot to be done, especially in the area of taxation. for example, in january 2003 the fefsi, the european investment fund cooperation, published a study on the various tax obstacles faced by investment fund managers in the internal market. the study found that tax barriers are one of the most significant obstacles to the effective internal market for investment funds. these are not, of course, directly related to interest income, but nevertheless to barriers to investment and capital markets. so there is a need for unification in taxation. however, i do not believe that full tax harmonization will have any positive effects. rather, healthy competition between eu member states, and also with neighbouring countries, is likely to make our markets more efficient and to bring benefits to end users. cooperation and harmonization must be done in the tax bases, that is, in the matters we tax, and in administrative cooperation. i would like to conclude by making a request to commissioner kovács. at the hearing you referred to the tobin tax and indicated that you were interested in this matter. i would hope, however, that in your further action you would take account of the position expressed on numerous occasions by the european parliament that we do not expect any initiatives from the commission on matters relating to transfers of funds.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the court of auditors, and in particular its president, mr fabra vallés, for the annual audit report and for presenting it to the house. the accounts show the weaknesses of eu governance. the structural measures in particular are facing problems. last year, as much as eur 8.3 billion was not used, as payments were already reduced by eur 5 billion by the middle of the year, and yet the accounts show a shortfall of eur 3.1 billion. in total, eur 34 billion of the payment appropriations already budgeted for 2000-03 has not been used. this has resulted in commitments not being paid, which have risen to eur 69.3 billion, meaning that the full two-year budget will be needed in future to pay off the old arrears. the administration of structural policy is thus the subject of a thorough review when new regulations are drawn up. the second problem is the irregular payments for agricultural expenditure, which have accumulated eur 3.1 billion between 1971 and last year. only 17% of these have been recovered. the future should be a system whereby undue payments can be directly deducted from the aid to be paid to the member state in the following year and the member state is responsible for recovery. the present financial statements and audit report are the first to be drawn up under the new financial regulation. that is why they are of great importance for the future. the audit report's audit opinion raises concerns again. for the tenth time in succession, the statement is not clear and cannot give an assurance that the commission's expenditure on payments is, on the whole, legal and proper. this is making it difficult to control the situation. if the commission has not carried out its work in a completely legal and proper manner, the starting point should be that the commission should be dismissed. it should have been separated every ten years. law and order are the foundation of all government. however, only the santer commission resigned, and the reasons for the resignation were political rather than legal. the basis for assessing discharge is what is right from a human standpoint. the question is, have the accounts and administration been handled as a careful man handles his own finances? the quality of the errors is also crucial. is it a misinterpretation, negligence, obvious administrative error or willful fraud? the quality control report for the defects does not give a clear answer. we must do something about the future development of governance and auditing. i therefore support the rapporteur, mr wynn, in calling for the system to be developed. this demand was echoed yesterday by minister nicolaï, the representative of the presidency.
i thank the rapporteur for the balanced report. the roots of turkish culture are more diverse than most of us realize. they are also found in european, caucasian, and mediterranean cultures. turkey's accession would enrich our culture. we must now fulfil the promise made to turkey during the finnish presidency. this would be a coherent follow-up to the establishment and enlargement of the eu to consolidate peace. the counter-arguments are illogical. if islam were an obstacle, we would declare the 15 million muslims now living in the eu countries, which is three times the population of finland, to be second class citizens. those who remembered the ottoman campaigns might remember, say, the swedish campaigns of centuries past. it is important that turkey's accession is only achieved if it genuinely fulfils the criteria of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and respect for minorities.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree that we should do everything to stabilise our neighbourhood, but not on the way in which turkey's membership is to be realised. we are all agreed that democracy requires that everyone be able to participate in decision-making. this also applies to the present member states which have, amongst others, linguistic minorities, which together account for 10% of the eu population. if the mandates of the member states in the european parliament are reduced without any guarantee that the true diversity of europe is reflected in the composition of the parliament, the minorities will be expelled from the parliament as a result of turkey's accession. europe is a cultural and linguistic mosaic that has also created tension and bloodshed. it is therefore unwise to go for a solution which will not reflect the true diversity of europe. all eu citizens must feel welcome in a union whose power is growing every day. it would be unfortunate if, for example, the balkan states were to be represented as future members only by the largest ethnic group. representation at eu level for minorities is of great importance in reducing tensions. since this dimension has not been taken into account in the report, i cannot vote in favour of it. i want a europe for all eu citizens, not just for some, no matter how big the historic decisions we face.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to mr eurlings for his excellent report. in october, leyla zana, winner of the 1995 sakharov prize, told us that 'you must bring turkey into the negotiations, otherwise we kurds will not survive'. this is a serious basis for negotiations, but it only means that turkey will now be placed in the observer category. the starting point for negotiations must be open and there is no backstop. turkey must meet all the requirements of european democracy, including women's rights. it is important that negotiations can be terminated at any time if there is insufficient progress. so there are three ways out of turkey: the beginning, the end and the middle. we are not ready for enlargement for a long time, but we are already able to negotiate. turkey is not europe, but democracy and human rights are, and that is why they must be spread at least to our neighbours.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr eurlings for a very good report which takes account of a number of different points of view. although i am more critical of turkey's rapid accession, i would nevertheless like to support the adoption of the eurlings report. the most surprising thing about turkish membership is the urgency. many experts have said that nowhere will there be the political strength to say no to turkey in ten years' time, even if turkey does not meet the membership criteria. this haste can lead to a big mistake. we cannot ignore the situation in turkey, particularly in the field of human rights. the conditions relating to human rights and minority rights must be fully met before membership can be accepted. i have also been concerned about the cost of turkish membership and the fact that nobody seems to know. the outside estimates are quite impressive. the contributions of the current net contributors should increase significantly. this in turn may increase public dissatisfaction with the eu. with turkey joining the union, it will no longer be the eu it is today. that is why the citizens must have the right to express their opinion on the matter. the member states must be encouraged to hold referendums on this issue. i fear that turkey's rapid accession is too big a piece to swallow and that the eu will probably choke on it.
mr president, the strategic political priorities must be the big things first. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. one important political priority is definitely security. we must look at security in a broad sense, as we look at peace in europe and peace in the world. but above all, we must be concerned with safety on an individual level. the citizens must feel safe and secure in their lives. another important priority is competitiveness, which is already frequently mentioned here, and the lisbon strategy plays a key role in this respect. the commission president highlighted the lisbon agenda and it must be implemented, not just a wish list. the essential element of competitiveness is that we must be creating the conditions for new businesses to enter europe, which in turn will create new jobs. these are the things we need to achieve the economic growth we need. however, a stable, healthy and growing economy requires instruments such as the growth and stability pact. it must be courageously upheld and followed by all, large and small. i would also like to refer to the discussion on turkey yesterday. if enlargement is too rapid, it may undermine our ability to achieve these desired results in both the economic and security fields. this in turn is likely to increase the anti-eu sentiment of the citizens. the enlargement process must therefore be moderate and controlled. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have now reached the historic stage of enlargement and the first elections to the european parliament since enlargement. it is reasonable that the commission's priorities reflect the message that has emerged from these events. i therefore hope that the guidelines will send a clear political signal worthy of the unique situation in which europe finds itself. we have promised that divided europe will grow together. therefore, the main focus should be on bridging the gap. health disparities must be addressed. we want companies that operate across borders and that even out economic disparities. to achieve this, we must make full use of the opportunities offered by structural and research policies. the baltic sea will be the cleanest sea in the world, which requires, among other things, an end to the emissions from st petersburg. we want a high-quality and dynamic research community in the baltic sea region, and i am sure that there are similar expectations further south. we shall build a legal area in which everyone will feel that he is protected by the law, wherever he moves within the territory of the union. finally, we need a consistent and vigorous policy also towards the union's eastern neighbours. the crisis in ukraine has shown the weaknesses of our neighbourhood policy. the eu must also sharpen its strategy and be consistent in its policy towards the caucasian countries, moldova and russia. these are questions which were also raised by mr wiersma. i readily agree with the words of commission president barroso in the french part of his speech: we must set priorities for the union as a whole.
the commission, the president and the members of the european parliament have two clear objectives: the european economic and social model which we are defending and the development of an area of freedom, security and justice. the principles of sustainable development must be applied to all this. however, competitiveness under lisbon cannot be achieved unless member states effectively implement the decisions. there is a kind of movement of non-solidarity within the union, led by those states which are slow to implement. this is evident in the telecommunications and energy sectors, for example. the commission must act quickly because it is costing us billions. what is sustainable development? is it environmental, social or scientific progress? all of these, of course, but especially the informal. if there is no proper basic education in our country, there will be no sustainable development. in my country, 15 percent of teenage boys are out of school. the link between school and home is broken, but still my country has for years been the best in the world for primary education. what are we doing in europe? the result is a europe of aged people and poorly educated people. what kind of sustainable development is that? we need to invest in research and development. the 3% ceiling is not reached, except for two countries. look at all the stats. those who have completed this are number one in all statistics. that's a good example of what we should do. this is the century of the information and technological revolution. 40% of our competitiveness since the mid-1990s was based on new technology, and in the united states the corresponding figure was 60%. we can draw the following conclusions: mr barroso, commission, get on with this, otherwise we will be left behind.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the eu budget for 2005 is now in its second reading in parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteurs on the budget, salvador garriga polledo and anne jensen, for their excellent work. i would also like to thank mr lewandowsk, the chairman of the committee, for his consistent leadership of the committee, and commissioner grybauskaitė and minister nicolaïta, the council's representative, for their constructive cooperation. the eu budget for 2005 may meet next year's needs, although there are some question marks. the most difficult hand-wringing was on payment appropriations which threatened to be too small. the current outstanding commitments, or rals, amount to eur 100 billion, of which the structural funds account for some eur 70 billion. the weak implementation of the budget in recent years has now created a bottleneck. the council wanted to limit the payment appropriations to the end. with great effort, payments were raised to eur 106.3 billion, still eur 7.9 billion below the financial perspective. however, it is €500 million, or more than 1% of the eu's gross national income. the budgetary ceiling proposed by the six member states was therefore also a problem in the conciliation procedure. however, even the council expressed doubts about the adequacy of the funding by adopting a joint declaration that any supplementary budget for the structural funds should be adopted in one reading. the statement is contrary to sound budgetary policy, since the budget must include all the known expenditure for the financial year. it should be noted that the same conciliation process approved an increase of eur 3.7 billion in the payment appropriations for the structural funds this year, as the funds have been exhausted. this was two billion euros of new money. the budgetary procedure highlighted the rapid growth in the number of separate agencies of the european union. next year, there'll be 23 of them, five of them new. the administrative costs of these were covered by eur 40 million from the flexibility instrument, as no other funding was available. a large number of agencies have been set up recently as a result of trade between member states. in 2000, there were only seven separate agencies. it is therefore urgently necessary to establish whether the separate agencies are the most effective way of developing eu governance. it may be that we are creating units that are difficult to control, which in part only create a double bureaucracy. the second question concerns the various organizations and bodies to which the budget allocates funds directly. these ear tags are in fact contrary to the financial regulation. we think the system is a kind of pet system, where the supporting pillars are vague and unclear. parliament should remain the legislative body and leave the executive to the commission, which is the best way to ensure its impartiality.
mr president, as a representative of my political group i have been following the budgetary debate in the committee on budgets since the spring. i am convinced that both drafters of the report have done their best, but nevertheless my group proposes to reject the budget on the political grounds set out by our president, mr francis wurtz, at the beginning of the sitting. the problem from the parliament's point of view is budget discipline, which does not have the flexibility it needs. the strict budgetary discipline is complemented by an interinstitutional agreement which was smuggled through the european parliament in may 1999. the previous parliament could not and cannot influence the ceilings for appropriations set by the interinstitutional agreement. the only way to bring about more flexibility would have been to dismiss the interinstitutional agreement which came about under strange circumstances, but parliament has not been prepared to do so, despite the fact that the budgetary inflexibility has been widely known. the lack of flexibility is in the interests of the council, but not of parliament. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, the rapporteurs and the coordinators for the good cooperation they have shown, even though my group has ended up proposing that the budget be rejected.
mr president, the new financial framework for the european union is probably the biggest issue that parliament is faced with this term. it not only determines eu funding, but also the content of all future action. the first major disagreement between the member states concerns the extent of the funding. the commission's proposal is based on payment appropriations amounting to an average of 1.14% of gross national income. the six countries' proposal for a 1% spending cut is a tough one. it is not even the size of next year's budget, even though the transition period for the new member states is just beginning. so now we ask for solidarity. does it stop when it's money? the second problem is the requirement for the biggest net contributors to have a reduced membership fee, the so-called general correction mechanism. it does not seem fair, because these same member states are also the ones who benefit most from the common market. the commission's proposal places a strong emphasis on improving employment and competitiveness. i think the focus is right. there's been enough publicity. industry and business cannot succeed without strong research and development. on the other hand, research is so expensive that no member state can compete with the united states or japan on its own. that is why we need european cooperation. this is already the case, for example, in the fields of space technology and particle physics. the new research programmes must be based on the idea that they focus on projects requiring pan-european cooperation. they must not become the bureaucratic structural fund programmes that they are today. the training programmes for research programmes must also be strengthened. it would be very important to agree on the future financial framework as early as next year. this would avoid the same mess as the beginning of the agenda 2000 programming period, which was delayed and in which the preparation of several programmes was badly in progress.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the new financial framework will be the first to be established after enlargement. they must be acceptable to all, new and old members alike. this is true even of countries that are doing quite well. in northern europe, there are pressing special circumstances which have not disappeared. it cannot be fair to let permanently disadvantaged areas, such as those with cold climates and long distances, pay, so to speak, because they appear to be rich for statistical reasons. there is also an expectation that some projects not directly linked to the eu budget will be realised. for example, in the baltic sea region there is unprecedented support for improving the quality of marine water. it requires, among other things, that all waste water, including that from st. petersburg, be capable of being treated. research priorities must support the development of whole regions which have been separated for historical reasons, such as the baltic sea region and central europe. finally, i would like to note that there is a strong expectation of greater clarity in the union's foreign policy. we are facing challenges in ukraine, the caucasus, belarus and perhaps russia as well.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr moscovis for his excellent report, which takes account of a number of different points of view. candidates shall be treated equally and fairly. romania must fulfil the conditions laid down for it, as others have done when they joined the union. it is not a question of striving for perfection, nor is any of the present member states of the union perfect. today, problems have been raised in romania's internal affairs and justice. in his victory speech, basescu, who won the romanian presidential election, promised romanians a clean administration and an independent civil service. this is a promise to be taken seriously and a promise to be kept. romania must be encouraged to make reforms. i want to stress the importance of promoting human rights in the future. the attention must not be focused solely on the functioning of public administration, but human rights issues are at least as important, if not more important. human trafficking is a matter that must be treated with zero tolerance in romania as elsewhere in europe. unfortunately, even the present member states cannot look in the mirror with pride. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. romania should also be supported in the implementation of the new child protection law. finally, i would like to thank commissioner rehn for his promise to keep parliament well informed. i think that is a very important point. romania must be ready for membership, but the present member states must also be ready to accept romania as a member and to facilitate the dialogue between the commission and parliament.
