mr president, as you will be aware, last monday my office received an incendiary bomb which was addressed to me but opened by my staff. could i take the opportunity to thank colleagues for their solidarity and support. it was obviously a shocking incident, although we have to put it in perspective: a lot worse has happened to other members of this house. what was particularly frightening was that it was my staff who opened this correspondence and that could have included, for example, students on temporary work experience; that was the most cowardly aspect of it. while we have to take security precautions, i hope that we would not allow barriers to be created between us and the electorate, because that is exactly what the perpetrators want: to undermine democratic society. we have seen plenty of examples of that in the past. perhaps the most shocking aspect was a decision by mr farage of the uk independence party to put out an opportunist press release that was at best in the worst possible taste and at worst an apology for terrorism. since that press release, my office staff have had injury added to insult by receiving a lot of emails from supporters of the uk independence party, or its members, which have been frankly offensive and inflammatory in the extreme, including one suggestion that it should have been a bigger bomb. this has reinforced my view of the uk independence party as a group of paranoid reactionaries on the fringes of society who are now clearly prepared to throw their lot in with those who advocate the violent overthrow of governments. there have been apologists for terrorists in this house before, particularly herri batasuna. i am disappointed and ashamed that a british political party should have taken the same stance and i hope you condemn that, mr president. (applause)
mr president, i have said since the start of this episode that i condemn the use of violence to achieve political ends. i said that throughout last week, and i am disappointed that mr titley has refused to listen. if, as he says, he has received direct threats from people who purport to be supporters or members of the uk independence party, he should forward those names to me immediately, because those people would immediately face disciplinary proceedings and be expelled from our party. we are a non-racist, non-sectarian, democratic political party, but one which dares to say that carrying on with european integration without the wholehearted consent of the people of europe is a dangerous thing. would it not be better to put this proposed european constitution to a democratic vote in every country in the european union and let the people, not professional politicians, decide their destiny? not doing this might be a mistake of historic consequences that could lead to very serious disorder in the future.
mr president, last week at the south asian association for regional cooperation, india and pakistan announced that they will meet again in a month's time to take bilateral confidence-building measures, including talks on kashmir. this house will welcome an easing of tensions at the most dangerous flashpoint in the globe which only two years ago was on the brink of a nuclear war. both countries have recently announced a ceasefire along the line of control in kashmir, restored airline and bus links and signed a trade agreement. in march, india's cricket team will be visiting pakistan for the first time in a decade. sport and friendship go hand in hand. i urge president musharraf, nevertheless, at the same time to ensure an end to cross-border terrorist infiltration and i welcome the news today of the arrest of those accused of attempting to assassinate him. i am sure this house will wish to express its encouragement and support for the peace process.
mr president, just before christmas we had the annual brussels pantomime, otherwise known as the council of fisheries ministers, which deliberated on catch quotas for 2004, along with longer-term recovery measures for cod. for the second successive year the outcome for scots coastal and island communities was a disaster. while increasing haddock quotas, which was welcome, the council limited the scots fleet to only 15 days at sea, and also restricted access to certain key areas. that is likely to bankrupt many boats. incredibly the uk government-led ministerial team actually volunteered scotland for this suicidal package! it is little wonder that many scots have now completely lost faith in the cfp. i am calling on the european commission to look again at this package and to accept that the unworkable and discriminatory nature of its regulation must be re-examined.
mr president, i am sure that you and the whole house will join me in expressing our distress and condolences with regard to the 21 albanians who lost their lives when their boat was shipwrecked recently near vlora, off the albanian coast. as we rightly strive to develop common european policies for asylum and, in parallel, common policies for europe for legal immigration, this tragedy and other similar ones have drawn yet further attention to the need for the eu to be constantly aware of the less prosperous states around it and to do ever more to support those countries, of which albania is just one example.
mr president, i am sorry to have to make yet another complaint about air france. on this occasion it concerns embarkation. we used to leave through terminal 2d, where there are plenty of security machines and things ran smoothly, but for the last two months we have been leaving from terminal 2b, where there is one small security machine. today it took an average of 40 to 45 minutes to get through. i am really speaking on behalf of some very stressed-out passengers from the interpretation service and for staff who were in tears at the thought they might not get on the plane. members who went to the lounge and were called at the appropriate moment in fact found they had to queue for 40 minutes. the plane was then very late in leaving. could you perhaps ask that these facilities be improved?
mr president, i will concentrate on the issue of civil aviation safety. i start by offering, on behalf of my group, our condolences to the relatives and friends of all victims of aviation accidents, not just the recent one in sharm el-sheikh. i firmly believe, however, that aviation safety has to be put into perspective. the industry is the most regulated and has the best safety record of any mode of public transport. when you compare the record of aviation with the carnage that occurs on our roads, and when you consider that the number of air accidents is going down, whilst the number of road accidents is going up, then any discussion on aviation safety must take these facts into account. however, civil aviation must carry on improving its safety record. i wish to highlight four areas where improvements could be made. first there is a danger that a system similar to maritime transport's flags of convenience could creep into civil aviation. i hope easa, the new safety agency, will urgently examine this. member states need to increase their ramp inspections to weed out those airlines which are based in one country but register in another and have lower standards than we would expect within the european union. second, there is an urgent need for a europe-wide harmonised system of operations by way of an eu-ops. this particular issue is all the more urgent with the impending enlargement of the european union and would include matters such as flight and duty time for cockpit and cabin crew. third, the whole issue of cabin safety needs to be addressed, particularly the number of emergency exits, the amount of cabin baggage – try getting on the air france flight today from paris, for example! – and the use of sky marshals.fourth, there is a need to reform the existing package travel directive which is now not only outdated, but ineffectual and allows some airlines to offer packages without being covered by the directive. this parliament, with the help of the commission, has worked long and hard to improve aviation safety and we have had some success. there are still areas where more progress needs to be made. however, i repeat that aviation is the safest form of public transport and accidents, however tragic, are thankfully rare. the house would do well to await the results of any official investigations before jumping to conclusions that can often be misguided and wrong.
mr president, i support the british initiative to highlight those airlines that are not allowed into uk airspace. at this time we cannot presume that the recent air accident in egypt was caused by mechanical failure. it is therefore prudent for us to await the accident investigation report. however, i agree with the commission that travel agents and tour operators should inform passengers more fully about the airlines which are part of their holiday package. perhaps we can do something about that. there must also be a far better means of exchange of information, whether it be through the international civil aviation organization, the eu or member states. in addition, i believe that the maes report on ramp checks, which is coming to its conclusion, should address some of the issues. with regard to the transfer of data, we should remember that 3 000 people lost their lives in those horrendous attacks on 11 september, and many of them were from the european union. so it is not surprising that the americans reacted in the way they did. having said that, i fully welcome the outcome of the negotiations attended by commissioners bolkestein and de palacio. the conclusions drawn from those negotiations are extremely positive, not least, in my view, in relation to the information on collection and storage. hopefully that should satisfy parliament. i agree that better cooperation between the us and the eu could probably solve problems before they arise. i would therefore urge the united states not to act unilaterally. i think we can do things better. with regard to the suspension and delay of flights over the christmas and new year period, they were clearly decisions that had to be made by national governments. in my view, it is therefore necessary to look again at the lisi report, which has just gone through parliament, as regards current non-reference to matters coming under force majeure.
mr president, like others i welcome these reports on combating ship-source pollution. the uk, as an island, is especially vulnerable, and the history of our coastline is littered with horrific accidents and disasters not dissimilar to the prestige. i am sure there is merit in the idea of harmonising sanctions, but these need to be very powerful measures and certainly must not weaken member states' existing legislation. harmonising up, yes, but levelling down, no. then we need to ask who we are really trying to make responsible. mr andrews referred earlier on to 'rust buckets': the elderly ships on our seas that are a threat to coastlines, to maritime safety and to marine life. in the event of an accident, it is not the captains of these ships who need a custodial or prison sentence; it is the owners, those who are really responsible. all too often, it seems, it is those at the top, those with ultimate responsibility, who escape justice. mr ortuondo larrea and others referred to flags. this is something of a distraction. the real issue here is the farce whereby ships are allowed to sail under flags of a country with which they have no connection at all. finally, we also need to ensure that the rights of people living near areas vulnerable to disasters are protected. we have to consider the consequences for citizens who live close to pollution disaster areas. all these aspects vary from one country to another and, listening to this debate, i remain to be convinced as to how these harmonising instruments will actually crack down on those who are really responsible and bring them to justice.
mr president, i begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr pex, although he is absent this evening, for his work on this very important report, which we broadly support. it is extremely important to have legislation in place under which those responsible for unlawful oil or chemical discharges from ships can be prosecuted. we are no longer prepared to put up with reckless behaviour, which too often has resulted in irreparable damage to the environment. nevertheless, it is necessary to differentiate between intentional and accidental pollution. the united kingdom already has criminal sanctions in place for unlawful discharges from ships, as specified in the marpol convention, and matters relating to criminal law should, as such, fall within the competence of the member state and not the community. furthermore, as there have been no practical difficulties between member states in deciding where a prosecution should take place, this proposal should be removed from the framework decision. finally on this point, the introduction of a european coastguard is neither practical nor necessary, nor is it consistent with the united nations convention on the law of the sea. british conservative meps will oppose those amendments. as regards the poignant report, in principle we support this proposal and accept that the new regulation will improve cooperation between the administrators of maritime registers in the member states. as i clearly pointed out prior to the vote in the debate of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, british conservative meps will vehemently oppose the integration of the emblem of the european union onto our red ensign. it will do nothing to enhance security and could even make eu-registered ships potential targets. in addition, identification is not an issue, as all vessels carry their unique imo numbers as well as the name of their ports of registry. to conclude, registration principles are determined internationally in the united nations and imo system, which is global rather than european. the eu is not a nation-state – fortunately – and it is doubtful whether anyone else would recognise an eu flag in terms of the international conventions.
mr president, i sympathise with the commissioner over the vagaries of temperature in this building. to paraphrase william shakespeare, i come not to bury radioactive waste but to praise nuclear energy: that is to say, to provide a reminder that nuclear energy is vitally important to european electricity and, therefore, our people must have great confidence in the safety standards applied to its generation. there has been an interesting debate about whether this should be a directive, which is binding, or a non-binding instrument. i would remind colleagues that the existing instruments covering nuclear safety – national regulations and the convention on nuclear safety – are perfectly and wholly adequate. let us remember that the buck stops with the member states. however, what a directive can do is to change the perception individuals have of nuclear energy and their judgment as to whether or not it is safe. that is vitally important. i welcome the changes to the treatment of decommissioning funds in the main text, which was a very important issue. i also welcome the principle involved in the proposal on decommissioning waste – the principle of setting deadlines for adopting a programme and choosing a site. i say that because member states must take decisions and they – my own included – must be pushed into taking those decisions. that is the vital role of this proposal. let us have flexibility, but let us set deadlines. that also will enhance public confidence.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the commissioner, and commiserate with her for her illness. although she was actually speaking to mrs ahern, i hope that whatever happens to kyoto, we would pursue policies on a no-regrets basis, which, apart from helping the climate, make complete business sense. the package is, as the commissioner said, a response to the european parliament, which is in turn responding to the very real fears and concerns of european citizens, as is our duty – my voice sounds rather similar to yours, commissioner, i apologise: i too have a cold. whatever one's views about the future of nuclear power, mine are considerably less optimistic than those of others who have spoken. i believe that market liberalisation means there is practically no future for nuclear power without a huge change in the ability of states to promote it. i believe that technical advancement in other forms of energy, including perhaps nuclear fusion, make the future very unsure. we are talking about the present, namely the present dangers of nuclear accidents and the present uncertainty surrounding the disposal of existing radioactive waste. i regret very much that the changes which the convention could have made to the euratom treaty were not seized upon – in great cowardice – by member states and by the convention. as far as radioactive waste is concerned, there is no agreed solution. the royal society in the united kingdom pointed out that the so-called solution of deep geological burial has many uncertain points which need to be solved technically. there is no public acceptance either in my country or in many others of deep-level storage. we must look at other possibilities, including partition and transmutation. the issue of decommissioning funds is one that has been rightly raised and is of great concern. i am glad that has been tackled. the risk of accidents, with which mr seppänen's report and your draft directive are concerned, has also been strengthened because of 11 september, as has the even more serious security question which is now facing us. i read today that germany has come up with a somewhat bizarre solution which appears to be to cover nuclear power stations with artificial fog! frankly, we need to be a little bit more constructive than that. i have some doubts about the capability of the european commission to have the resources and rigour which our citizens demand. therefore, my group, although it supports the two reports, wants a lot more from you, commissioner, and from our member states. i hope that will be forthcoming. citizens really worry about these issues.
mr president, it is interesting to see that none of our british conservative colleagues are here today to support their record on liberalisation in such areas as the railways. a recent uk parliamentary report on water privatisation has shown that many poorer people, such as pensioners, have had such difficulty in meeting their bills that they have been cutting their water use to a bare minimum. in some cases this has been described as verging on a public health crisis. the drive for privatisation has also been part of a drive to reduce costs in the public sector and this has often resulted in wage squeezes that have hit the lowest paid. the tab for that is still picked up by the public purse through effectively subsidising wages in that area. those people may be on a minimum wage, but it is not necessarily a liveable wage. that is not to say that everything in the public sector has been perfect, but in our view a lot of the claims made for liberalisation in this report are highly questionable. my group does not believe that general-interest services can be treated in the same way as companies which produce, for example, plastic key rings. it is not an area that should be subject to general competition policy and we have tabled amendments to that effect. we believe that competition rules need to give way to general-interest services, and not the reverse. we agree entirely with the commission on the need for legal clarity. that is an issue we have often raised in connection with gats and is the subject of an amendment we have tabled and for which we hope to win support.
in the case of the united states, the united kingdom and ireland, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states is able to comply with the international standards for the protection of human rights. however, we cannot support the growing trend towards harmonising criminal law at european level, as this is unnecessary and impractical. we shall therefore abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. - conservative members believe that pollution from ships is a problem that must be solved. we agree with some of the measures proposed in the report, including the setting up of joint investigation teams. however, we cannot support the growing trend towards harmonising criminal law in the eu and therefore we cannot support this report.
- in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of goods and services. the uk already has criminal sanctions for illegal discharges under the marpol convention and matters relating to criminal law should be the responsibility of the member states and not the community. however, we do not believe that the creation of a european coastguard is practical or necessary, since it is not in accordance with the un convention on the law of the sea. we cannot therefore support amendments calling for the creation of a european coastguard.
mr president, with reference to mr poignant's report, i voted against the notion that the eu flag should appear on all eu vessels. the diversity of the european union is something to celebrate and not to eliminate. i look forward to the day when an independent scotland will have its flag on its vessels and in many other places, choosing if and when it is appropriate to have the eu flag alongside. i do not believe that this is one of the occasions when that is either appropriate, necessary or desirable.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the introduction of the new system. proposals which make it easier for ships from a member state of the european union to move in and out of community ports and thus facilitate the free movement of goods are to be welcomed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, today's vote on nuclear waste is most timely, given that research recently showed that over half the uk sites identified as potential nuclear dumps are located in scotland. my group today voted against the nuclear package because it offers nothing in terms of environmental safety. furthermore, my party will continue to fight against scotland becoming a nuclear dustbin. the scottish national party's vision of an independent scotland is one of a clean, green scotland profiting from our natural heritage and healthy environment. london, by contrast, seems to think that the rule when considering nuclear-waste dumps should be 'the further away the better', and regards scotland as the ideal place. the people of scotland will simply not stand for this treatment and my party will continue to fight against this filthy industry.
mr president, first of all i should like to say to the two commissioners here – one of whom was in cancún – how well and hard they worked to get a solution to the wto negotiations. where do we go from our new position? mrs mann said, quite rightly, that we will have new people, both from america and from the european union. we must make sure that people understand the position in which the european union has put itself. commissioner lamy said in his speech that we have correctly reformed to move forward. how right he is. one of the reasons for the failure of the cancún debate was its use and misuse, for example by ngos. i have two press releases, one from oxfam and the other from friends of the earth, one of which states that the g21 today refused to accept european plans to expand the wto and bring in new negotiations to liberalise investment. mr rübig talked about small and medium-sized enterprises, the very things that are needed within the european union and within the developing countries to help them. they are the backbone of their future. the other press release mentions bullying. could i ask this august house whether our two commissioners look like bullies? have they been throwing their weight around the wto trying to bully the emerging democracies into submission? not at all. we reformed. commissioner fischler worked hard on the reformation of the common agricultural policy. that is the way forward. we must get the message across: the european union is there to negotiate. commissioner lamy has put forward 'everything but arms' in the new proposals that are helping these underdeveloped countries. we must get these points across and make sure that we have multilateral discussions with eu involvement. at this point, i must say how well the european parliament meetings in cancún were received, and how well we were supported by some of the developing countries. it is important that we play a strong and future-oriented role in the next negotiations. i rely on the new negotiators, whoever they may be, to make sure we get that point across.
commission. mr president, addressing the bushmeat crisis is of the utmost importance. as you know only too well, poaching and unsustainable levels of hunting threaten the existence of some of our closest relatives in the animal kingdom: the gorilla species, chimpanzees and other types of apes. this matter is clearly of concern to the general public, as nearly two million signatures to the petition suggest. it is also a matter of great concern to the commission, in line with the global commitment to stop biodiversity loss by 2010. we therefore welcome the report from mr de rossa, which i find balanced and to the point. we are working to address the issue in a number of different ways, but i must first emphasise the need to distinguish clearly between the bushmeat crisis – which threatens certain species of animals – and the everyday consumption of wild meat, which forms an essential part of food security for poor people in the developing world. we are well aware that there are several aspects related to bushmeat which go beyond the development agenda; these include health issues in europe, some trade issues as well as scientific issues. but since most over-exploitation of bushmeat takes place in developing countries, the best solution is to provide support for these countries through our development cooperation efforts and address the bushmeat crisis at its origin. this crisis can be taken up in the context of natural resources, rural development or governance issues, or as a cross-cutting issue to be addressed inter alia through environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental assessments. these assessments should identify risks and possible mitigation measures with respect to bushmeat for all development activities. in this respect, i am happy to inform you that the manual for ‘integrating environment concerns into development and economic cooperation’ will be finalised and made operational during the first half of this year. the revised manual should go a long way to ensuring that proper attention is given to bushmeat issues in environmental assessments and therefore in all our relevant development activities. the mid-term reviews of our cooperation strategies this year will be used to strengthen the integration of environmental concerns, in particular through promoting a more systematic use of country environmental profiles, strategic environmental assessments and as previously mentioned, environmental impact assessments. all this is fine; it may not constitute a very direct reaction but nonetheless provides the background necessary for proper consideration of the issue. national ownership is very important. in fact, activities aimed at curbing over-exploitation of bushmeat mean nothing if the bushmeat countries themselves do not take the lead. we can help with appropriate support-building capacity and with injecting the views expressed when we are revising country strategies, but the ownership of the problem is crucial. i would like to add a special point which is that peace is essential. if we look at the conflict in the drc and in other countries in the region over the past 10 years, the reality is that these conflicts have been blocking any attempt to create even a minimum of governance in relation to the problem we are discussing. soldiers and internally displaced people, refugees, have had no restriction, no incentive, no guidance, no punishment, no governance whatsoever on how to behave in this regard. it has been an area outside law and order and we have seen the terrible consequences. i would make this number one on the list of priorities and, in fact, i regard a peace dividend for the environment and for the bushmeat crisis as one of the many important aspects for securing peace in the drc and elsewhere in the region. the commission is not convinced that a specific action plan would be the best way to address the bushmeat crisis, and this reflects what i said about ownership. both the ec strategy for integrating environmental into economic and development cooperation and the biodiversity action plan for development cooperation are being reviewed this year. it is preferable to ensure that bushmeat issues are properly addressed in these two strategies, rather than to put together a specific bushmeat strategy which would require a lot of resources in terms of staffing but may not necessarily lead to additional action to address the problem. considering the multi-sectoral implications of the bushmeat issue, such an approach would not be the best one. many community projects in east, south and west africa take on this challenge in very practical terms. although spending on the environment as a percentage of the total aid programme is quite low, we have invested considerably in environmental protection and management in key countries. for example, in central africa since 1992 the commission has invested approximately eur 67 million in the ecofac programme for central african forest ecosystems, which pilots innovative, protected-area management in crucial great ape habitats. the commission is also funding work to control hunting and poaching in private forest concessions, and promoting eco-tourism in the region as part of its responsible management of the initiative. furthermore, we are working at political level to address the bushmeat crisis. for example, we recently provided a eur 500 000 grant to help launch the africa ministerial process for forest law enforcement and governance. although the primary objective of this process is to improve forest-sector governance and combat illegal logging, the inclusion of several important references to bushmeat and wildlife in the conference declaration will help to raise the profile of this issue. we very much welcome the initiative of presenting this broad-based engagement on the part of the public to parliament. this, in my view, is a very constructive way of giving this issue the attention it deserves.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, any petition which receives 1.9 million signatures deserves to be treated seriously. i congratulate mr de rossa on his excellent report and the way in which he presented it today. firstly, can the commissioner confirm that the action plan only covers tropical areas, and in particular the continent of africa, and does not in any way impinge on hunting in the european union, as some people are interpreting it? sensible action is vital and urgent for three reasons. firstly, as mr de rossa has said, at least 150 million of the world's poorest people regard wildlife as a vital livelihood asset. commercial hunting, the exploitation of timber and the opening-up of the forests are destroying the ecological balance and depriving local inhabitants of their food and livelihood. secondly, the totally indiscriminate killing of great ape species will wipe out gorillas and chimpanzees, which in countries such as rwanda are a major sustainable tourist attraction and source of income that will be lost forever. the devastation of forests will also obliterate an ecology if logging is not urgently brought under control. there is a third even more important point. the illegal exporting of bushmeat to all corners of the globe could have a devastating effect on health that would make sars look like the common cold. many gorillas and chimpanzees carry siv, the animal equivalent of hiv, which can jump to humans – and has done so. that would be bad enough, but if ebola-infected meat reaches the world market, we could see a catastrophe far worse than hiv. recently, 2 000 monkey noses were found in a suitcase at amsterdam airport, showing that the illegal trade is thriving. this resolution urges the commission to adopt a series of measures, which i hope it will. however, making heads of state in bushmeat countries aware of the situation and getting them, as the commissioner has said, to take the lead in action to safeguard ecosystems and the wildlife they support would be a major step forward.
mr president, i support the ideas behind the proposals in mr de rossa's excellent report and congratulate him on it. one of the issues we need to address is the definition of bushmeat. it is insufficiently precise. we know or believe that we are all talking about the same thing: primarily, endangered species, in particular the great apes. there is, however, a delicacy trade, which is for the consumption of bushmeat outside africa. it is clearly enormously difficult, both in africa and in south america, to prevent people who are starving or who have extremely limited amounts of food from 'poaching' in their neighbouring jungle. however, there are species both in south america and in africa that can be managed and could form the basis of an organised trade, with the appropriate safeguards. my concern is that there is a large market in europe for bushmeat. every year several thousands of pounds in weight of illegally-imported bushmeat is seized at london heathrow airport alone, most of it in an appalling condition. there is a reasonably large number of residents and citizens from the european union, and from african and south american countries who, perhaps legitimately, want to consume this if it can be provided on a sustainable basis. this demand will not go away any more than the demand of mr de rossa's irish compatriots for guinness will go away, wherever they are based. the risk is that we will drive it underground even further than has been the case. one of the options that the commission needs to look at most earnestly is the proper management of the trade, which would involve extensive and, unfortunately, expensive, surveys of animal populations, control of selective killing and, as far as the export trade is concerned, proper regulation for public health. as mr corrie said, driven underground, the implications of this trade for public health are appalling. it is a scandal that, in the interests of land management, american multi-millionaires can shoot elephants that need to be culled, whilst people of african origin are not allowed to buy and consume bushmeat in a managed trade. i thank mr de rossa for his assurance that this report does not and cannot refer to deer and elk management in europe. i would also point out that any references to high-powered rifles are unnecessary. there are approximately 20 million ak-47s in africa, and any control we have over rifles in the european union will make no difference. however, like other colleagues, i urge the commission to take action soon.
mr president, i congratulate mr de rossa on his report on the protection and conservation of great apes and other species endangered by the illegal trade in bushmeat. this report, as we have been told, arose from a petition signed by 1.9 million people eu-wide, which led the committee on petitions to produce its report. this was not, may i say, without resistance from certain political groups in this house. the christian democrats, many of whose press releases extolling the virtues of the de rossa report are today littering the press centre in strasbourg, initially voted against the report being prepared. we in the animal welfare and conservation movements welcome the late conversion of british conservatives to the side of animal welfare in this regard. the same is true of the green and liberal groups who to begin with also voted against the report being prepared. in the interests of public health, public safety and the protection of endangered species, we will be supporting the demands for the eu to use both carrot and stick to encourage conservation of these endangered species in their indigenous habitats, to enable local communities to find alternative food sources and to prevent the illegal importation of bushmeat into the eu. mr corrie's mention of the recent seizure in amsterdam of 2 000 monkey noses indicates all too well the extent of the trade and the suffering and devastation occasioned to these animals. we will not be supporting any of the three amendments, which we believe are misconceived and – deliberately or not – mischievous. mr de rossa's report is concerned with the illegal hunting of endangered species and in no way poses a threat to hunting in the european union, as the edd group amendment claims. apart from gibraltar, where safeguarding the apes might be a welcome way of deflecting a spanish threat, europe has no great apes. equally, the eldr group amendment is a contradiction in terms: there is no such thing as a sustainable level of hunting for critically endangered species.
mr president, i should also like to thank mr de rossa for his report. for the record, mr ford, the formal proposal to the committee to prepare this report came from me. it therefore cannot be said that the greens opposed it. i should like to highlight a couple of issues, one being the role of logging companies. there are proposals within the report as to how we could help them to face up to their responsibilities, given that, at times, they use bushmeat as an apparently cheap and readily available food source for their workers and their vehicles are used to carry poached meat. the proposal is to incorporate this into the european forest law enforcement, governance and trade process, which i welcome. secondly, the issue of importing into the european union and the highly questionable and grim circumstances surrounding it has already been raised. we could do more at this end, in terms of educating consumers and suppliers in the union, to help them realise what the effect of their actions is on the ecology and development in the countries of origin and to stop people from regarding bushmeat as a luxury delicacy, whereas what we are really looking at is the potential extinction of animals in certain places.
mr president, i wish to begin by again thanking the rapporteur for this very necessary report. i regret that mr ford wants to make this a political matter, because i believe this is something on which all political parties could work together for the greater good in order to stop this horrible trade. as we meet here in strasbourg, great apes, gorillas, chimpanzees and monkeys are all being hunted to extinction for commercial bushmeat. at the current rate, people are paying a premium to eat more great apes each year than are now kept in all the zoos and laboratories of the world. the shocking statistic is that if the slaughter continues at its current pace, the remaining wild apes in africa will be gone within the next 15 to 50 years – a long time, but it will soon go if we do not stop this trade. i pay tribute to dr brian carroll of bristol zoo, in my own region, who has worked with zoos across the uk to collect a stunning half a million signatures as part of the europe-wide campaign. we are facing a catastrophe that affects both the survival of our closest relatives and the people who rely on forests for their livelihoods. the biggest challenge now facing conservationists is to reduce the demand for bushmeat. it is essential that we maintain an education programme that will keep people from buying and eating great apes through greater understanding and awareness. however, we can do more here in europe. i am horrified by the scale of this sickening trade every year. tonnes of bushmeat are confiscated at europe's airports. we must have stricter controls at all eu ports and airports to stop such meat getting into europe – witness, colleagues, the devastation caused by foot-and-mouth outbreaks across europe. we had our own inquiry. foot-and-mouth is prevalent in parts of western africa. smuggled bushmeat could not only spark a new outbreak in europe, it could also expose our livestock to diseases and epidemics on the african continent. every kilogram of smuggled meat in the eu food chain poses a real threat not only of animal diseases, but also human ones, such as ebola. colleagues, your support for the conclusions of this temporary committee into the outbreak, and its demand for tougher measures to prevent diseases entering the eu was overwhelming, yet in my own country we have only six sniffer dogs to seek out this hideous trade. we are not taking this threat seriously enough and all member states could do more. endangered wildlife and habitats are a precious and irreplaceable asset. we must stop this barbaric trade before it is too late.
mr president, i think we should establish from the outset that the reasons why this lucrative illegal trade is flourishing are exactly the same as those at the root of both the illegal narcotics trade and of illegal arms trading. analysis of these activities demands a better understanding of the contribution which, as the commissioner said, conflict and weak governance in particular make to this problem, and we in the european union, as donors, should perhaps be more serious about supporting conservation and biodiversity projects. running alongside this, the efforts we make on conflict prevention and the peace facility proposed for the african union, etc. will play their part in addressing some of the concerns raised here today. this is an issue which has been regularly debated in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and which has consistently received the support of our acp parliamentary colleagues. they tell us, and we have had discussions with them, about the importance – also emphasised by the commissioner – their governments must attach to the priority of making sustainable management and conservation of natural resources a clear part of their national indicative programmes. that is something in which we have a role to play in the jpa, and in the committee on development and cooperation and elsewhere, because, unless governments make this a priority, i am afraid we are whistling in the wind. it must also be said that bushmeat provides a major source of protein. in some parts of nigeria, up to 84% of protein is obtained from bushmeat, which plays a significant part in people's lives. where access to wildlife is restricted, people will have to adapt and continue to adapt in ways that entail even greater risks. it is much better to talk about controlling the trade than to suggest we stamp it out. if we talk about stamping out the illegal trade in bushmeat, all we will do is drive it underground and make it much more difficult to deal with. the importance of bushmeat in the livelihoods of poor people has never been assessed. we have made a lot of pronouncements this afternoon, but there has been no clear assessment of the importance of bushmeat in people's livelihoods. i would end by saying that better management of the trade might contribute in no small way to our objective of meeting poverty eradication targets.
mr president, i too would like to thank mr de rossa for this very important report. the illegal bushmeat trade is devastating endangered species and habitats in many developing countries. i welcome and endorse one recommendation in particular: to step up measures to detect and prevent illegal imports of bushmeat into europe. incredibly, smuggling illegal meat into europe through ports and airports is still relatively easy despite the fact that this almost certainly caused the devastating foot-and-mouth epidemic in 2001, to which mr parish referred. the european union must set an example here and send a clear message to smugglers that any bushmeat they bring to ports of entry will be detected and they will be prosecuted. regrettably, this violent, profitable trade continues unabated and thousands of tonnes of illegal bushmeat, from west africa in particular, is slipping undetected into europe each year, with organised gangs going unpunished. it must be said that the united states is showing us the way here: anyone who has recently travelled through a us airport will undoubtedly have been confronted by a hardworking beagle sniffing every piece of luggage for imported foodstuffs. i implore the european commission to get tough with member states. finally i also urge colleagues to reject irrelevant amendments to this report which seek to defend local european hunting practices and will inevitably weaken its recommendations.
mr president, on a point of order, it was suggested by both mrs lambert and more indirectly by mr parish that i misled the house when i claimed that the ppe-de, eldr and verts/ale groups had tried to block the de rossa report from appearing on the agenda. while i accept mrs lambert's personal enthusiasm for this report and the fact that she proposed that it be drawn up, my criticism was of her group's attitude and that of the other groups. the matter was raised by the chairman of the committee on petitions at a meeting of the conference of committee chairs some time last autumn. they were opposed to the petitions committee using the rules of procedure to produce this report. the matter was referred to the meeting of the chairs of the political groups, where initially the only vote in favour of the report was that of mr barón crespo from the pse group. it took considerable heavy lobbying of the other groups to persuade their chairmen to change their minds and allow this report to be produced on the important subject we have in front of us today.
madam president, first we should congratulate the commissioner and echo for the aid provided. criticisms of eu aid are frequently unfair, and all the reports from iran suggest that the eur 2.3 million deployed by the european union within 72 hours using the primary emergency decision were both well received and well targeted. despite the gravity of the losses, a thousand lives were saved by more than a thousand international search and rescue teams, and this parliament should join with the head of the un team in bam who has described it as the best disaster response he has seen in 20 years. when we talk about south-south assistance we should at the same time congratulate the iranian red crescent for mobilising more than 8 000 relief workers, and, despite what robert kilroy-silk may say in the uk, arab countries, who have offered 400 million for the reconstruction of bam. it is not surprising that a humanitarian disaster at christmas time provoked such a huge public response amongst the peoples of europe, but it is right in this debate that we draw attention to the neglected emergencies which have not commanded the same media or public attention – in angola, for example, where the un appeal has raised only half of the 300 million sought, or mozambique, where the figure is 12% of just 1.6 million needed, or zambia, where only 10% of the required amount has been raised. commissioner, at the very least we need your assurance today that no money to benefit iran is diverted from these countries, where human lives are just as much at risk. finally, it is right to include in our resolution a message to the iranians that our international solidarity must be matched by their commitment to international human rights and standards of democracy. the procedure agreed by the iranian guardian council for the screening of election candidates does not meet those standards. of course, we in europe do not seek to attach conditions to our help, but we do join with the many iranians whose lives have been saved in wanting and expecting free and fair elections for their country.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i should like to thank you very much, mr varela, for your excellent own-initiative report. i agree with your analysis of the situation in the tuna sector. i believe that all the players in the tuna industry - from the fishermen to the processing industry - form a chain, and as we know, it is only as strong as the weakest link. the commission considers that three things are particularly important in order to support the interests of the tuna industry. firstly, we need to continue to have access to tuna stocks in third country waters. secondly, we must protect the interests of the tuna industry within our mandate in the regional fisheries organisations, and thirdly, we want to use our market policy to provide a safety net for those concerned. as regards access to tuna stocks in third country waters, our fishing industry can only benefit from the new form of partnership agreements, which parliament also supports. in your resolution you call for a study of the tuna sector. the commission is currently drawing up a kind of framework contract for the evaluation of the tuna chapter in each fisheries agreement and i would like to take your suggestion into account in this context. as far as regional fisheries organisations are concerned, i can only confirm that i am interested in strengthening the community's interests in the context of regional fisheries organisations in the interests of sustainable fisheries. we have a number of priorities which are in line with those of parliament. firstly, we also want to combat illegal fishing, because it is nothing more than unfair competition and the exploitation of stocks. our action plan to combat illegal and unregulated fishing has been supported by parliament and the council. it is a political priority for the commission and we have already taken initiatives in this direction in various fisheries organisations. secondly, we must adapt fleet capacity to the fishing possibilities. the community cannot accept an aggressive expansion of the fleets of third countries while at the same time its own fleet is subject to restrictions. thirdly, we need a medium- and long-term strategy for the sustainable management of resources. the commission has already taken the initiative in adopting multiannual framework plans in a number of regional fisheries organisations. examples include the management plan for bluefin tuna and swordfish in the atlantic and the capacity limitations for the tuna fishing fleet in the indian ocean. so, to the market questions. first of all, i would like to make it clear that compensatory payments under the common organization of the market must remain a regulatory instrument for crisis situations and cannot become a kind of permanent intervention scheme. i would remind you that tuna imports processed by the community industry are subject to an autonomous duty suspension. on the other hand, imports of canned tuna and semi-finished products such as tuna fillets are subject to a duty of 24%. this is the highest duty in the fisheries sector and has been in force for over 30 years. in addition, canned tuna and tuna fillets are considered sensitive products in international negotiations. as a result, few trade licences have been granted for it. the interaction between community customs duties and trade preferences has significantly promoted the competitiveness of the tuna industry. then you know that the community has already banned the import of products of illegal fishing. the commission attaches great importance to multilateral approaches in this area. we are therefore also following the recommendations of the regional fisheries organisations. and secondly, it is important that we apply the rules of origin and the health regulations for imports in a non-discriminatory manner. the commission is keen to continue its cooperation with the sector in identifying gaps in the veterinary control system. the responsibility for control lies primarily with the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products is not distorted. a distinction must be made between the responsibility of market participants and the responsibility of public authorities. the commission intends to take up this subject again in the near future. we will of course involve the european parliament and the tuna sector in our deliberations. in conclusion, let me stress that the commission is seeking dialogue with all the stakeholders. in this sense, we hold preparatory meetings for the negotiation of fisheries agreements or for the adoption of our positions before the meetings of the regional fisheries organisations, in which the sector also participates. this method has proved to be very effective.
madam president, i hope you will not penalise my speaking time if i add my protest to that of mr varela. as chairman of the committee on fisheries, i am fed up with the committee's items being kicked around on the agenda from one day to the next. it was on the agenda for this morning's debate and here we are now, with half the members of the committee who have asked to speak in the debate having to come back this evening. what way is this to organise diaries? firstly, i congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent own-initiative report. it was mr varela's idea that the fisheries committee should conduct in-depth investigations into some of the major species of fish, and what could be more appropriate than starting with tuna, a species of global importance now worth in excess of usd 2 billion per year. world production of canned tuna is over two million tonnes a year, while the trade in fresh tuna is also burgeoning. we held a special hearing in our committee on this issue, with many industry experts giving evidence. in addition, the sustainable development intergroup organised a seminar in brussels last november entitled 'tuna fleet and industry: prospects for the future', at which we had a wide range of international speakers. i wish to concentrate on one important aspect of the report, namely the aidcp – or agreement on the international dolphin conservation program – to which the eu is a signatory, as is the united states and most of the tuna-producing nations of central and south america. it is the most reliable method for ensuring that tuna is dolphin safe. i am grateful to mr varela for highlighting this in his report in a very positive way. he said in his report, 'the system for protecting dolphins in purse-seine fisheries established by the aidcp, ... is far removed from other private certification schemes which have hitherto been introduced.' i thoroughly endorse that analysis. one of these private certification schemes, promoted by the californian ngo earth island, has dominated the canned tuna market for some years. it is estimated that over 97% of all canned tuna in europe carries their 'dolphin safe' label. however, their 'dolphin safe' label is not turtle safe or shark safe. the method of fishing supported by earth island, in its current form, causes the death of countless turtles, sharks and other species and also kills thousands of young yellowfin tuna, discarded dead into the sea because they are below marketable weight. i very much endorse the support that mr varela's report has given to the aidcp label and hope the commission will push for this label to be used exclusively on canned tuna in the eu.
madam president, tuna is one of the most popular fish in the eu and also one of the most commercially valuable. most people's experience of eating tuna is through access to the canned product. however, fresh tuna has become more popular and is readily available to consumers in my country, scotland. that is why paragraph 11 in the resolution, stating that the product's origin should be identified and that there should be full and accurate information for consumers on the type of tuna packed and on the ingredients, is so important. as many of my colleagues have said, the accurate labelling of dolphin-friendly tuna is important in order to reassure consumers that what they are eating does not damage vulnerable species. this directly links in to the recent proposal by the commission on cetacean by-catches and the resulting protection of these at-risk species. the protection of dolphins and other cetaceans is of concern to many of my constituents, especially many schoolchildren whom i meet. that is why inspection of third-country products is important not just in terms of health, but also in terms of consumer information. this report highlights conservation-friendly approaches and i welcome it as a basis for sustainable fishing.
madam president, may i firstly say that i do not blame you personally, but many colleagues have not been able to speak in the debate because they have left the chamber while we wait for another commissioner. commissioner fischler is sitting patiently, listening to our debate, and half our colleagues have been unable to contribute to it. this is no way to organise business. this debate should now be finished and persons on the list should be recalled to speak. before i make my points to the rapporteur, i would ask you to deduct the 38 seconds i have just spoken for. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his comprehensive report. many of the points he raises are certainly to be welcomed. i was particularly pleased with the emphasis placed on the need to prevent incidental mortality among dolphins and other species associated with tuna fisheries. aside from tuna fishing, many dolphins are being washed up dead in my own area of the south-west because of pair trawling. this is therefore an important issue. i was also happy to hear the rapporteur insisting that products from third countries should meet the same food safety and quality standards as our own. this is something for which we on the committee on agriculture and rural development have campaigned hard with regard to farm products. the same should naturally apply to fisheries products. our consumers have a right to safe food, and third-country imports must be of the same high standard. commissioner fischler spoke about third-country agreements. i am always worried about these agreements because, although many new agreements include conservation measures, there is little conservation to be seen in reality. what is happening off the coast of africa is much more than exploitation of waters. i believe we are threatening the indigenous fisherman. if there are going to be third-country agreements, they will have to be much better monitored and we must be sure that fish are being caught safely and that our money is being spent wisely. my final point is that, with regard to labelling catches as tuna-friendly and purchasing dolphin-friendly tuna, we must be sure that practices are genuinely tuna- and dolphin-friendly, that there is no huge by-catch with caught tuna and that people do not purchase such products because they think they are both conservation-friendly and by-catch-friendly, when, in fact, a large number of turtles, sharks and dolphins are evidently being caught. this is misleading, and we have to be very careful when using the 'friendly' label.
madam president, i suppose that those of us who have remained can be thankful to commissioner bolkestein for being late. at least that has allowed us not to have to come back after 9 p.m. i am sure commissioner fischler is also pleased about that. however, this sort of thing should not happen in this house and we should organise our debates more efficiently. i welcome this very good report and congratulate the rapporteur on producing it. as others have said, tuna is as important to the southern regions of europe as cod and hake is to the northern ones, and those of us from the northern region can therefore understand the concerns. a very significant percentage of the catch goes to the processing industry, meaning that there are very many dependent jobs both at sea and on shore. up to 60% of the fish caught are canned, as mrs stihler has said, and much of that is eaten by us in the northern hemisphere. i, like many people, am very fond of it. however, there are major issues at stake here and they are of concern to me. we can only support sustainable and responsible fishing. i agree with mr parish and others who expressed concerns about dolphins. that is something of concern to many people in my constituency. ultimately, however, our fleets must remain competitive in the long term. we must have quality control and the size of fish caught must be closely monitored. the commissioner mentioned three important points, one of which is access to third countries. if we are going to have access to third countries – which is probably needed – it must be closely monitored and there must be tighter controls. above all we must rule out illegal fishing and protect those species under threat. we need a mechanism for both long- and short-term strategies for the industry, but these must take into account the requirements of the industry and be sensitive to the issue of biomass and tuna stocks. we must work for a more sustainable industry in the future.
the commission. as i said, the commission is not in a position to intervene in this way. it is not justified by any legal basis. i think it is important, however, that in future article 25 of the charter of fundamental rights, in particular the reference to the decent living of the elderly, should also be the basis for the associations of the elderly, to which mrs flemming referred, to have recourse to the courts and to have the possibility of intervention, in some cases, by the european union, but certainly by the state authorities.
i welcome mrs flemming's question and would also suggest to the commissioner that there is a way through. there is a sphere of competence within the european union and it is that of health promotion and illness prevention, which includes the illnesses and suffering that can be caused by elder abuse. i suggest we take a look at this. when i was responsible for this policy area in my home country, we did a lot of research, and a lot of research was done in the usa and other countries, to see how elder abuse could be prevented. very often elder abuse is committed by evil people who are perpetrating crimes, but very often too it is committed by people within families, carers and professional helpers who reach the end of their tether because they do not feel supported. people who would never have believed themselves capable of elder abuse suddenly find that the explosion has taken place, and that they have struck out and hurt someone they love. i suggest therefore that we look to pool the experience we have in the different member states in order to establish good practices in this field within the sphere of competence to which i have referred.
commission. the honourable member's question asks the commission to comment on progress achieved on the implementation of the tampere objectives concerning the development of a common immigration and asylum policy. the question is very timely since we are coming to the end of the first phase of the development of these policies, as detailed in the tampere agenda. moreover, the five-year deadline set out in the amsterdam treaty for the realisation of certain objectives, notably with respect to asylum policy, will be reached on 1 may 2004. the annual parliamentary debate on the development of an area of freedom, security and justice, which will take place during the february part-session, will be the first opportunity to discuss with parliament the assessment of our policies in these fields. in june 2004, the commission intends to present to the european parliament and to the council a communication which will evaluate the progress made in implementing the tampere objectives. this communication will include an evaluation of all aspects concerning immigration, asylum, the integration of immigrants in our societies and the development of relations with third countries. i hope that this communication will also be able to include some guidelines for what could, in the near future, become a 'tampere ii' agenda.
thank you commissioner for that comprehensive answer. i do not want to pre-empt the commission's june 2004 communication, but would like to ask the commissioner's personal view on whether he is hopeful that, within that communication, some progress on the links between member states and the european union and sending countries will be established. he may know that the issue of managed migration is now coming to the fore of the agenda in the european union, partly due to his work and that of many others. i would like to ask his personal opinion on whether he thinks, when the communication is finally published, that he or anyone else will have some positive news to give us on the issue of managed migration and the specific partnerships between our countries and others. he may know of examples concerning the united kingdom and the philippines, which has sent health workers, and issues of that nature. does he have anything to say about that?
commission. i thank you for that supplementary question because it allows me to say that i hope that parliament and the council will, in the interim, have concluded an agreement on the adoption of a regulation concerning the multiannual programme to finance partnerships with third countries in the shared management of migratory fluxes. over the next 5 years eur 250 million will be allocated for this programme, and we intend to give priority in the assessment of this financial instrument to those countries engaged in negotiating readmission agreements with the european union. the second strand will be a report – which the commission will present to the council in april – concerning links between legal and illegal migration, which will above all set out the conclusions of the study currently being undertaken by the commission into the possibility of establishing some kind of system for coordinating legal migration in the member states. such a system could be helpful to third countries in their partnerships aiming to combat trafficking in human beings and illegal migration. the third strand will be the report that the commission will present to the council by june 2005, in which it will consider new ways of enhancing international protection and, above all, the possibility of establishing europe-wide resettlement schemes and providing improved protection in the region for refugees. i hope i will have some progress to report to you in all those areas when i come back in june for the global assessment of the tampere agenda.
as ever, i have listened with admiration to the presentation and comments by the commissioner. he spoke about managing migration and legal migration. could he take the opportunity, in the light of the hysteria in some areas of the british press about what will happen in terms of migration when enlargement takes place, to outline some of the initiatives i know he has put in place that will ensure that migration from the new eastern european members of the european union will be sensible, and controlled in such a way that it will be mutually beneficial to the citizens of those countries and to the existing member states of the european union?
commission. i thank mr bushill-matthews for his question on this issue. the commission is not aware of specific breaches of the eu plant health directive by the netherlands. indeed, council directive 2000/29/ec, which is the basis of the community plant health regime, has been fully transposed by the netherlands. i assume that the honourable member’s question is motivated by the finding of potato ring rot in seed potatoes in wales, as his question was not directed to any specific issue. these potatoes are grown from seeds imported from the netherlands, as occurred in 2002. i can confirm that directive 93/85/ec on the control of ring rot has also been transposed by the dutch authorities. when notified by the uk authorities of this outbreak, the commission immediately examined the information supplied by uk with great attention. the commission gave the uk the opportunity to inform other member states in the latest meetings of the standing committee on plant health in november and december 2003. the origin of the outbreak is, however, still being investigated and it is too early to draw any firm conclusions. i would like to underline that the food and veterinary office of the commission has carried out a series of audit missions in the member states in recent years in order to clearly assess the situation of potato production in the community. i can assure the honourable member that the commission will continue to follow the situation very closely. the commission is at this stage satisfied with the preventive actions taken by the united kingdom, as a follow-up of the outbreak, as well as with the current investigations launched by both the united kingdom and the netherlands in order to identify the possible origins and pathways of the disease. turning to the question on compensation, under existing community legislation there is a possibility for a financial contribution referred to as 'solidarity' to be granted to member states. it is intended to cover expenditure for the necessary measures to combat organisms harmful to plants introduced from other areas in the community. the commission has informed the welsh representation in brussels of the existence of this contribution and of the practical procedures to follow should it wish to make an application for such compensation. upon receipt of any file, the commission will verify if community requirements to grant such a contribution have been met.
i thank the commissioner for that very clear answer. i would like to extend the question – and my apologies for not making it clear to him earlier – that this is not just about potato ring rot but also about a disease called ramorum dieback or sudden oak death, which was first seen in the eu in the netherlands in 1997, but has now reached the uk. it is found in rhododendrons, camellias and native tree species and, last month, it was found in wild woodland in the uk. it is clearly a major problem for our country. the biggest exporters of such products are the dutch plant auctions. it has also been alleged that some operators there have been spraying such plants with fungicide in order to mask traces of that particular disease, meaning that the disease shows itself at a later stage. i would be grateful if the commission could look into these allegations, in particular to see whether this breaches the plant health directive, because, clearly, the disease has now crossed the border. we wish it to be eradicated where it is and certainly wish too that no other country should suffer as some of our plants and woods are already suffering.
commission. let me first say that surveillance of hiv/aids, tuberculosis and cancer are important health issues for the community as a whole, and remain important priorities for me. however, the responsibility for such surveillance – for cancer screening tests – rests with the member states. the community’s role is to provide the appropriate framework for coordination of these activities, to facilitate the sharing and spread of good practice and to promote the development of common methodologies and procedures. to this end, the commission provides funding for the setting-up of networks that deliver standardised methods of collection and processing of information on diseases such as aids, tb and cancer at community level. once networks have been developed in this way, their participating structures should be in a position to continue routine network activities. the community should concentrate on the development of networking and the commission will continue to do so, within the present budgetary possibilities, until the proposed european centre for disease prevention and control is established. the member states must provide the resources to ensure that surveillance activities are properly pursued in their territory. the commission will continue to promote cooperation and coordination between the member states through the communicable diseases network. the funding decisions referred to by the honourable member will not therefore lead to a gap in surveillance. this is not to say that the community is not contributing to actions on cancer, tuberculosis and hiv/aids. we are already funding 15 projects on aids, amounting to a total contribution of over eur 4.2 million. we also plan to support a project under the 2003 budget to strengthen coordination of surveillance of infections in the northern region, including hiv/aids and tuberculosis. this will include russia, ukraine and belarus – all areas with worrying infection rates for hiv/aids and tuberculosis, and areas where improved surveillance must be a high priority, especially in the context of enlargement. on cancer, we plan to fund three projects from the 2003 budget, two on smoking prevention and one on cancer information, to a total of about eur 4.4 million. this is on top of the massive investment that has been made over the last 15 years in cancer prevention, which has already helped to make cancer epidemiology one of the most developed areas of health statistics. there were many valuable proposals made for the public health programme in 2003, which the budget available did not allow us to fund. i understand the problems faced by those that have been involved in the surveillance networks, the development of which the commission has financed since 1996. the commission has taken several steps to improve the situation. first, we have mobilised experts to provide advice on funding priorities for disease surveillance under the work plan for 2004 and for future funding rounds under the public health programme. secondly, we have disseminated guidance on projects concerning disease-specific surveillance networks to enhance quality and their potential for funding. thirdly, we are giving urgent consideration to the possibilities this year under other funding mechanisms, including under the research programme, for data compilation and processing on hiv/aids and tb, as well as on cancer screening. we should also remember that the 2003 budget is not the end of the story. future work plans under the public health programme, starting with that of 2004, will have the scope and potential to finance projects on cancer, tuberculosis and hiv/aids. the importance of ensuring continuity of support for key networks in the field of communicable diseases until the proposed european centre for disease prevention and control is established will be particularly stressed. my services are working to ensure that this will be reflected in future funding rounds. i hope that this provision, together with the many projects i have described and the coordination of surveillance activities we continue to provide will respond to the question put by the honourable member.
like the commissioner i think surveillance of these diseases is fundamentally important and that is why i am concerned that there should not be a gap. as rapporteur for the european centre for disease prevention and control, i know we are not going to have this up and running before 2005 at the most optimistic estimate, so it is the gap between now and then that i am concerned about. of course, the centre will not deal with cancer as it is not a communicable disease. it will deal with the other two mentioned. i know the commissioner has been looking for solutions to cancer, because he has discussed that with our committee in the past. nevertheless, i ask him to look very carefully at the organisations who have been doing the surveillance – particularly on tuberculosis and hiv/aids – and see how they can be supported over the coming two years. we are faced with a double problem in this area: one, as the commissioner mentioned, is the exponential rise in cases in eastern europe, and the second is the fearsome rise we are now seeing, here and across the atlantic, in a number of newly-diagnosed cases which are multi-drug resistant. potentially, there is thus a dual crisis attacking us from both sides.
commission. the debate about development issues and security does not result in a single choice about doing either one thing or the other. one of the key challenges faced by the european union is to make better use of all the resources at our disposal in the external relations field. this was recognised as one of the major tasks of the european convention. the goal of ensuring greater coherence implies a seamless and coordinated use of the common foreign and security policy and of all other external relations instruments, including the annual community budget for external actions of approximately eur 10 billion, of which eur 6 billion is official development assistance. we recognised long ago that development policy and other cooperation programmes provide the most powerful instruments at the community's disposal for treating the root causes of conflict. that is a fact that has been reflected in the recently adopted european union security strategy. the logic is simple, the logic is straightforward: one of the underlying causes of the disastrous conditions in which people in afghanistan and southern sudan live, for example, is conflict. if we are serious about tackling poverty then we must tackle conflict. there is no development without peace. that is why, at the request of our african partners, my colleague mr nielson and i have recently presented an ambitious proposal for an african peace facility to the tune of about eur 250 million to support the african union in its efforts to contribute to peace keeping.
you might expect a bit of an old hand in development like me – as you are yourself – to be somewhat sceptical about the possibilities that we can deal with, in particular the coherence issues related to development, foreign policy and other policy areas such as agriculture and trade in the european union. so there are still outstanding issues. you mentioned the peace facility, which, as an initiative from the european union, we of course welcome very much indeed, but it is my understanding that certain member states of the union are suggesting that funding should go through regional and subregional organisations such as ecowas, and i wondered whether you would agree with me that our view should be shared with the african heads of states, who say that finance, organisation, management and decision-making should come through the african union itself and not be devolved to various other regional organisations? finally, how would you assess the implications of the failure of the igc on the proposal – of which you have been very much in favour – related to the creation of a european foreign minister to manage some of these issues?
commission. i noted that when the american secretary of state, mr colin powell, whom i much respect and admire, was undertaking his hearings in congress before he was confirmed as secretary of state, he made a powerful case – i may not be using exactly the same words he used, but similar ones – against knee-jerk sanctions and against always trying to secure one's political objectives by cutting people off through sanctions. he has always been a powerful exponent of constructive and hard-headed engagement. i am not saying that he would necessarily agree with us on syria, but i think that is what we have been trying to do on syria just as we have been trying to do it on iran. it does not mean that we are simple-witted; it does not mean that there is not a spine to what we are trying to do, but, provided people will engage with us on issues like human rights, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and trade liberalisation, then we should be prepared to hold out a hand and try to encourage them. we have had a series of extremely useful negotiations with syria over the past few months. the commission has put a great deal of energy and effort into this process, as have the syrians. the syrians, on issues like tariff dismantling, have moved further and faster in the last few months than most of us thought possible. i negotiated, or virtually negotiated, the clause on human rights when i was in damascus a few months ago, and my excellent officials have been carrying through the negotiations on other things, including weapons of mass destruction. now the proposals that we discussed with the syrians ad referendum the council are being discussed by the council. the council will have to decide whether we should go back to the syrians and try to secure more from them than we have done so far. i have no doubt that if we can come off with a strong and sensible agreement with syria – the last piece in the jigsaw puzzle of our euro-mediterranean partnership – then everybody will benefit from that: everybody who wants to see a more prosperous future in the region, everybody who wants to avoid a clash of civilisations between the european, north american and islamic worlds and everybody who wants to see terrorism and insecurity tackled in the most effective and sustainable way.
commissioner, the word 'hope' appeared several times in your initial response. there seemed to be a certain amount of 'hope' rather than 'expectation'. could you give your estimation as to what you think we can get from syria as regards its relationship with lebanon as well as its occupation of that country and its support for hizbollah?
madam president, i should like to welcome the commission's proposal warmly, on behalf of my group and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. we have been following the development of this very closely. as the commissioner was kind enough to say, the commission has taken notice of a number of reports we have made. i was the rapporteur for the last round, and we are currently working on a new single market report. so we will have a chance to go into detail, and i agree with the commissioner that it would be highly desirable to start the debate in this parliament. i hope that my committee will be able to do that so we can start consulting a wide range of interests in this extremely comprehensive proposal. it is also absolutely essential to start the progress of this through the council. the political points i want to make to the commissioner tonight, and on which i would like his comments, concern the council more than anything else. i am pleased to see that we have one representative on the council benches. it is disappointing that there are not more. as the commissioner said in his statement, the crucial factor in getting this to work will be the willingness of the council to accept the basic principles of the internal market: a 'country of origin' principle for supplying cross-border services, the mutual recognition of conditions of establishment and sensible behaviour as regards grasping some of these issues. i do not need to remind the commissioner – although he may wish to refer to it – that the council's record to date in dealing with these issues has, frankly, been deplorable. the sales promotion mutual recognition directive – which is an integral part of this – has been with the council for 15 months. under the commissioner's proposal we face the position where we will be able freely to establish marketing agencies in other countries, but they will not have a common set of principles. i would like to hear the commissioner's views about how he is going to work with us to get the council to accept a serious timetable for dealing with these issues and how it is going to perform its part of the packages on the table. colleagues, if we do not have the support of the council we will get nowhere. this is the crunch time for the internal market. unless the council comes to terms with this proposal, then it is not serious about lisbon and not serious about the internal market. frankly, the council's acceptance of this directive is the biggest challenge that the whole lisbon proposal faces. the council must get on with it.
madam president, i want to comment on both of the commissioner's statements. i welcome the proposal on services. it is a great pity that it does not cover financial services. unless there has been a last-minute change, these have been left out of the general proposal, which is unfortunate because the general principles of country of origin and mutual recognition, which are found in the service proposal, are applicable in financial services, and it would have been good to have that reinforced by their inclusion in this proposal. the main thing i want to comment on is the commission's decision today to take the ecofin council to court over its suspension of the stability pact. this is a serious row, and it has just got a lot bigger today. it is a graphic illustration of the problems you inevitably get when you try to run a single currency across 12 different countries. those tensions will continue and only get worse, because it really is impossible to run a single economic policy which suits every single one of those 12 economies. those tensions will get more – not less – significant with the expansion of the eurozone and with the enlargement of the european union. i hope there is a satisfactory resolution to this problem, but at the moment it is another serious blow to the euro's credibility that the rules are not being enforced by the ecofin finance ministers. we were told that these rules were fundamental to making the euro work, the commission is being forced into this drastic action and the wrangle is set to go on for a great deal longer. in the light of the circumstances we have seen today, it is no wonder that people in the united kingdom, denmark and sweden are all saying a big 'no' to the euro.
madam president, like everyone else, i too can endorse the package that has been assembled as a compromise. i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this. the process for reaching a compromise has been very useful and speedy. however, like so many others, i endorse it with some reservations. over the last few years we have seen, at least in western europe, the levels of phosphate in drinking water fall by between 50% and 80%. it has dropped steadily since the 1980s. one of the biggest reasons for that has been the control of detergents. now we are opting for even tougher laws, i hope. we are going to see them applied over a wider area, from limerick – which mrs doyle knows very well – to new places such as latvia, nicosia and other parts of central and eastern europe. we can expect that all the rivers that drain into the baltic and the north sea will become cleaner. there will be far fewer bubbles in the rivers of europe than europeans have in their baths. these new measures, in terms of labelling of detergents and ensuring that they break down into safe components when they are discharged in the water, are not quite enough. this issue could quite simply be resolved and in many ways improved by the removal of phosphates from our laundry wash. this is something that we have not managed to do in this proposal. i believe that it is something that parliament would like to see happen and something which we feel the commission still has to address. something not mentioned by other colleagues is the continued use of animal tests to assess detergents. the practice cannot be accepted for much longer. the commission must set out a clear timescale for the development of replacement tests. it is long overdue. the commission appears to have missed its chance yet again. nevertheless i, like everyone else, will support the compromise tomorrow.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for an excellent report and for continuing to show her interest in and commitment to these issues. like her i welcome the commission's continuing focus on action against and treatment of hiv/aids, tb and malaria. the programme which was launched in 2001 has produced some very important and impressive results. we need in this report and in this parliament to reiterate the importance of continuing this emphasis on tackling these particular diseases in the context of our poverty eradication efforts. it is absolutely crucial to recognise the importance of this concentration of effort on these diseases, which, as others have said very graphically this evening, claim so many lives and cause so much suffering. i trust the commission will continue its efforts to build the necessary political will, based since 2001 on an increasing knowledge of what actually works in the field at this time. there remains a greater need for donor resources and for national resources, and the commission must continue to argue for more commitments to fight aids, to the programme and to the global health fund from bilateral programmes. i welcome the acknowledgement, as the rapporteur and others have already agreed in the report, of what is arguably the most neglected crisis spawned by the hiv/aids pandemic – the plight of millions of profoundly vulnerable children who have been orphaned by the disease. the numbers, as some of us have already seen in the field, are overwhelming the capacity of families and communities to cope. we are clearly facing a development catastrophe at the hands of the aids pandemic. there is no better gauge of its scale and cruelty than the orphan crisis. i urge the commission to compile data on the impact of all these diseases on children and women. all of these efforts will not be assisted by the dangerous misinformation pedalled by the roman catholic church with its pseudo-scientific pronouncements about the spermatozoa passing through the net formed by a condom. this nonsense, alongside us views on the need for abstention before marriage, is incorrect and quite simply dangerous. us policies are not saving lives: they are only pandering to the fundamentalist conservative voters at home. kofi annan has described the aids crisis as being an issue of weapons of mass destruction. there is a great deal to do, and it will require substantial funding from our programmes in developing countries. aids has to be a core theme of our development assistance.
madam president, when i wrote my report on hiv/aids two years ago, i was not sure what the outcome would be. however, i am delighted that the eu, the commission and this parliament have done quite a lot, as many speakers, including the commissioner, have said. however, i want you to focus on an african woman who is suffering and dying from hiv/aids, tb or malaria. if she were to watch cnn what does she see and hear? she sees the conflicts in iraq, congo, afghanistan, burundi, zambia, zimbabwe and so on. she sees loss of life, billions of euro wasted, including the eur 75 billion that president bush has pledged for iraq's reconstruction. this is essential, but it is a lot of money in relation to the us commitment of eur 15 billion over 5 years for hiv/aids, of which 10 000 people are dying every day. so, this lady sees terrorism in istanbul, new york and saudi arabia. she sees a natural disaster in iran – 20 000 people dead, a town flattened – and she says to herself 'i have tb, and yet i do not have ten dollars or ten euro to cure it. i am dying'. how does she feel when she sees all these billions of euro that we spend to renovate buildings that have been destroyed and which are then destroyed again? the pledges – which are very worthy indeed – for the reconstruction of iraq made by countries like the united states amount to eur 75 billion. what is their contribution to the fight against hiv/aids, tb and malaria? that is where the european union has been tremendous, very generous and is showing the way for the rest of the world. i also look to the oil-rich countries. what are they doing? how much are they contributing? if not, why not? what about japan and others? if we are to address this issue we have to be serious and put it into context, because the people who are suffering are poor, sick, oppressed, not free to work and live in harsh conditions. they have no water or electricity, they have no tools to till their land, and nor are they near the sea. what chance do they have? that is why it is important to refocus eu aid and to go back to the basics of life such as water and access to energy, because these people are already spending their whole day looking for water and firewood to cook their next meal. i know the commissioner is committed. he is brilliant. i know this parliament is behind him. let us go for it and make sure that this year and beyond we can achieve what we set out to do.
madam president, i agree with most of what has been said tonight. i should like to focus on the eu contribution to the global health fund. two amendments have been tabled to make it clear that we are talking about the eur 1 billion from both the eu and the member states. i am pleased that mrs sandbæk will accept that amendment. president prodi has supported this target. it sounds like a lot of money, especially at a time when public finances are tight, but it is not unrealistic. in fact, it is about one third of the increase announced this year for the farm budget in the eu, so it is not unthinkable that we can achieve this amount. we can afford it and so can the other developed countries. mr khanbhai asked what the woman who had these illnesses would think. what would she have thought, turning on her television last week, to see president bush announcing a multi-billion-dollar space programme of truly astronomical amounts? it is about time that we resolved the problems in this world before flying off in search of others.
commission. madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s support for nepad and for the african union. the new pan-african reality born with nepad and the african union deserves our special attention and full support. we must not lose the momentum created by recent major changes in africa, whose leaders took the initiative to extricate the continent from poverty and marginalisation, with ownership as a guiding principle. in fact, those whom i often call the heroes of nepad could be said to have demonstrated that ownership is something you take; it is not something you are given. this has been the real inspiration of the entire initiative. the commission is committed to supporting pan-african initiatives. we are in the process of building structured relations with the african union and nepad institutions. the european commission remains strongly committed to supporting nepad and the priorities and objectives of the african union. the presence of president prodi at the african union summit in maputo in july 2003 and the development of the dialogue between our commission and new pan-african structures demonstrate that stance. the fact that their administrative and executive arm is called the african commission is a pleasing comment on what we represent in europe, and certainly we are in the business of launching assistance for initiatives at continental level to demonstrate this close working relationship. numerous political contacts to date between the european commission and the african union commission have been preparing the ground for launching a strategic, structured dialogue between the two bodies. in tandem, a regular dialogue is being developed with the nepad secretariat. the establishment of other pan-african institutions, including the peace and security council and the pan-african parliament, affords new prospects for dialogue between the european union and africa as a whole. the other week the process of ratifying the peace and security council protocol in african union member states reached the point where this institution is now being formally launched. we look forward to the same development very soon as regards the pan-african parliament. at the same time, the european community is providing tangible support for pan-african initiatives. peace and security is of special importance here: it is a prerequisite for all development. the establishment of a peace facility to back african-owned and african-led peace-building actions will mark a breakthrough. leadership by the african union in this area has been essential and still is. i will dwell a little on the establishment of the peace facility. following the request by the african heads of state in maputo in july 2003 that part of their national allocations be 'shaved off' to establish a peace facility, the commission proceeded quickly. after intensive discussions with the eu council and our acp partners, they both gave the go-ahead for the facility. we are now entering a more operational phase in which we are preparing a specific financing proposal for 250 million euros; it is planned to be submitted to the next meeting of the edf committee. this is therefore moving forward. three fundamental principles underpin the philosophy of the peace facility. firstly, ownership is to strengthen the capacity of the african people to deal with african conflicts. we hope the facility will provide the necessary financial 'muscle' to accompany the political resolve of the african union and consolidate the continental architecture it has designed with the peace and security council as its key institution. secondly, there is to be solidarity through financial contributions from all african countries. thirdly, there is development, it being acknowledged that without peace and stability there can be no development in africa. we want to develop an appropriate response to the new pan-african context. we – the european union – still face the challenge of treating africa as one entity. our assistance to the continent as a whole should be set in a coherent framework. this calls, inter alia, for action to ensure that our national and regional cooperation programmes are consistent with nepad and african union priorities and objectives. this process is in the hands of our african partners, and the commission will make sure in the months ahead that it is reflected in our 'mid-term reviews' under the cotonou agreement and with regard to the other country strategies relevant for the rest of africa. the commission put forward concrete proposals in its communication on eu-africa dialogue last july to build bridges between the various agreements linking the european union and africa. that communication aimed to promote a substantive discussion on the most promising avenues and future practical arrangements for eu-africa dialogue and cooperation. i will conclude by saying that mr bébéar's report and the debate here today are welcome contributions to this discussion.
madam president, i should like to thank mr bébéar for his excellent report. nepad is a vision, a concept in the minds of african heads of state, covering the whole african continent, and sets out a strategic framework for africa's renewal. this vision must include a democratic voice via a parliament and the involvement of civil society. it is, however, the african union that should be the main instigator of policies laid down under nepad, based on regional integration. the objectives and principles are everything that we in europe would ask for and insist on, including eradication of poverty, raising the status of africa on the world scene, making good governance a basic requirement, building a peaceful, secure and stable continent able to energise its economies to take advantage of world trade, and trying to ensure that the millennium development goals in the area of health and education are met. in europe we are already assisting with all these objectives. we must continue to support and encourage the nepad vision, but action would speak louder than words. it will take very large sums of money to achieve these goals. one can only hope that the oil-rich states will contribute. with peace and stability, there are huge natural reserves that could also help them achieve their vision. with a peer review body, one hopes that the heads of african states will now take responsibility for their own destiny and that the problems of instability and poverty will be eradicated, with human rights being a top priority, especially for women and children.
madam president, nepad and its implementation agency, the african union, offer, as all of us would agree, no quick fix for the problems of africa. fulfilling the promises will not be easy and africa and, indeed, outsiders such as ourselves, will have to be in this for the long haul. as the report points out, nepad was initially and consistently intellectually scarred by inadequate consultation, particularly at grassroots level – it was leader-led. we hope that we will ensure that, as far as the african union in its future work is concerned, there will be far more consultation at grassroots level with civil society. perhaps the result of this, as far as nepad is concerned, for instance in relation to our last debate, is the modest reference in nepad to any kind of social sector issue. there is hardly any mention of hiv/aids at all, and this has to be a very glaring and serious contradiction in nepad's proposals for action. as the commissioner said, we now move on to working with the african union, which will now be given the task of working through the policies and implementing them. how will the commission support efforts to build the kind of coherence that will be necessary now between nepad and the au's strategy? is it of concern for instance that the peer group review mechanism is somehow now being increasingly institutionalised and separated off as a kind of separate secretariat? should this not be of some concern to us? the commissioner talked quite rightly about the importance of the peace facility. does the commission intend to offer commensurate funds for the other work – the self-led development work – of the au on democracy, human rights and good governance? will we be offering similar support for that work, which has to go hand in hand with the work that will need to take place on conflict resolution and peace-building? as the report says, it is important that the au is the legitimate political and mandated institution at this stage. peace and governance cannot be dealt with through declarations such as nepad. what we need now, as the last speaker said, is much better focus and action.
madam president, we have heard some fine words this evening, but let us recall that the new partnership for africa's development – nepad – was a bargain. on the one hand the developed countries undertook to provide billions of dollars in new resources, but, for their part, the african governments committed themselves to good governance, democracy and human rights and the rule of law. one fact is certain: without good governance in africa, increased aid will be of only marginal value. i note the commission's estimate, quoted by mr bébéar, that illegally acquired funds deposited in mostly foreign banks amount to more than half of african's external debt. i wonder what proportion of this stolen money belongs to mr mugabe and his associates. after all, it is mr mugabe and his zanu-pf cronies who have systematically pillaged and brutalised the once prosperous country of zimbabwe, brought lawlessness and starvation on its people and forced so many of them to live in fear and desperation. i hear of terrible new cases every day. unfortunately, many of zimbabwe's neighbours not only have encouraged the mugabe regime, but also have allowed mugabe to dictate the terms of africa's relationship with us. conditions in zimbabwe are now spiralling out of control. this house has called for effective action by the council on six separate occasions. to date, the council has failed to heed these calls. on thursday we shall insist yet again that we want effective action now! this means not just the renewal of the eu's targeted sanctions when they expire on 18 february, but also the introduction of tough new measures. south africa, in particular, needs to exercise some real moral and political leadership. after all, south africa is specifically responsible for the good governance aspects of nepad. i say to president mbeki that quiet diplomacy does not work. it did not work in getting rid of apartheid and it will not work with mugabe. he has to get tough. i implore the african union and the african countries to use all the resources at their disposal to persuade mugabe and his clique to step aside. we need to set the people of zimbabwe free. let us be under no illusions: zimbabwe is the test case for nepad.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for producing this own-initiative report, allowing us to debate what is an important initiative. it is important because it is a home-grown initiative. it comes from the african nations. even if there are reservations, that point is extremely important. on our own continent, it was when we realised that poverty, unemployment, dictatorship and war led nowhere that we were able to form the european union and then move ahead. now that africa makes that political decision, hopefully it too can move ahead. in post-war europe we could not do it on our own. we needed help from outside. the rapporteur talks about the marshall plan in his conclusions to the report. the marshall plan was worth usd 13.4 billion over four years in 1948. that was a lot of money. aid has to be properly spent, but proper aid has to be there in the first place, alongside better free trade and the untying of aid to african countries so that money is spent on what is needed, not on the things that we would like to see it spent on. we can do a lot more in the eu to support this important initiative. i hope that the commission will play its role in making sure that we work alongside the african leaders, who want this kind of change, and in making sure that it happens.
madam president, the list of objectives for nepad is very long: it includes many different concepts such as conflict prevention, democracy and regional economic integration. the report by my friend and colleague, mr bébéar, is an excellent one. however, i should like to highlight that if, as he says, all these objectives were to be fulfilled, it would cost eur 64 billion per annum. i do not believe that kind of money will be forthcoming. as the last speaker said, whilst there is corruption, mismanagement, fraud and bad governance, we have to tackle the problem of poverty in africa. if nepad is a solution put forward by african governments, then there may be a chance. we have examples of bad management and fraud: we have only to look to the news a week ago when parmalat lost eur 10 billion in italy – a sophisticated, modern, western country! so it is not surprising that there will be difficulties in africa. i do not condone them; i have always objected to and stamped on corruption wherever it is, especially in africa. we need to encourage nepad, especially the conception, growth and sustenance of small- and medium-sized enterprises in africa, owned and run by africans using the natural resources of their countries and employing their own people, with the appropriate training and help that we can give them. that is the engine for nepad – the economic engine that can bring about development. first, it must be formed in their countries, support the regional economy and then go beyond to eu and world markets. that is what nepad was conceived to be. the roof may be the african union, the walls may be the pan-african parliament, but the foundation of economic growth and the eradication of poverty in africa has to be something like nepad. we ought to support it.
- madam president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, i listened quite attentively to the speech of our commissioner. i am sorry, but i did not really hear the answer to the clear and precise questions in this report. paragraph 45, if i understand it correctly, contains a question addressed directly to you, madam president: do you intend, yes or no, to present, on behalf of the commission, a communication to the council and parliament, which would specifically deal with a unesco convention for cultural diversity? i understand that you have spoken at length about this matter, but i do not know whether or not parliament was expecting a communication from you. and if so, can you tell me when it is scheduled to take place this year?
mr president, president-in- office, at the beginning of the last century, a disgruntled writer from dublin went to live in italy. he wrote a famous novel in trieste, a city that some years after his death came to mark the southern end of a line which divided our continent for half a century. this year, under this irish presidency, that line will finally be erased. history, as stephen daedelus reminded us in james joyce's ulysses, is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake. the irish presidency is right to focus on enlargement. it is an historic moment: the final act of the revolutions of 1989. it is appropriate that a country which speaks for the transformative power of the european union should oversee that process. but we should not be tempted to believe that we can separate enlargement from agreement on the instrument designed to make that step possible. integrating the new member states into the lisbon process and schengen cannot hide the fact that without the additional framework of a new constitutional settlement we are simply changing the oil in a union which needs a new engine. liberals in this house welcome the taoiseach's strong commitment to advancing the work of the igc. december's tempers have cooled. europe's destiny is in an altogether safer pair of hands. this time, europe's leaders must choose to succeed. my group also welcomes the presidency's intention to sustain the momentum of enlargement by concluding accession talks with romania and bulgaria and by responding to the request from croatia. we, too, see this as the moment to achieve an historic settlement with cyprus. the presidency also rightly focuses, too, on the lisbon agenda in what can only be called its hour of need. most of the structural problems identified at lisbon remain obstacles to wealth creation. the political will needed to undertake reform and give the eurozone credibility has not yet clearly been summoned. the celtic tiger has long stood for the benefits of competitiveness and economic discipline. now it is time for you to roar in the council. we welcome the commitments on the framework directive on services, published by the commission yesterday, and on the financial services action plan. we welcome the commitment to work with the european parliament to secure the adoption of the trans-european networks proposals. but your modesty about what you can achieve must not obscure the need to resurrect the growth and stability pact in some form under this presidency. the presidency's assessment of our agenda abroad is also sound. we welcome the focus on african issues, on the holocaust of aids and poverty and hunger. we accept the need to work constructively with russia, although we expect hard words on chechnya and on russia's vanishing political pluralism. we welcome the attempts to rebuild bridges in our transatlantic friendships. but here the council's loyalty to european values means that guantanamo bay must be on the agenda of the eu-us summit. the eu must act together to demand conscionable treatment for all detainees in camp delta, including the europeans who have now been held for two years without charge. i welcome, mr president-in-office, your commitment to review justice and home affairs in the union. i hope you will not overlook the worrying amnesty international report on human rights within some of our own member countries. my group welcomes the presidency's political commitment to take the statute for members forward. that commitment must now be carried through into reform by both parliament and the council so that the statute can enter into force after the elections. mr president-in-office, your work programme is a worthy one. if my group could offer you a slogan for it, it would be 'restoring belief'. deliver a deal on the constitution and see in enlargement and you will have done europe, and ireland, proud. carry that spirit through to the european elections in june, to a pan-european campaign with a continental consciousness rather than 25 national campaigns, and history will give you rich reward. (applause)
mr president, the president-in-office of the council may find it strange that i should be welcoming the irish republic's presidency today, but i know that he will understand my intention because he is going to be so busy over the next six months that we will not have to tolerate his presence at meetings in northern ireland. we will be able to get on with our business, as so overwhelmingly decided by the electorate, and he can get on with his. we wish him a fair wind only as regards that particular issue. we in northern ireland have problems. the new president-in-office of the council has said that he would not tolerate having any members of the ira/sinn fein in the dublin government, but insists that we tolerate them if we are to have a government in northern ireland as part of the united kingdom. i trust he will learn over the next six months to become consistent and no longer tell us to accept something that he would not tolerate. i well understand his forced optimism today regarding the new constitutional proposal but agree with the last speaker that the union should decide on this democratically, with every part of that union holding a referendum to decide on the issue so that the people can voice their opinion. this would constitute a step towards stability and progress. realistically, i do not think there can be a mighty leap forward in the six months of this presidency. there are many things that need to be attended to. the president-in-office made a few remarks about human rights, which i think are a very important part of our agenda. on that subject, the matter of paedophile priests and their victims, which affects the whole of the european union, is one of very serious consequence to us all. i trust that this matter, which the president-in-office knows something about as it affects the country of which he is prime minister, will be attended to. there must be no cover-up and the problem must be addressed directly by this parliament and the european union. there are also other matters, like agriculture and fisheries, to deal with. the people whom i represent in this house were sadly disappointed and very angry at the attitude the government headed by the president-in-office has shown to the fishing industry. he will see the impact of that disappointment and anger in the days to come. as for agriculture, we know that this is an industry which needs all the help it can get in both parts of ireland. there is no use talking about helping poland into a position of power when that could be disastrous for the agriculture interests of other parts of the union. these are matters which the president-in-office of the council and this house need to consider thoroughly.
mr president, taoiseach, i should like to begin by wishing the irish presidency success in its work over the coming six months. you have set out a number of important priorities for action in the period ahead, not least that of kick-starting the lisbon agenda on economic reform and competitiveness. i want to concentrate today on the issue of the draft constitution and the situation following the failure of the brussels summit in december. however, as we have made clear on a number of occasions, the union must also get to grips with advancing the stalled lisbon process. ireland has made great economic strides in recent years, but throughout the union there remains a reluctance to embrace genuine economic reform. i was pleased to note in the press this week that the commission wishes to take forward the liberalisation of the internal market in services. such issues are worth tackling in the short to medium term but, as regards the long term, eu member states need to be more ambitious in their approach. however, my enthusiasm is tempered by the reality that liberalisation in areas such as medicine, legal and fiscal advice and employment agencies, whilst worthy, is essentially a distraction from the big picture of further liberalisation in the telecommunications, energy and financial services sectors. i urge the taoiseach to exert his influence over the union's agenda in the months ahead to promote real and lasting economic reform. if he sets the agenda, he will have our full and enthusiastic support. on the question of the draft constitution, which came to grief at brussels last december, i would simply say this: our view has always been that the draft constitution was moving the eu in the wrong direction. the aspirations of the laeken summit two years ago, when the heads of government expressed the hope that the convention would bring the union closer to its citizens, has singularly failed to materialise. i would in any case like to ask the taoiseach, in the light of the collapse of the talks, to answer one very specific question. in recent correspondence i have had with mr peter hain, the british government's main representative on the convention, he refers to the ‘treaty that we agreed at the european council ...’. does the presidency recognise that a treaty was ‘agreed’, or is it the case, as has been said before, that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed? we all need to have urgent clarification on that.
mr president, the tone of the debate in this house is clear: most of us want to assist the irish presidency to reach a quick settlement on the constitution through our political contacts, and with our experience of these questions we can provide both practical and moral support. the scheduling of the work of the igc is extremely important because, if it is scheduled and programmed properly, pressure will grow on the member states to take more seriously their collective duty to provide leadership for the european union. why not pencil into the calendar an igc summit meeting before 1 may? the manner in which the new commission president is chosen will serve as a further way of restoring political faith in europe. this is a function of the presidency on which the taoiseach was curiously discreet. how that person is chosen will be a factor in the fight to restore and strengthen the political authority of the commission. it is not simply a question of finding a single candidate. all the party political groups should find their own champion, and the procedure provided for by the convention could easily and simply be brought into early use by us all in june and july.
mr president, so, the irish presidency is handed the political hot potato of the draft european constitution. no doubt reconciling the egos of so many aged male leaders is going to prove quite a challenge; increasing public opposition to the constitution will not help either. i simply do not know whether a deal is possible in the course of the next few months. however, it is clear from the irish programme that with or without the constitution, this presidency intends to pursue a deeply integrationist agenda. yet more agencies are to be established, all without democratic accountability and all adding to remote, bureaucratic control. this new form of government simply does not work! from the common fisheries policy to the stability and growth pact, the whole system is mired in failure. sadly, the irish antidote to all this appears to be 'more of the same'.
mr president, mr president-in-office and mr president, i am very pleased that the taoiseach and his ministers are here today and that they hold the presidency of europe at this particularly crucial time. because of the failure to establish agreement on the new european constitution during the previous presidency, their first main task is to reach that agreement. i hope they will, because there is a clear need for a long-term constitutional framework for the new europe of 25 countries, which may well become even larger during this decade. the principles of the european union have served us very well and must be preserved in the new constitution: full representation of each member state in all the institutions – institutions which respect our different identities, and where we can work together in our common interest. i am confident that the irish presidency will work hard to secure an agreement capable of winning the support of all the peoples of the european union, in which all citizens and all member states have equal rights, there is no second-class membership and we all make progress together. a two-speed or a two-tier europe will not succeed in meeting the aspirations of our peoples. mr president-in-office, the work you and your government have done, and are still doing, for peace in northern ireland is outstanding. the european union is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution: the first half of the last century was the worst in the history of the world – 50 million dead. who, then, could have dreamt that, in the second half of that century, those same peoples would unite? the principles at the heart of the european union can therefore solve conflict anywhere in the world because those three principles are also at the heart of our agreement in northern ireland. accordingly, given our history of success in conflict resolution in europe, would it not be a very good thing if, during the irish presidency, you were to persuade the commission to set up a special department of peace and reconciliation so that, instead of sending armies to areas of conflict, a team of people equipped with the european union's philosophy and principles is dispatched to those areas, since today we are in a stronger position to shape the world? technology, telecommunications and transport have made the world a much smaller place. the european union could therefore play a major role in ensuring there will be no conflict or war in the world. the way to do that is to transport the philosophy of the european union to areas of conflict: dialogue developed there will enable agreement to be reached accordingly.
mr president, i also wish to welcome the president-in-office. it is certainly nice to see the professionals back in charge of the shop. the real challenge for this presidency, of course, is to deliver enlargement, and the difficulties that remain should not be underestimated. the new countries must be pressured by this presidency to continue the reforms necessary for their successful integration into the union. we must continue our clear commitment to romania, bulgaria and turkey to ensure that the enlargement process proceeds. enlargement is the challenge of the decade. it is not just a question of delivering enlargement, but also of making it work. enlargement could make or break the european union. frankly, without a reform of our decision-making structures, enlargement will break the union – it is as simple as that. therefore, we must have a constitutional treaty. i fear that many colleagues here today have underestimated the vested interests there are in some governments not to have an agreement, at least for the time being. how else do you explain voting arrangements that do not come into effect until 2009 causing the collapse of the igc? it defies belief that was the only reason. the real tragedy of this debacle is that it is distracting us from even more important work. the constitution is about how we do things, when our attention should be focused on what we do. key to that is the lisbon process, which is running out of steam, hamstrung as it is by a surfeit of generalities, a lack of specific targets, and by the member states' failure to implement what they have agreed to. in particular, this presidency must take forward the report by wim kok. we must have more and better jobs; we must make work pay; we must have a more dynamic social model aimed at getting more people into work – particularly those traditionally excluded; we must avoid having a two-tier workforce and we need a more productive workforce. to do this we have to set every government clear targets to be achieved. the new member states are used to annual scrutiny. we have to extend that discipline to the existing states. let us do more to put countries on the spot. my question to the president-in-office is very specific: how do you intend to take forward wim kok's very important report? because, more than anything else, if you deliver on more jobs you will earn the eternal gratitude of our voters.
mr president, mr president-in-office, you have rightly placed emphasis on meeting the expectations of our peoples. i can tell you that the people of essex and other parts of the east of england that i represent would like less interference in their lives by the european union. they want to run their own affairs. our businesses want to sharpen their ability to compete in global markets, not to be weighed down by unnecessary red tape and socialist regulation, much of which originates in brussels and is then gold plated by our own labour government. in particular they want a fair crack of the whip. the one aspect of the european union for which there is any enthusiasm is the single market, but british farmers and businessmen have always suspected that the odds were deliberately stacked against them because certain member states simply ignored the rules. now the commission has confirmed that suspicion with its announcement on monday that france, belgium and germany, those great eu enthusiasts, are bottom of the league for implementing internal market rules, and france tops the list of infringement cases. i think immediately of the long-running and illegal ban on british beef. you said you wanted to focus on the lisbon agenda. to give yourself a bit of breathing space, i suggest that the first thing you should do is kick the proposed constitution firmly into touch. the notion that the constitution was essential for an enlarged union is clearly a myth. it was just a vehicle for further political integration and that is something that our citizens simply do not want. similarly, they do not want european union involvement in military matters, complicating and duplicating nato and creating additional tensions with our vital transatlantic allies. the reality is that defence budgets are being slashed across continental europe and even the superb british armed forces are desperately overstretched and under-equipped. european union politicians playing bureaucratic games in brussels will not help this situation. finally, mr president-in-office, you rightly emphasise your intention to focus on practical human rights issues. one of the first decisions you will need to push through council is the renewal of targeted sanctions against the zanu-pf regime in zimbabwe. i would ask you to respond to parliament's demands on this matter.
mr president, i now raise a different point for the taoiseach. i want to follow the theme that he raised on safety, particularly with relation to health and consumer policies. first, taoiseach, i look forward to working with minister martin on the european centre for disease prevention and control, which is crucially important at a time of global disease threats and the threat of bioterrorism. second, i look forward to working with your presidency on the implementation of patient mobility. sadly, in the united kingdom, as a result of the failure of the british government's health policies, hundreds of thousands of people are waiting unacceptably long times for operations and treatments. this measure will give them some new hope of earlier treatment. third, in your speech you referred to people in sub-saharan africa: 30 million with hiv/aids, and 291 million living below the poverty line. i remind you of the inextricable link between health and poverty and urge you to ensure renewed momentum on health and clean water policies, and on debt relief. fourth, taoiseach, allow me take you down a long lane in the county of meath, to a small business situated there which is known as the food and veterinary office. that office controls and inspects the food, feed, animal welfare and plant health of the european union: of member states, accession states and countries across the world from french polynesia to the falklands. it is fundamental to the health and safety of our people. it has just 90 inspectors covering the globe and i ask the presidency to look carefully at that to see how this corner of ireland, with its eu-wide implications, can be made more effective.
in writing. – the irish presidency, viewed from a scottish point of view, demonstrates very clearly why scotland would be better off independent. ireland, a smaller country than scotland, will be setting the agenda and leading the eu decision-making process, while scotland does not even have a vote in the council of ministers. ireland will lead the process of welcoming ten new member states – many smaller than scotland – into the eu. these new members will have full rights of participation including votes on fisheries policy, while scotland is a mere observer. i wish ireland success in its presidency and look forward to the day when an independent scotland takes its rightful place in the world – better off independent!
mr president, since you invite me – and i have been provoked by colleagues – what is the point in running an assembly which indicates that votes are due to take place at 12 noon, but which then start at 12.40 p.m.? surely we should be able to manage our affairs efficiently. would you please carry that concern back to the presidency of parliament. (applause)
- i will.
- the next item on the agenda is the vote. report (a5-0412/2003) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the situation and prospects for tuna fishing, the fleet and the industry in the eu and worldwide (2003/2017 (ini)) (parliament adopted the text)
- we shall examine the amendments first and then the other reports, so that you have time to consider the outcome. before the vote on amendment no 21
- the services have noted the discrepancies, and i can confirm that the english version is correct. before the vote on amendment no 109
- the services are investigating the matter, but i have not received a request for a split vote. having regard to the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, - bono will be pleased. (laughter) after the vote on the amendments
- i didn't put part i to a vote. i have put amendment no 36 to the vote. i have not received a request for a split vote. we have voted on amendment no 36. each group has one vote, but the ppe-de group seems to have two votes. we shall now put the vote on the motion for a resolution on hold, unless there are any objections.
mr president, as we seem to be having a bit of a breather, i should like to ask mr corbett whether he feels that the voting procedure we have undertaken is in conformity with the new rules of procedure we drew up for this house to try and simplify voting. the amendments relating to mr nobilia's report, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, were voted in blocks. however, we are now having a very contentious, long vote on a report drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i believe is not in conformity with the rules of procedure. now you are asking us to delay the final vote. under which rule are you doing that, mr president?
- the rules of procedure provide for the postponement of the vote. that is why i asked if there were any objections. i do not want to give the floor to mr corbett, because i do not want him to be in charge of the plenary from the floor. we have of course acted in accordance with the rules of procedure, otherwise i would not have gone any further.
- colleagues, the rules of procedure are very clear. the rapporteur shall be entitled to request a deferral, unless there are members who object. since there are clearly objections, i give the floor to the rapporteur and then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution.
mr president, mrs sandbæk, the rapporteur, has agreed to change 'working' to 'being exploited', meaning that the wording would now be: 'this must extend to women being exploited'.
in writing. - i welcome the report on the green paper on universal service. it gives parliament the opportunity to outline the future of public services, which should not involve unrestrained liberalisation but a careful consideration of past experience. in some areas i have a different view from my colleagues in the socialist group. i believe that public broadcasting companies, which play a significant role in preserving cultural diversity and identity, should be exempted from the competition rules. the same should apply to charitable organisations providing a public service. finally, i would like to stress that there should be full support from parliament when legislation is reintroduced, and that means the co-decision procedure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, labour members of parliament believe that there is a need for standardisation of services and protection of workers' rights and other social, environmental and economic benefits, both at individual and collective levels. that is why labour members of parliament have voted in favour of the amendments which focus on these areas. labour members of the house believe that these issues should be decided at sectoral level rather than through the adoption of a framework directive. labour members of parliament do not want to stand in the way of liberalisation, but on the other hand do not want to weaken competition rules and regulations, which are necessary for the market reform needed to complete the single market and meet the lisbon objectives.
mr president, we are committed to safeguarding cultural diversity in the union and to promoting a pluralistic media. however, we abstained on the proposals set out simply because we believe that they are largely inoperable and that other instruments can be used in order to achieve our objectives. overall, we concur with the rapporteur on the desirability of linguistic diversity, the definition of cultural goods as a public good, the desirability of public sector broadcasting and the undesirability of media concentration. however, paragraphs 23, 24, 26, 29, 31, 32 and 33 unnecessarily pre-empt the unesco conclusions to be drawn in 2005, let alone inhibiting, as they do, the room for manoeuvre on cultural areas in the negotiations in cancun.
- the votes are in. (the sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very proud to be presenting this report today. this report is unique in that it comes from the employment and social affairs side of this house and which for the first time tries the joined-up approach pioneered at the tampere summit. i am proud to be presenting it because it joins up the issues of immigration, integration, employment and partnership with third countries: many of the most sensitive issues that we deal with in the european union, but also issues with which we must deal in a comprehensive way. very often in this house we have dealt with these issues separately and they have been sensitive separately. indeed, they are sensitive issues together. in this report i have tried to ensure the joined-up approach and have approached the whole task by trying to unify colleagues in this house around some key points. it is a key point that the demographic challenge that we face in the european union of the future is one where immigration may be one solution, but not the only solution. we have some amazing statistics. in the 25 member states, the working-age population is set to shrink from 303 million to 297 million by 2020, then to 280 million by 2030, almost doubling the old-age dependency ratio. it is the duty of this house to deal with these kinds of statistics. we cannot plan for the future and expect that immigration is not one of those solutions. if immigration is to be a solution, it must be joined up with the vital issue of integration. integration is often an issue which is misrepresented. it is a vital issue. we are dealing in this report not just with new immigrants. people coming to the european union for the first time to work may stay temporarily or they may stay forever. we are dealing in this report in a joined-up way with those ethnic minority communities in the european union – people like myself and my family – who are settled in the european union but who also ask member states for solutions to discrimination to ensure that full integration really takes place. this involves the issues of citizenship requirements, language and a plethora of other issues relating to new immigrant communities, as well as settled ethnic minority communities. we should be proud in this house that for settled ethnic minority communities, we now have – through article 13 of the amsterdam treaty – anti-discrimination legislation. there is so much in this report to commend to the house; it is difficult to name just one integration measure – there are so many. i urge the house and my colleagues across the house to look very positively at those integration measures for what they are. where we look at more sensitive issues – for example partnerships between the european union member states and developing countries; family unity and immigration – i have also been very sensitive in this report. i have tried to bring together the whole house in agreement that member states very often have the primary responsibility in these issues but that we should share best practice. that is vital because we are dealing with some issues which we know are politically charged and politically sensitive. the key achievement, i hope, in this report and the key achievement of the commission communication was not to deal with these issues separately, or to pretend that they could be dealt with separately. it was to take a firm hold on the tampere agenda, bring it back to this house, use the progress of the greek presidency which took many of these issues forward, and try to create what i would call a positive agenda. i know that there will be some problems for some members in this report. i have tried very hard to bring all parties together because this is a politically sensitive issue. integration is something that should be the duty of all of us to move forward. for that reason, i realise there are some sticking points. i have done everything i can – for example on paragraph 32 and the right to vote – to bring the house together on these issues. unfortunately, not all issues will be to the satisfaction of everyone, but i urge colleagues to look at the result of the vote in the committee on employment and social affairs: 27 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions. there was a general consensus around many of these issues and in the way they were approached. i urge colleagues to vote positively and to think of the people who will be affected by this report, people who we represent: both new migrants who will perhaps become european citizens, but also people like myself who are now european citizens but look to being represented properly in a report which is moderate, comprehensive and should appeal to all sides of the house.
mr president, anyone who has ever lived or worked in a different country or even in a town or city distant from home will have experienced some of the difficulties that may be encountered in moving from one environment to another. such difficulties become even more important when the change in linguistic and cultural context is a major one. yet history tells us too just how mutually beneficial migration may be, provided that it is appropriately managed. the moraes report tackles the issues in a way that is at once realistic, sensitive and robust. it makes practical suggestions. experience in canada has already shown a number of these to be effective in achieving desired outcomes. i am particularly grateful for the extent to which the report identifies problems for migrant women and measures to assist in resolving these. i am speaking too on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, mrs boogerd-quaak. unfortunately she cannot be here today, but she would like me to express her thanks for the support that her amendments received in committee. we rather regret that, given the degree of consensus the report achieved there, it has been opened up for amendments in plenary. that said, we can support the majority of them, either in whole or in part. we particularly support amendment no 10, which makes the report more positive to enlargement, and amendments nos 7 and 12 on family reunification. we do, however, have major difficulties with amendment no 4, which backtracks on the commitment already made in the charter of fundamental rights. finally, i would like to thank mr moraes for the work he has done to produce such a worthwhile report and express the hope that it gets the support it so much deserves.
mr president, i too should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this very rich report, which covers a very wide area. part of the problem that we see in the european union is that certain member states now see themselves moving from countries of emigration to countries of migration, and other countries are coming face to face with the fact that they have made a very bad job in terms of using the talents and skills of many long-term migrants and, indeed, second and third generation nationals, as they are now in some countries. in an ideal world migration should be a matter of free choice, not forced by circumstance, so we welcome the recognition in this report of the need to reduce the causes of forced migration. whether people wish, by choice, to come and help us out with out labour shortages and our demographic problems will depend on the circumstances of their welcome and the treatment that they receive here when they are resident. i welcome mr pérez álvarez's reference to the charter of fundamental rights and the positive position of many other speakers this afternoon. there are a number of issues concerning, in particular, the labour market and equal treatment, which form part of this will to come and work in the european union. the article 13 directives tackling the racism and discrimination faced by many migrant workers are extremely important, as are the issues surrounding access to the market itself and equal pay and working conditions – rather than the exploitation of cheap migrant workers. there is evidence in quite a number of european countries that certain industries rely very heavily on migrant workers whose status is often in doubt. we need to be very careful that the demands of our economy do not encourage the proliferation of poor working practices and the trafficking of workers. on the question of civic citizenship, we very much agree with that as it stands in the report. we support the current text, including voting rights. the uk experience, for example, is that a number of our local councils benefit greatly from the representation of first generation migrants.
mr president, i welcome this very good report and congratulate the rapporteur. i will say, however and i do not say this to reproach mr moraes, or as a 'turf' issue that it is a sad comment on the perceived definition of justice and home affairs in the eu institutions – that is, law enforcement and tough borders – that it is the social affairs side which is given the full lead on issues of citizenship and non-discrimination. we must place these human rights issues within the justice framework, as well as the social policy framework. the insistence on local and european voting rights for legal immigrants is a key issue. how can we possibly expect them to integrate if they are denied civic and political participation? an active approach to integration is overdue. the controversies over the wearing of the hijab, the muslim headscarf – or la voile, as the french rather confusingly say – show how acute the arguments can be. the fascinating difference between, for example, french and british attitudes shows that there is no one definition of integration. what we should be clear about is that it does not mean assimilation. integration is surely a two-way street in which all parties have to adjust to a dynamic and changing society. it is not a soft option; hard effort is needed not only from immigrants themselves – such as language learning and equality – but also from indigenous communities in accepting and learning from differences. finally, i hope all of us here and i know mr moraes does his best will try to persuade our national governments to stop populist and mean measures that only collude with media hysteria. for instance, if asylum seekers were allowed to work, they could escape the jibe of being welfare scroungers, which is unfairly thrown at them and which gives such a bad start to their eventual integration if they get legal status.
council. from our private conversations over the years the honourable member will be aware that i share many of her concerns in this particular regard. i am answering here in the capacity of president-in-office of the council. i will certainly take note of the suggestion that she made. it is a disturbing reality that we face. i accept that. i will certainly take note of her last proposition.
is the minister aware that even the authors of this report acknowledge that levels are so low as to be insignificant to health; that levels are a thousand times less than other radioactive substances naturally present in teeth; that most of the highest results were recorded over 250 miles from sellafield; that this material is more likely to be fallout from weapons testing, which has been present throughout the northern hemisphere for some years; that respected scientific and academic opinion in northern ireland – for which i was the minister responsible for a couple of years – as well as in his own country, contradicts many of the assertions of the irish anti-sellafield lobby; and that when all is said and done, this is little more than political scaremongering designed to wreck thousands of the jobs of my constituents in north-west england and to damage the livelihoods of those many communities dependent upon this vital and valuable recycling operation?
council. i am not sure that labelling a genuine concern as scaremongering is helpful. as i said at the outset, the council is not aware of the findings that the honourable member has drawn to parliament's attention. therefore, i am in no better position to respond to the supplementary question than to the original one, except to make the point that labelling genuine concerns as scaremongering is not helpful.
i would like to ask the president-in-office if he would agree that the original question tabled is actually factually incorrect when it talks about endangering the health of people in britain and ireland. in the report melanie johnson quoted from – and as mr atkins has just commented – the authors actually state that there is no health risk whatsoever: there is no correlation whatsoever here with the original question. in fact, some of the highest readings taken were 260 miles away from sellafield and some of the lowest were 50 miles away from sellafield. it seems ironic that these comments are being made when the uk department's own report stated that the levels were a thousand times smaller than those of other radioactive substances present as a result of natural sources. would the president-in-office not agree that the question was factually incorrect and put purely for scaremongering reasons, as sir robert atkins mentioned?
i wanted to suggest to mr roche – and it is a great pleasure to see him here after many exchanges at the convention – that the issue mr ortuondo larrea raised, and with which we are dealing here, is a profound one. it is about the role and place of countries within member states. the irish presidency, not least because of its interest in the problems of northern ireland, but for other reasons as well, ought to give its mind and invite its colleagues to give their minds to the issue of the adequate and improved representation of countries of that kind.
council. in conformity with the common position concerning restrictive measures against zimbabwe, the council has kept the situation in zimbabwe under review. on 28 november 2003 the presidency, on behalf of the european union, issued a statement on the current situation in zimbabwe, expressing its continued concern regarding the climate of tension in zimbabwe and calling on its government to respect the internationally-guaranteed rights of all zimbabwean people. the question of zimbabwe was raised in the eu-africa dialogue during the ministerial troika meeting in rome on 10 november 2003, where the european union again reaffirmed its readiness to engage in dialogue with the government in harare on the basis of established benchmarks. an identical message was passed directly to zimbabwe and other sadc countries during the meeting of the eu-sadc senior officials in brussels, held on 12 and 13 november 2003, and was again transmitted to south africa during the political dialogue meeting in pretoria on 8 december 2003. the common position, as adopted on 18 february 2002, expresses the council's serious concern about the situation in zimbabwe, in particular the recent escalation in violence and intimidation of political opponents and the harassment of the independent press. when reviewed in 2003, the common position noted that there has been further degradation in the situation in zimbabwe, where serious violations of human rights and of the freedom of opinion, of association and of peaceful assembly continue to occur. as already noted, the european union has remained extremely concerned about the further degradation of the situation in zimbabwe since then. the common position is up for review on 18 february 2004. in this context, preparatory work on recommendations to be submitted to the council has begun within the relevant council departments. these recommendations will be submitted to the council for discussion at that time.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for his answer. i am reasonably familiar with, and approve of, the irish government's strong position on zimbabwe. my question is about the rollover of the common position. i wonder whether the presidency anticipates any difficulties in securing the rollover of the existing sanctions against zimbabwe. am i right to understand that there are member states – and one in particular – which have a problem with the rollover that the presidency and others in the council would like to see? therefore, i am asking if you can tell me whether member states are likely to be of one mind on the rollover. second, would the president-in-office consider it appropriate for the council to now press for the extension of the list of banned individuals – a list of people who have sanctions against them and are not given visas – to include family members, people who have died or changed office and so on? in my view and in parliament's view – it is in our resolution on the subject – the list should be extended and reviewed. i should very much like your opinion on this. it is something of great importance to the european parliament and i look forward to your response.
council. my colleagues and i appreciate mrs kinnock's continued keen interest in this particular matter. discussions are ongoing. it would be premature at this stage for us to say where those discussions will lead. there will, however, be a review of the list and there may be some extension to it.
i should like to ask a very brief supplementary question to mrs kinnock's question. one aspect of her campaigning – which is increasingly affecting member states, including the united kingdom and possibly ireland as well – is that with the escalation of violence an increasing number of refugees and asylum seekers are coming to the european union. what is the irish presidency's view of this, given the increase in numbers and that these people clearly have asylum claims and are in distress, but are also arriving in great numbers? does the president-in-office have a view on this, given the new presidency, the escalation of violence and the inevitable increase in numbers of refugees and asylum seekers from zimbabwe to eu member states?
council. i thank the member for that. i agree with her that there is no point in making negative comparisons between our approach and that of, for example, the united states. it is a very fine agreement and i am sure the member has had the opportunity to read it. let us consider its aims: to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue; to establish the conditions for progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital; to enhance prosperity and economic and social development in syria and to encourage cooperation within the euro-mediterranean framework, and, finally, to promote cooperation in economic, social, cultural and financial fields. the point about this agreement is that it emphasises very much the european ethos, the european view of the way forward. it is a very positive development, certainly a development that the irish presidency welcomes and will work towards. there is no point in our making negative comparisons with anybody else – with the united states approach, for example. we have a dialogue with the united states on many levels, including the highest level. the middle east issue, the issue of the entire region and peace in the region, is obviously an important part of that dialogue. the matter of syria's place in the peace process will feature in the dialogue. again, i thank the member for a very searching and deep question which provides an opportunity to cover a significant number of important areas.
mr president-in-office, could i press you a little further on this? you briefly alluded to the issue of weapons of mass destruction, which, rather surprisingly, on 6 january 2004, president assad effectively admitted to possessing. could you tell me what kind of mandate you will give the commission to incorporate clauses that are specifically salient and relevant to the issue of syria's biological and chemical weapons stock, and whether the syrians will be encouraged strongly within these clauses to effectively dismantle them and avoid any proliferation of such dangerous weapons?
council. the precise details in that regard will have to be considered by the council, but there is a specific reference to countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. that is in accordance with the decisions taken in the external relations council in november 2003. you can rest assured that the presidency and the council have in mind the positive elements of this particular agreement in the context of the region and in the context of weapons of mass destruction in general.
it is interesting that you mention that you collude with or discuss with the us how you are dealing with syria and yet your policies are in such contrast. is that a sort of 'nice cop, nasty cop' approach to syria? i should like to ask, in particular, about lebanon. syria is in occupation of large parts of lebanon, its neighbouring country. what attitude do you take to this position as regards any furtherance of this agreement?
thank you very much for that full, helpful and informative reply. i should like to add my congratulations to the irish for the leadership they are showing on this difficult question. i attended the conference on organised crime in dublin before christmas, it was excellent and the irish showed great leadership. i congratulate you very much on the initiative you are showing. is there a chain of command for these liaison officers from the eu who are going to be posted in albania? who do they report to? do they each report to their own national capital? do they report to europol in the hague? is there somebody in charge? how is it organised? the great problem here with policing – as you must know even better than i – is that individual nationalities and forces are reluctant to cooperate. they each try to keep the information they have to themselves. what we need is much more coordination and cooperation, even between eu police forces. can you give me any assurance that this is happening? who is in charge? who liaises with whom?
council. the council recalls that, as foreseen by the presidency conclusions from the european council in seville of 21 and 22 june 2002, the european council of 12 and 13 december 2003 adopted the first multiannual strategic programme for the three years to come. the programme covers the period 2004 to 2006. it has been prepared jointly by the six presidencies ireland, the netherlands, luxembourg, the united kingdom, austria and finland which in turn will assume stewardship of the council over that period. they are collectively vested with responsibility for ensuring that the council delivers on its agreed priorities up to 2006 effectively and on time. the presidency found the recently agreed multiannual strategic programme to be a very useful basis for the preparation of both the annual operating programme and the irish presidency programme. the presidency considers it increasingly important that a longer term perspective be taken, with regard to the work of the council, beyond the six-month term of each presidency. in that respect the multiannual strategic programme and the annual operational programme are essentially tools in guiding the preparation of the presidency programme. this is a new departure and it is a very worthwhile and welcome departure. it gives a more structured basis for the on-going community relationships with the rest of the world.
i agree with what the president-in-office has said about the value of these tools and place on the record my welcome for the irish presidency programme in this respect. however, when he says that it is a useful basis, it would be instructive for all of us to learn what that means in practice. otherwise, is this yet another piece of bureaucracy with no real purpose or real difference? what is it in the irish presidency programme that is different because of the multiannual approach with the six presidencies together? has there been an area where special emphasis has been placed that perhaps would not have been otherwise? i wonder, in relation to ireland, for example – being a neutral country and not part of nato – whether the advancement of the security strategy, the planned intervention in bosnia-herzegovina and the defence capabilities agency are areas on which you will be putting extra emphasis. i would be genuinely interested to hear your views on those points.
council. i thank mr de rossa and i very much recognise the importance of securing an agreement on proposals to improve the rights of workers. i also understand precisely where mr de rossa is coming from in this particular regard. the point he is making is that one tries to raise everybody's position upward, rather than trying to create a downward movement. i accept the sincerity of his cause and i think he also understands the views of the presidency in that regard.
thank you, president-in-office, for your full reply. are you aware that whilst the council is clearly divided on this issue, this house is also divided? there are different views, as my good friend mr de rossa is also aware. the fact that here you have a uk conservative mep speaking in support of the uk labour government and against the opinions of uk labour meps shows that this issue is sensitive and rather complicated. i welcome your comment that you are going to reflect, but i urge you to reflect also on the phrases that you have put into this excellent document – the programme of your presidency – which i particularly welcome. on page 16 you mention the key challenges you are committed to pursuing: encouraging greater adaptability and flexibility on the part of workers and companies and removing disincentives to employment. my own view is that the directive, as drafted, would have done exactly the opposite and cut across the possibility of achieving the lisbon agenda. can i have your reassurance that the fulfilment of the lisbon agenda will indeed colour your entire presidency, as i am confident it will? good luck, sir!
- the next item is the report (a5-0419/2003) by mr pirker, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the preparation of a common policy on illegal immigration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings, external borders and return of persons residing illegally (com (2003) 323 - 2003/2156 (ini)).
mr president, as is customary i would like to begin my remarks by congratulating the rapporteur. this is done with a bit more sincerity than is sometimes the case as i can give great credit to mr pirker. if he had asked me whether it was possible to draft a report on immigration or asylum for our committee and win almost unanimous support for it, or bring it to plenary and find that with a few exceptions it was voted through, i would have said that would have been impossible. however, by sleight of hand and various other tactics, he seems to have managed to present something that is going to command support across parliament. he deserves credit for that, as do the commission and the council for the way it has been presented and brought forward. mr pirker and others have highlighted particular aspects and it would be easy to draw attention to them. indeed, there is a lot to concentrate on, but i do hope that this report is seen as part of a wider package and that we do not lose sight of our overall aim of moving towards not only a common european policy on asylum but also, in parallel, a separate and equally important common european policy on legal immigration. this is reinforced in points 16 and 17. i turn now to the aspect of external borders – points 2, 3, 4 and 5, etc. – and cooperation amongst member states. i take issue with mr blokland and mr sørensen, who claim this is entirely a subsidiarity question. everyone is affected by external borders, even in countries that do not have them. the very nature of migration is such that people do not stay in the first country they get to; they move around. so it is very important for all countries to cooperate and work together, especially, as mr pirker has highlighted, in an enlarged european union of 25 member states. as we ponder all these issues, it is equally important that we look further afield to those countries just outside the european union and bear in mind their situation, as well as that of countries further afield which are less prosperous and from which people, for a whole variety of reasons, try to move away. this picks up on a point also alluded to by mrs roure. if priorities and finances were directed towards helping these less-developed countries and those in internal conflict, we might be doing as much to address the challenges of migration as we are in all the post-seville and thessaloniki projects that have been put into operation. i welcome this report. it is a move in the right direction and i hope very much that it commands the support of parliament tomorrow. my final point is linguistic and i have made it before. i hope we can in future move away from the term 'burden-sharing' and adopt the term 'responsibility-sharing', because that, and cooperation, is what is involved here.
mr president, members such as myself have complained over the last five years that when the council holds debates, purportedly about asylum and immigration as a whole, it only ever talks about combating illegal immigration. i am pleased to say that mr pirker's report turns that tendency on its head. in a report responding to a commission communication specifically on illegal immigration, he pays a great deal of attention to how opening up legal migration channels can help combat smuggling and trafficking. indeed, in his report, on which i also congratulate him, there are 15 references to illegal immigration. that is nearly matched by 11 references to legal migration. this is truly welcome. like mr sørensen, i cannot share mr pirker's enthusiasm for a european corps of border guards. no-one seems to be clear what this means. mr pirker says it would just be a unit in support of national border guards and not a supranational body replacing them, but some commission documents suggest that the ultimate aim is indeed some sort of supranational force with power over national authorities. it is dangerous to start going down this route without having a clear idea about the final destination. obviously we need to have maximum coordination and exchanges to provide a more uniform level of security at external borders, but there is plenty more we can do about that before rushing into a centrally managed eu body that would raise all kinds of legal difficulties regarding border guards exercising power outside their own jurisdiction. there could be very practical problems. imagine, for example, the case of euro-guards stationed on a border where local pay rates were lower than elsewhere, and the resentment that would create among lower-paid local staff. we are already seeing that sort of thing in the balkans. finally, i urge the british government to recognise the contradictions in its own approach. it constantly lectures other member states on the need to strengthen external border controls, but refuses to make any constructive contribution to schengen or to support the common immigration policy. this ambivalence cannot continue.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow.
- the next item is the report (a5-0479/2003) by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the development of the service sector with a view to job creation (2003/2132 ((ini)).
mr president, i too would like to convey my thanks to the rapporteur. her report has looked at both the possibilities and the challenges of the developing service sector. it is a highly complex area, not least because there is a divide between services that are geographically fixed, either owing to where the clientele is or where the resources are, and those that are far more moveable. one of the future challenges concerns the way in which those services do not necessarily move within one member state or across borders, but indeed out of the european union altogether. this type of mobility, which we might not have sought quite so anxiously, will be a future challenge for us. i am very pleased about the attention paid to women in this report. as the rapporteur pointed out in the report, women are overwhelmingly employed in the service sector. indeed certain jobs are very heavily gendered, particularly in the public and care services. many of these sectors also have a significant number of migrant, black and ethnic minority workers, so they are important in terms of integration and social inclusion. we welcome the emphasis placed on the specific training needs required if we are going to provide quality employment. however, we need to look very carefully at how we avoid this huge divide that currently exists in the services sector between high value, highly-paid jobs and those which are poorly paid under intense cost pressure; how we allow people in those sectors to develop their talents and to find mobility is going to be extremely important.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow.
- the next item is the report (a5-0448/2003) by mr glasse, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of directive 96/71/ec in the member states (com (2003) 458 - 2003/2168 (ini)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the oral question to the commission (o-0076/2003 - b5-0417/2003) by mr hughes, mr de rossa and mr andersson, on behalf of the pse group, on bullying in the workplace.
mr president, the question has been circulated and i would put it to you and to the commissioner that action in this area is long overdue. we talk of psycho-social occupational health and safety risks, which would include violence at work, harassment, bullying, stress and anxiety, as new emerging risks. i am beginning to wonder how long we can carry on describing them as 'new emerging risks'. i was looking back through some of my old papers recently and i saw that the group of trade union health and safety officers i was working with at that time, in the late 1980s, was already using that description then. here we are, 15 years later, still using the same phrase and little, if anything, has been done at eu level to tackle these risks directly. i also realise on rereading our question that at least one element of it looks a little silly, namely the part that asks: 'does the commission intend to act rapidly in this field?' the answer is clearly 'no'. the excellent report produced by mr andersson and adopted in 2001 made two calls for action. it called on the commission to publish a green paper and action plan no later than the end of 2002. we are still awaiting a response. secondly, the report called on the commission either to extend the scope of the framework directive on health and safety, or to draft a new directive to combat harassment at the workplace. again, we are still waiting for a response. we would like to know what action, if any, the commission intends to take in this field. the truth is that many members of this house are becoming increasingly angry and frustrated at the disgraceful way in which work by the commission on health and safety matters has ground to a complete halt in recent years. the commission's health and safety strategy for the 2002-2006 period is proving to be the sham i suspected it would be. when i produced parliament's report on that strategy, i was seriously considering recommending its rejection unless it was accompanied by a detailed action plan. we received certain assurances from commissioner diamantopoulou and, as a result, we adopted a report which was critical but fell short of rejection. i now recognise that it was a bad mistake. exactly the sort of drift, devoid of action, which i feared has ensued. i do not blame commissioner diamantopoulou herself, but it is clear there are high-level officials in dg-employment that take a different view. this policy area is completely sidelined. the strategy itself touched on risks in this area. under the heading 'taking account of new risks', it says, 'the increase in psycho-social problems and illnesses is posing a new challenge to health and safety at work and is compromising moves to improve well-being at work. the various forms of psychological harassment and violence at work likewise pose a special problem nowadays, requiring legislative action'. on the next page under the heading 'the commission will', it says, 'examine the appropriateness and the scope of a community instrument on psychological harassment and violence at work'. well, we are still waiting. the work programme for this year mentions an instrument on violence but not on psychological harassment. my final point is this: i have heard it said that it is difficult to legislate in this field for the problem is too complex, diffuse or subjective. two member states already have legislation in this field: sweden and belgium. what that means is that it is clearly possible to legislate and that some eu workers have legal protection, while the vast majority do not. that is the clearest justification for eu-level legislative action. these risks are causing tremendous suffering and anguish among workers within the european union. it is high time that the commission acted.
mr president, i would like to make a few remarks in response to mr hughes' observations. i would agree, as i hope all sides of the house would agree, that harassment is a serious problem wherever it occurs. it may only occur on some occasions, in some companies, with some people, but whenever it does occur it is a serious problem for those people and must be deplored and indeed addressed. by harassment at the 'workplace' we do not just mean at the traditional workplace, between employee and employee, or employer and employee, but also at places such as schools, between pupils and teachers, where cases of harassment and bullying are increasingly common. however, in all those circumstances i fundamentally disagree with mr hughes on his key point that wherever there is a problem the solution always has to be legislation, and that wherever there has to be legislation the solution is always legislation at eu level. we need better management and we need to pay closer attention to the issue, but that does not mean we need a legalistic approach. we need a commonsense approach rather than eu law. i agree with the commissioner and think she is right to reject the criticism that was made of her and should continue to do so. it is true, as mr hughes said, that some officials in dg-employment take a different view. there are many people and, i hope, an increasingly large group of people who will take a different view. finally, and perhaps in a lighter vein, mr hughes talks about psychological harassment at the workplace. i face constant psychological harassment at my workplace, which is the committee on employment and social affairs, mainly because i constantly have to address reports by mr hughes. i suspect that legislation is not going to stop that from occurring!
mr president, i am pleased to hear such sensible words emanating from the ppe-de group. i must take issue with the commissioner. she says that my assertion that this policy area is sidelined is not true and then gives a number of examples of recent progress. i would remind the commissioner that the dossiers on optical radiation fields and waves, vibration and noise all date back ten years. they were part of the original physical agents proposal. i am glad that there has been movement in council, but these are very old proposals. i would say to mr bushill-matthews that there are new and emerging risks in the health and safety field. in my report on the strategy i said that guidance, training, information and a whole range of options could be adopted as a response, but i believe that legislation also has to be considered as part of the mix. finally, it looks as though i am probably in line for a mention in his next book as well, so i would just give these words of comfort to mr bushill-matthews: i am sure that if you simply agreed with me more often, the feeling of stress in the committee on employment and social affairs would evaporate.
commission. mr president, first of all, i believe this discussion is very positive and contributes to the need for awareness, not only on the part of the public, but also on the part of politicians, international parliaments and the social partners. i would thus like to thank the members. i do not accept mr hughes' last comment. yes, it was a very difficult directive, but it has been endorsed. it was not at all easy and the negotiations were a real marathon, but now it is a fact. we have already agreed on the vibration directive and now we are starting discussions on an optical radiation directive. do you know many member states that have legislation on optical radiation? with the combined efforts of parliament, the commission and the social partners, we have started to address the matter at european level. mr hughes said that nothing has been done and that the commission has done nothing either. we all agree that it is a very complicated issue in terms of defining the problem, in terms of legislating and in terms of achieving an agreement between the member states, because there are huge differences involved. i will not refer to the social partners here because consultation in that regard will start later in 2004. let us consider what is needed and what we have actually done over the years, particularly since the andersson report, which triggered many discussions and decisions. the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao has made it one of its main priorities. a study is already underway, the first part of which is about preventing violence and harassment in the workplace. a second research project has been commissioned. after much discussion and analysis and many studies involving experts, no real approach has emerged that suggests that the problems in question can be solved by legislation. in 2003 a campaign on bullying and violence at work was launched here at parliament. there are websites for each issue, and on them you will find contributions from analysts, academics, national agencies and the social partners, each with very different approaches. it is not an easy issue at all. it is not only complicated, it is very controversial. different trade unions, analysts and scientists all have different approaches. the commission cannot just come forward with a proposal for a directive without taking all these analyses into account. and, moreover, there is not a great deal of scientific analysis on these issues. after all these years of work and data collection, and after working with studies, i do not accept, mr hughes, that nothing has happened. we have put the matter on the agenda for 2004 and we will launch this consultation with the social partners. one of the major issues of the discussion is the legislative approach. at the same time, we are going to work with all the other options, including recommendations, guidelines and an awareness-raising campaign. i thank parliament. you are always the locomotive on this issue and that really helps the work of the commission. however, please take into account the complexity of the issue. it is not only a matter of disagreements between the member states: it is very complex and we have to take all the relevant issues into account.
- i would like to thank the commissioner and all the other members for their participation in this debate. it is not often that we in this parliament come close to a real debate. i think it almost worked out tonight. this meeting is closed. (the sitting was closed at 11.05 p.m.) the agenda for the next meeting: see minutes.
mr president, on a point of order, yesterday some colleagues will recall that during the vote on the herzog report i suggested that the president look at rule 130a. we had a mass of amendments to vote on. before that, we had voted on amendments to a report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. to make voting easier, however, these amendments had been arranged in blocks. rule 130a states quite clearly that where there is a mass of amendments, the committee involved should try to sort them out before they are put to the vote in plenary. i would like the bureau to have a proper look at rule 130a so that parliament's services can be instructed to ensure that the committees observe that rule.
mr president, just to build on my colleague mr provan's point of order, i should like to draw the attention of all colleagues here to the fact that 215 amendments have been tabled on the zappalà report, which we shall be debating shortly. to pick up on mr provan's point, under rule 130a it is the responsibility of all of us here, between now and the vote, to simplify the voting procedure. i am sure the mr zappalà would agree with that. we should take note of that lesson and ensure that when this is voted in plenary in february we have a much-simplified voting list.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, on tuesday this week in the united kingdom a dr harold shipman committed suicide. he was not just a statistic; he was a health professional who was serving 15 life sentences for the murder of 215 of his patients. therefore, commissioner, when we are looking at professional qualifications and seeking ways of facilitating professional mobility, as we should, we are not just talking about job opportunity or filling vacancies, or even individual professional freedom. we should be talking about the protection of vulnerable individuals: simple procedures, yes; riskier procedures, no. in britain, if you go to your doctor's surgery, you expect the nice new doctor from italy or lithuania or wherever to be qualified, and you assume that the proper checks have been made as to his or her integrity and experience and to ensure that the name does not figure on any blacklist for professional or other malpractice. the same applies to your dentist, your nurse, your pharmacist and to other professions, too, such as the architect who has built your house. hence, we were horrified to realise that the original proposal would have allowed any professional to go to any other eu country and practise there for 16 weeks without any authorisation, checks or vetting. dr shipman could have come to a surgery near you. having talked to british and european professional organisations, i therefore raised this in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which asked me to produce an opinion. this was adopted unanimously. it struck out the 16-week provision, it added article 152 as a legal basis for the directive, and it called for the setting up of a european database of professionals who have been struck off in one member state, so that they cannot practise in another. these and most of our other amendments, i am happy to say, have been accepted by mr zappalà and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. we are grateful to them. more importantly, patients and our constituents in every member state will be grateful if these safeguards are maintained. (applause)
mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group and my british colleagues, i very much welcome mr zappalà's tremendous work on a very complex text. i am pleased that the commissioner has welcomed many of the amendments that were made. it is important to emphasise the crucial role that this particular piece of improved legislation will play in our overall strategy for the internal market. we witnessed the welcome launch this week, by the commissioner himself, of proposal on the internal market for services. clearly the cross-border delivery of professional services by people whose qualifications are mutually and unimpeachably recognised, in a manner that addresses the issues of quality and consumer protection raised by a number of my colleagues, is an absolutely indispensable part of that move forward to complete the internal market. we must be absolutely sure to see this revised proposal in that context. in that connection, more work needs to be done on mr zappalà's report. i and a number of my colleagues on this side of the house feel that keeping the five distinct levels of professional qualification and the definition of them is important. we have tabled a series of amendments clarifying the package of qualifications that will enable professionals to move into each of the levels that are to be mutually recognised. i hope that colleagues across the house will recognise those particular qualifications. the other important aspect of this proposal is that we need to encourage more professionals to set out their stall for mutual recognition and to accept a common platform proposal to work together to develop that. that is something that many professionals need to do. at this point i declare an interest as a professional engineer. we want to develop a common platform for europe's engineers, but the one point on which i differ with the rapporteur is that his report seeks to impose a separate regime for engineers, devised from one particular point of view. that is premature. europe's engineers want to work on a mutual recognition platform, but they do not want one imposed by this parliament working in one particular direction. my colleagues and i will therefore be putting together a package of amendments that allows engineers to develop their own platform. i hope that is something which will command the support of a large majority of this house.
mr president, with great respect to mr alyssandrakis, i have to differ with him. in common with most other colleagues who have spoken in the debate, i think this directive is going in the right direction and that we should all be pushing it as well as we can towards a conclusion. there are points of difference between us and these are important points. the grand idea of simplification, of bringing 15 different sectoral directives together into one overall scheme, is really an extraordinarily important one, not just for the reasons which mr harbour and others have mentioned, because of the completion of the single market, but also because of our responsibility as a union to supply our citizens with reasonably clear and intelligible laws. if we can bring together the whole body of law concerning recognition of professions into a single coherent package, that is in itself a good thing in terms of the quality of the laws that we produce in this union. it is important not to lose the particular protections that apply to different professions. it would be a very bad thing if you over-simplified, as mr bowis pointed out, to the point that you get rid of essential protections. for example, in relation to the provision of services in the health professions by health professionals. all of us have to confess, taking the example that he gave, that we can have very good professional qualifications and professional disciplinary tribunals and still people such as dr shipman can get through the net. that just shows the point, and it is a point which mr zappalà was making, that the relationship of professionals to other members of the community is a curious one: someone who goes to a professional for advice gives herself or himself over to the power of that person because the professional necessarily knows more about the client or patient's problem than the client or patient does or can. you would not have professions otherwise. that power relationship between professionals and citizens is one which requires regulation of the kind we have been talking about. it requires proper structures for example, the kind of structures that would emerge under some of the proposals from the committees and subcommittees that will deal with particular professions within the grander overall framework. mr alyssandrakis said that we are engaged in an effort of levelling down. i beg to differ. as a lifelong provider of a kind of professional training, as a professor of law, i would be the last to disparage the importance of on-the-job, in-practice training as well as the importance of the kind of work that i have spent a lot of my time doing classroom teaching, tutorials and so on. what is important, and mr harbour mentioned this, is the maintenance of the five levels that we already have. there have been some proposals to refine these yet further. i would certainly deplore that. i think we have an 'understood' set of five levels and these should be retained. they should also be clarified. having read amendments nos 192 to 196 in the name of mrs kauppi, mr harbour and others, i think that does a rather elegant job and, in any event, between now and the final vote, it is up to us to try and bring it together in such a way that we get a clear, intelligible and workable package at the end of the day. the engineering case has been mentioned. there is a point here which we all share. with great respect, it is too soon to go as far as mr zappalà is suggesting at this stage. it is important that we get the engineers to a better condition of mutual understanding in the different countries and that we achieve a better situation so that someone who is entitled to call themselves an engineer in italy can feel that the same applies to a chartered engineer in the united kingdom, and vice versa. we need to develop a common platform. across the house there have been indications of movement towards agreement, and very important that is. it has been said that it is important in the single market to have free movement of labour to provide services. i agree with that. since the beginning of my time in this parliament, i have been involved in the case of the foreign language lecturers at italian universities who had four judgments in their favour over 14 years and who are still not guaranteed or granted adequate rights of access to employment on the same terms as italian nationals. that is just one example of why the work we are doing is of such vital importance if we are to have equal access to work and equal opportunity to provide services, with adequate protection for citizens and consumers across the union. i strongly support the direction in which we are going and hope we manage to get home to port at the next plenary.
mr president, some 15 years ago, as a young academic, i applied for and was offered a post at the free university of berlin. as a result of the problem of mutual recognition of qualifications, many months passed before i was able to take up my position. this directive must, i believe, ensure that professionals do not face the same uncertainty and obstacles i encountered in exercising the right, as an eu citizen, to exercise one's profession in the single market. moreover, if the commissioner's new plan for a radical freeing-up of the market for cross-border services is to succeed, the free movement of skilled professionals will be vital to it. specific safeguards are necessary in the health care sector. i too tabled amendments to abolish the 16-week rule. i thank the rapporteur and the committee for supporting those amendments. it is true that the rule would possibly have allowed bogus health care professionals and those struck off for malpractice to work in another member state without having to register with the host country's regulatory body. mr bowis mentioned the case of dr shipman, a doctor in my constituency who may have murdered up to 200 patients after forcing some of them to change their wills in his favour. however, dr shipman was not struck off for malpractice and he was never identified as a problem by the uk's own regulatory body. patient health and safety must be paramount, but it must not be an excuse to block the free movement of professionals. i know that commissioner bolkestein is sensitive to this issue. in the uk, the legacy of a conservative government is an acute shortage of doctors. it makes no sense to have barriers to free movement, but i hope that the final directive gets the balance right between allowing and encouraging the free movement of health care professionals, plus automatic recognition of rights for more than 50 categories of medical specialist – in particular much-needed cancer specialists, and continuing to safeguard patient health and safety.
commission. madam president, with regard to these two subjects, i will speak first on the kauppi report and then on the purvis report. on the kauppi report on mutual assistance, the commission made this proposal in response to the report of the council's ad hoc group on tax fraud. the group had indicated that the base directive, which dates from 1977, was in need of modernisation in view of the increased tendency for businesses to be organised in several member states and for individuals to exercise their treaty rights of free movement. nevertheless, any tax liabilities that arise as a consequence of those rights should be capable of enforcement by the tax authorities of the member states concerned. practices of tax evasion and tax avoidance across frontiers violate the principle of fair taxation, are likely to result in distortions in capital movements, adversely affect conditions of competition and affect the proper functioning of the internal market. this proposal adds to the existing tools available to tax administrations. it accelerates the procedures involved in obtaining information from other states' tax administrations. it makes it possible to carry out simultaneous tax checks in a number of countries where a multinational business operates, and it allows decisions and instruments to be notified outside the country where the tax is owed, so that enforcement proceedings may be pursued. as a measure designed to combat tax fraud and tax avoidance, i am certain that parliament will want to support it. those are my initial comments on the kauppi report. with regard to the purvis report, i should like to say the following. the commission welcomes the decision of the european parliament to draw up a report on the future of hedge funds and derivatives. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his initiative, which is very timely. these subjects, as we all know, are extremely important. let me first address the issue of hedge funds. as mentioned in mr purvis' report, various hedge fund products are already accessible to retail investors, either directly through stock exchange listings or indirectly through structured notes. several member states have already introduced a regulatory regime for hedge funds to encourage such undertakings to set themselves up under their jurisdiction. however, as mr purvis correctly mentions in his report, there is currently no european regulatory regime that is tailored to the particularities of hedge funds. there are at least two key questions: first, how to attract on-shore investments that are mostly off-shore nowadays. parmalat, inter alia, has shown the importance of that. secondly, what level of protection do investors need for this specific type of financial product? on this basis, it would seem appropriate to discuss the potential benefits of an eu-wide regulatory regime for hedge funds. as regards the second issue, derivatives, i agree that this is another crucial issue for at least three reasons. first, this category of financial instruments is developing at an increasing rate with endless imagination in the form of new products. secondly, most of them are traded on over-the-counter markets which, by their very nature, are less-well monitored than regulated markets by regulators and supervisors. thirdly, the risks attached to such instruments are potentially large because of their leverage effects. however, in contrast to hedge funds, which are not covered by european legislation at the moment, derivatives are already dealt with in a number of texts in different contexts such as, for example, accounting, icits, market abuse, investment services or banking legislation. it would seem neither necessary nor desirable to build a specific piece of legislation for derivatives as it is a horizontal issue. the best way would be to consider updating the current different pieces of european legislation on a case-by-case basis. however, full tax consistency must be assured. in the cases of both hedge funds and derivatives, mr purvis' final report is helpful guidance for the european commission. the commission committed itself in oviedo in april 2002 to examine specifically the issues of derivatives and hedge funds after the enron scandal. this commitment will be respected and mr purvis' report will be taken duly into account. the european commission will also have to take into consideration the conclusions to be drawn by the professional experts groups that we set up in late october 2003 to consider post-fsap priorities – priorities after completion of the financial services action plan. those experts groups may raise these two issues, among others, upon the first report scheduled for april 2004. it is too early for the european commission to take a final position on possible further legislative action regarding either hedge funds or derivatives. we shall have to analyse whether the parmalat affair resonates on these two subjects and we shall have to be attentive to the on-going debates in the united states on registration of hedge funds to ensure that there are no distortions to competition.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his considered views and i hope, even if he defers to his expert panels, that he will take into account the fact that this area most probably deserves legislation in the future. i shall run through the main reasons for our view of this. the first hedge fund was established back in 1949 and, as of now, assets under management globally are estimated at some eur 600 billion. of these, about 15%, or eur 90 billion, are managed from europe. even if european investment managers manage them, most of them are still domiciled in offshore tax and regulatory havens. there has been a huge increase in interest in this type of investment in recent years, especially in the united states, where affluent and moderately affluent investors have discovered them. many institutional investors now find it acceptable to invest in this way. this interest has now spread to europe, especially as many of these funds, because of their willingness to sell short and leverage their results, have performed well in absolute terms over the last three years of negative stock market performance. the media has picked up on this, and such performances are featured in the personal finance sections of the newspapers. as a result there is some concern that less and less sophisticated investors will be tempted to entrust their savings to risky offshore hedge funds by one means or another. even if most of these are perfectly respectable, well-administered and managed, there is only very basic regulatory control. eu regulators are concerned about the risks that may be run, while the investment industry is attracted by the commercial opportunities of tapping into this trend. we consider that it is an opportune time to introduce an appropriately light-handed regime in the european union that will attract those funds to set up within european jurisdictions. this view is further strengthened by the initiatives of certain member states, which have introduced or are considering introducing such facilitating regimes at the national level. ireland, germany and luxembourg are three such examples. another matter of concern in the context of our attempts to produce a single european capital and investment market, is that some member states impose fiscal or regulatory conditions which discriminate against investment into such funds in other member states. we therefore propose that a distinct light-handed regime be established which can accommodate the characteristics of hedge funds – and also, incidentally, other alternative investment vehicles which currently lack a suitable legal home at an eu level. we are looking for an arrangement which can provide these vehicles with an eu passport on the basis of mutual recognition. these funds invest in areas such as property, currencies and commodities. clearly these investments are not appropriate for everyone, at least until their awareness of the risks they carry are fully understood and appreciated. for this reason, we stress the absolute necessity of education, of clear and straightforward information and of strict regulatory control of those who sell and distribute such products. there is no reason to deny european citizens access to these interesting investment opportunities, but we feel their interests will be better safeguarded if these are available within eu jurisdictions and are subject to appropriate regulation. they will also provide opportunities for our european investment professionals to enhance their skills and build high-value businesses and jobs. capital will also be attracted to our businesses and industries here in europe, rather than in america and other parts of the world. a separate section of my report is devoted to derivatives. these are widely used in both mainstream business and industry and in the investment world. while they are often vilified as high-risk speculative instruments, in fact, they can just as readily be applied – and are – in order to limit and reduce risk. we have identified two main issues – mr bolkestein identified three – which deserve attention. systemic risks to the world's financial system could possibly occur because we have little or no way of quantifying the full extent of exposure. this applies especially to specialised derivatives which are dealt over the counter and tend to be less liquid than more conventional derivatives. this also applies to credit derivatives, whose use has exploded, as banks offload – for capital adequacy reasons – their assets onto non-banks including, incidentally, hedge funds. we therefore call on the commission, and the various international institutions, to develop appropriate means to measure, monitor and control such outstandings.
rapporteur. – mr president. the oral amendment aims to replace the first word in paragraph 1 – 'welcomes' – with the word 'notes', also adding the following from the end of amendment no 11: 'believes that the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in people must not give rise to a repressive policy aimed at immigrants in regular circumstances, but should, rather, target traffickers and employers who exploit those circumstances'.
rapporteur. – mr president, on paragraph 3 i have agreed a compromise amendment with the pse and eldr groups, as well as my own group, to add the following after the words 'the retail investor': 'when the different regulatory authorities at european level recommend it is appropriate'.
rapporteur. – with regard to paragraph 27, i agree with the socialist and liberal groups that we should replace the words 'high capital' with 'appropriate capital' and take out the last few words: 'as has happened during the various crises, including in the case of the ltcm crisis.'
commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mrs echerer, for taking the initiative to deal with this important subject. the resolution submitted to parliament today is very timely and tackles a key issue in the area of copyright and related rights. rights management refers to the way in which copyright and related rights are administered – in other words, the way in which they are marketed. collective rights management is generally handled by collecting societies, which act as trustees and usually enjoy an exclusive position in their respective markets. although the community legislative authority has largely harmonised copyright and related rights and a draft directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights is currently in hand under the codecision procedure, rights management has only been dealt with marginally by the community legislative authority. the economic contribution made by copyright-based goods and services to the community's gross domestic product is very significant. as a recent study shows, such goods and services represent more than 5% of total european gdp. consequently, the internal market cannot be complete unless the management of copyright and related rights is addressed. that is essential for investment, creativity, access to culture, cultural diversity, employment and growth. on the specific issue of collective rights management, the draft resolution is well balanced and reflects all the issues and different interests involved. i congratulate mrs echerer on that. the unanimous support which her proposal received in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market demonstrates that. the resolution points out that the protection and collective management of intellectual property rights are important factors in stimulating cultural diversity and creativity, but recognises the important role of collecting societies as an interface between rightholders and users and therefore calls for such societies to be more efficient and more transparent. it takes account of the characteristic features of copyright, notably its territorial nature, and the new environment for management of rights, such as the emergence of digital rights management. lastly, the resolution notes that national laws on collective rights management, where they exist, often differ greatly from one member state to another. the commission shares the approach followed by this resolution. the issues raised, in so far as they relate to copyright, are also dealt with in the forthcoming commission communication on the management of copyright and related rights in the internal market. in that communication, the commission will address all issues relevant to rights management, including collective rights management, and conclude that a legislative instrument of good governance of collective societies is desirable at community level. i hope that the commission will adopt the communication this month, and i am pleased that our two institutions share the same concerns. i assure you that over the next few months the commission will provide the necessary follow-up to this analysis and to requests in this field.
mr president, this afternoon i am speaking not only on my own behalf, as i have worked closely with the rapporteur, mrs echerer, but also more particularly on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, mrs fourtou, who is sorry that she is unable to be here to share in these comments. on her behalf, i want to begin by thanking mrs echerer on a number of scores. firstly, i want to thank her for quite rightly bringing this matter to the attention of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and then taking the initiative to draw up the report. this is very much to her credit, and in this matter she has been very keen to share her insight and concerns with us and to invite us to contribute to it. that spirit in which she approached the report is clearly shown in the quality of her work and, to echo what the commissioner said, it is a very well-balanced document. it presents all sides very fairly, but it does not shrink from making a number of important and sharply-focused recommendations. from what the commissioner said, i dare to hope that in his communication he will take on board a number of the points mrs echerer has made. so this is a very timely report. it also shows the benefits of having someone with strong expertise and background in a particular profession in this case, in the acting profession, on the stage someone who is a creative artist, who knows the subject, and of being able to combine that with the engagement of other colleagues. this question of balance and balance of interest is clearly at the heart of this report. the balance between the creators of works the producers and the people who exploit them and use them i prefer to say the customers, because that is what they are in the whole arrangement is absolutely crucial. that balance now is in many ways an uncertain one, because we are in such a volatile area of transition at the moment, not only with the explosion of digital content and digital distribution, and new forms of access to customers, but also with new creative works that are available for exploitation in the digital media world. for example, i have been doing work recently which has brought me into contact with people who are producing computer games and interactive computer games and the scale of that multibillion dollar, global business is producing enormous new opportunities for creators in every field, whether in illustration, music composition or script production. we need to encourage that, but we must make sure that we stimulate the development of those fields and that people are properly rewarded. indeed, as we move into the third generation of mobile technology, one of the major concerns about the providers of electronic communications services and they have said that to us in our capacity as members of parliament working in this field is that they want us to help get the framework for content delivery right and to make sure that we get the creative works out into the marketplace because they want those creative works there to stimulate their electronic communication services. this is not just an abstract piece of work. this is a further fundamental piece of thinking around the internal market. it relates directly back to our work on the lisbon process and to creating the most dynamic and knowledge-driven economy in the world, using the knowledge we have to link creative works as well. one of the issues over which we had quite a lot of debate with mrs echerer indeed mr karas referred to it, and much of what came from the committee on economic and monetary affairs and indeed from the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport was also included in our final vote is the question of the operation of the marketplace in connection with collective rights management. i was pleased that mrs echerer accepted our view that, in the internal market for services, and this week commissioner bolkestein has been here presenting a wide-ranging new proposal for that in that new proposal for the internal market for services, those elements of collecting societies' activities where they are directly providing services to their members need to be treated like any other service provision and looked at in the context of the cross-border market for services. that is absolutely right because, as mr karas said, increasingly the distribution of rights is no longer going to be centred around national monopolies. the customers and i come back to that word increasingly want that 'one-stop shop'. they want to be able to go and access rights for created products that will allow them to distribute digitally not just across the european union, but indeed in other major markets as well. that challenge to internationalise the process, to look outside the traditional borders of it, is something that the collective societies as we know are facing up to, but we need to provide them with the right framework and encouragement to do that. in conclusion, the key to that will be transparency of their activities so that all their customers can see exactly what package of services they are getting. to conclude, i echo what my colleague mr karas said, that i also heard with regret this week the news that mrs echerer will not be standing again for this parliament. so this may be the last chance i have in plenary to say publicly from our side of the house that i very much enjoyed working with her. this report shows the sort of open and progressive contribution that she has made in her willingness to work with us. as she moves her activities to another stage, or should i say back to the stage where she started her career, i am sure that all of us will join in wishing her well, thanking her very much for her work, and we can demonstrate our support for that by our unanimous support for the report when we vote later on.
mr president, it is customary for a speaker in my role to assure rapporteurs that we are right behind them, but in this case that would not quite be appropriate. in this case, the cart is firmly behind the horse, and she is leading us – as well as all the members of the committee and parliament – in the charge. we are very grateful to mrs echerer for having given us that lead. as was said in the debate, there is a kind of tripod involved in relation to copyright and related rights. one leg of the tripod is the copyright legislation that has already been adopted by parliament. the second leg is the enforcement provisions that we are currently debating, and the third leg is the issue of collecting societies and the administration of copyright in the interests of rights holders. as commissioner bolkestein said, these are monopolies, but they are in principle benign monopolies because of the territoriality of copyright. it may be – and perhaps mr harbour and mr karas will explain this to me one day – that collecting societies can operate in competition with each other within a given domain or within a given country, but i find it difficult to see how that would work. if i am right, the point made by the commissioner earlier assumes tremendous importance, namely that we need to look closely and critically at the governance of these societies, which are in a position to 'rip people off' by charging unduly high fees for providing services to artists, authors and others. i am delighted to hear that the commission is to follow up the committee's initiative by bringing forward a proposal for a legislative instrument concerning the good governance of collecting societies. it is a proposal i await eagerly. i would like to make a point in response to what mr harbour said that also provides me with an opportunity to declare a minor interest. i am an academic author and a very modest part of my annual income, as anybody who reads the declaration of members' interests will know, comes from rights management on behalf of myself as an academic author. looking at it from the point of view of an author of that kind, the notion of the reader as customer is not as significant as mr harbour said. the critical notion – and this also applies to the arts – is surely the reader or consumer as audience. one is concerned about getting ideas across to people and getting them engaged in debate about ideas. from that point of view, it is a matter of total indifference to an author what or how much they get paid. quite the reverse. i and authors like myself have no chance of getting ideas to a wide public unless there are effective publishing systems – that is to say publishers who get paid for their activities. in that sense, this whole business of collective rights is for us more a means to an end than an end in itself. we should not think of it simply in terms of customers, but as an essential feature of the single market. we are delighted with the commission's proposal and, like everybody else, i am so pleased to have worked with mrs echerer on this.
mr president, on behalf of the pse group, i should like to point out that we will be supporting the joint resolution on zimbabwe. the zanu-pf regime is an appalling example of the repression of an impoverished and starving people. morgan tsvangirai – the leader of the opposition party, the movement for democratic change – has been put on trial under spurious charges of treason. the economic situation in that country has sharply worsened, with the gdp falling 40% over the last 4 years, and with inflation already at 600% and forecast to reach 1000% before the end of 2004. there is 70% unemployment and over 6 million people are in need of food aid. there have already been some reports of children dying from malnutrition, particularly in the bulawayo area. there has been a disastrous land reform programme – which no reference to the evils of colonialism can possibly justify – that has dismantled commercial agriculture without replacing it with any other way of producing food efficiently and effectively. the daily news – zimbabwe's only independent daily newspaper – is still closed, despite the courts ordering its reopening, and now the news editor and chief reporter of the zimbabwe independent have been arrested under the access to information and protection of privacy act. what we want is a renewal of the sanctions against zimbabwe, which are up for renewal by the eu on 20 february 2004. equally, we want a further widening and strengthening of sanctions against the regime, with the introduction of additional measures to make international action against the regime more effective, in particular the stringent enforcement of the visa ban. there will be a meeting of the eu-african union foreign ministerial troika on 1 april, and we hope that the eu will put it high on the agenda. we welcome the intervention by archbishop desmond tutu following the commonwealth heads of government meeting in nigeria, but would call on other african leaders to equally intervene and put pressure on mugabe to take action. we need the donor community to make available food aid that can be distributed through non-governmental channels; and we want the eu member states on the un security council to galvanise the international community into taking coordinated and effective action against this intolerable regime.
mr president, african countries have made solemn commitments to democracy and the protection of human rights on numerous occasions: under the nepad agreement and the acp-eu cotonou agreement, to name but two. however, the chaos and the oppression of the mugabe regime in zimbabwe has led to no satisfactory response from zimbabwe's neighbours, who seem deaf to the cries of anguish from the oppressed people of that country. not only have southern african countries been unwilling to exert pressure on mr mugabe, they have also allowed him to dictate the terms of africa's relationship with europe, and that is worse. the european union's relationship with both the african union and the southern african development community has been damaged by african states' insistence that banned zimbabweans should be included in meetings in europe. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has also been severely disrupted. this not only undermines the founding principles of nepad and the acp-eu relationship, but also means that major problems burdening africa – external debt, aids, food security, conflict prevention, good governance and human rights – cannot be properly addressed. conditions in zimbabwe are now spiralling out of control. there are terrible shortages, and oppression is increasingly widespread and brutal. a once prosperous country has been ruined and destroyed. african states' refusal to take the initiative on zimbabwe means that it is even more critical that eu sanctions against the zanu-pf regime be strengthened. this house has already called for them to be extended on six separate occasions. to date, the council has failed to heed these calls. the eu travel ban against the mugabe regime has regularly been breached in its first year and subsequently weakened to facilitate the entry of banned zimbabweans into europe. the resolution before us today calls for renewal of eu measures when they expire on 20 february and the introduction of tough new sanctions. it calls for the right of residence in europe of those subject to the travel ban to be rescinded, for members of their families to be barred from employment and educational institutions in the european union, for high-profile economic links with zimbabwe that have given the regime international prestige to be curtailed, for those providing financial backing to the zanu-pf regime to be identified, and for measures to be imposed against them. yet again this house calls on the council to respond to its clearly expressed wish: real, effective actions against the zanu-pf regime in zimbabwe now.
mr president, on behalf of the pse group, i can say we will be supporting this compromise text on the situation in burundi. we were all shocked by the brutal murder of monsignor michael courtney – the apostolic nuncio, and a man who had been playing a key part in the peace process in burundi – in a road ambush on 29 december 2003. all the indications are that he was murdered by agathon rwasa's rebel fln. despite the murder, we welcome the fact that the fln has now expressed for the first time a willingness to engage and meet with the president of the republic with a view to opening peace negotiations. last november saw the peace process gather momentum, with the signing, on 16 november, of a peace agreement between the transitional government of burundi and the forces for defence of democracy movement. yet fighting is still going on in several provinces, especially in rural bujumbura. the un secretary-general has rightly said that the burundians must experience an improvement in their living conditions if this peace process is not to be jeopardised. the human rights situation continues to get worse, and so we urge the african union and its member states to exert every possible pressure on the fln with a view to bringing them to the negotiating table in an attempt to seek a peaceful political settlement. we call on the un security council to consider the rapid constitution and deployment of a un peacekeeping operation to support the peace process at this crucial moment and to strengthen and complement the african union's peacekeeping mission, which has already been deployed. we also call on all states participating at the donor conference for burundi to make sure there are sufficient funds for human rights promotion and protection.
mr president, i speak in support of my colleague, mrs junker, who has spoken on behalf of the group. haiti is the poorest country in the americas; 80% of its population live below the poverty line. it has one of the lowest life expectancies, literacy rates and health indicators in a region which, as someone has already said, is itself rather poor. the political, social and economic crises have all worsened in the last four years. half the population suffers from malnutrition; there is difficult access to clean water and where traditional exports have collapsed, drug trafficking and corruption are flourishing. worse, the recently-formed haitian national police has been able to enforce the rule of law and has been severely criticised by human rights groups for its own abuse of protesters protesting against president aristide's rule and for failing to protect them from machete and gun-wielding government-supporting militias. we condemn all the violence and political assassinations. we call upon the haitian government, the opposition and civil society to engage in a constructive dialogue, possibly in the framework of a national conference to pave the way for free and fair legislative elections. we call on the council and commission to use all political and diplomatic means to encourage the haitian authorities, opposition parties and civil society to facilitate this dialogue. in the meantime, we ask for the restoration of the united nations mission working with the haitian police, the disbandment of the so-called special brigades – as suggested by the un special envoy – and the disarming of the militias. that would be the first step on what may be a possible path to a solution.
mr president, i also welcome the progress report from minister roche, my fellow conventionnel. it is clear that we are moving on – sharpish – from the fiasco that we had at the summit in brussels. i trust that it will be possible to reach agreement before 1 may. there are, however, three sets of problematical questions outstanding: the formula for qualified majority voting, the size and shape of the commission and the scope of qmv. it would be unfortunate if our obsession with those first two great patriotic questions obscured the third – the scope of qmv – which is in some ways more important. the italian presidency, mainly under pressure from prime minister blair, unfortunately retreated in several ways from the convention's modest and balanced proposals to extend the scope of qmv and codecision with the parliament. the italian so-called 'final compromise package' is not acceptable to the liberal group – nor, i suspect, to a majority of this parliament. especially objectionable would be a flight from qmv concerning the provisions on social security for migrant workers; the suppression of codecision from the clauses on the framework programme for research and development; the re-insertion of the national veto and the suspension of the legislative rights of this parliament in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters; and the unwelcome supplement to the progressive passerelle clauses of a right of veto for any single national parliament – a certain recipe for frustrating the decisions of the european council and for bringing on the ultimate sclerosis of the european political system. the irish presidency is quite correct in saying that all member states must move for the igc to be able to succeed and none more so than the british prime minister, whichever personality that might prove to be. (applause)
mr president, on behalf of my group, i would also like to congratulate the irish presidency on its approach and on the method it is taking, which i believe is the right one. however, my group is of the strong view that if, through no fault of its own, the irish presidency does not begin to produce results within a reasonable period of time, it will not be possible for our parliament to continue with ‘business as usual’. it will become increasingly difficult for us and for many member states in the council to act as if this is an issue that can be set to one side for many months and years. a solution has to be found quickly for reasons that my colleagues have already outlined. may i also ask the presidency how it intends to find a compromise on the difficult issue of the voting system in the council? the overall majority wants the double majority system, yet one or two countries are holding out against it. how does the presidency intend to bring these countries on board? what kind of adjustment mechanism or declaration is likely to be used to make this voting system acceptable to these countries?
mr president, as someone who is at least a quarter irish, i welcome ireland’s presidency. mr barón crespo is right: the british conservatives do not mourn the demise of the european union constitutional project and we give thanks for spanish and polish intransigence. as a document it was far too centralising and federalist in content for our taste, far too long and both prescriptive and inflexible. we say ‘rip’. however, i hope that ireland’s historic relations with the united states will serve to promote, if not a full, free trade eu-usa agreement – now that the wto, post-cancun, is fatally wounded – at least a common economic space for trade in goods and services, particularly financial services. much more also needs to be done to implement the lisbon agenda, as we see germany now saddled by a deep recession. this is not helped by an overvalued euro and a one-size-fits-all monetary policy. with the commission now taking it to court over the breaches of the stability and growth pact, germany is effectively hoisted by its own petard. with enlargement, these six months will be great ones. i wish the irish presidency all the luck for which its people are so famous.
commission. mr president, i wish to thank all members for their support of the commission’s competition policy, and even, in some cases, for their generous comments regarding this commissioner. i must say not purely as a matter of course but out of full conviction that the dialogue with this parliament and the support from this parliament apart from minor disagreements on specific occasions has been, and i am sure will continue to be, a strong driving force for the european commission in the area of competition. several subjects have been touched upon. i will not be able to address each of them in depth. however, it seems to me that there is a large consensus on the fact that competition policy is indeed one key component of the social market economy. by its very nature, it addresses the market component of the social market economy. however, it is also connected with the social aspect, even though on some occasions this might not appear to be the case. it cultivates the market dimension of the social market economy and is specifically of benefit to consumers. the comments from right across the political spectrum, from mr karas, mr rapkay, mr della vedova, mr doorn and others, although with different tones, fit into this general framework. of course, imperfections remain in the single market. i totally agree with mr karas. competition policy has to try to make the single market single and open and is therefore one of the driving forces of europe’s competitiveness and economic development. as mr rapkay said, competition policy is an instrument, not an end in itself – i totally agree. it is a rather delicate and sometimes powerful instrument, but it is not an objective in itself. if it were, it would not be such an interesting instrument to operate. mr rapkay also mentioned the need for the strict monitoring of state aid, but also pointed out that state aid should not act against the need for sustainable development. again i agree and, in particular, i would like to point out that some specific guidelines and frameworks in the area of state aid are almost explicitly aimed at sustainable development, for example those aimed at supporting renewable energies, employment creation and research and development.
- this meeting is adjourned. i have received a motion for a resolution at the end of the debate. see the minutes. the vote will take place tomorrow.
mr president, i want to raise the issue of various moves in some member states, notably france, to ban the wearing of so-called overt religious symbols. the spotlight has fallen in particular on the hijab, the muslim headscarf. in order to be consistent and non-discriminatory, any such bans would affect the sikh turban, the jewish kippa or skullcap, and christian crosses. such bans are misguided. apart from the purely pragmatic argument that if you ban something then people want to do it, there are strong human rights arguments as to why banning is unacceptable. i refer in particular to article 9 of the european convention on human rights, which guarantees the right to manifest one's religious observance in public. these guarantees are, of course, echoed in our own charter of fundamental rights. it must surely be arguable that a ban would breach the eu directive on equal treatment regardless of race or religion. before france or other member states find themselves condemned before the strasbourg or luxembourg courts they need to remember that a european model of integration rests on respect for differences and freedom to choose, not on illiberal imposition of uniformity.
- i shall see that your comments are forwarded to the president of parliament.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports on a single european airspace:- a5-0010/2004 by mr fava, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text of the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the creation of a single european airspace (the 'framework regulation') (pe-cons 3690/2003 - c5-0603/2003 - 2001/0060 (cod)) and- a5-0009/2004 by mr sanders-ten holte, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text of the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of air services in the single european airspace (the 'air services regulation') (pe-cons 3691/2003 - c5-0604/2003 - 2001/023 (cod)) (pe-cons 3660/05 (cod)) (pe-cons 623/2003 - 2001/03 (cod)) (the 'interoperability of the european airspace'));
mr president, i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their work on this very detailed and complex report, which, of course, applies to upper air space. further to the last council common position – which my delegation broadly supported – and the subsequent conciliation procedure, we are now able to fully support this regulation. during the process, one of our key objections concerned the inclusion of military operations and training. i am delighted that this sovereign competence is now excluded. had it not been excluded there could have been an adverse impact on nato operations, so i am also delighted that this is no longer the case. however, care needs to be taken during implementation that the newly-created bodies – i.e. the single sky committee and the industry consultation body – do not duplicate their efforts, thereby causing unnecessary confusion. it is quite clear that the aviation industry cannot continue to sustain the loss of usd 4 billion per year due to airspace congestion across europe, and i believe that this regulation will go some way towards addressing this. eurocontrol should also be congratulated for its initiative, put in place in january 2002, which introduced reduced vertical separation. i understand that we have increased capacity by some 30% and reduced delays to the levels we saw in 1998-1999. however, it does behove certain countries and areas, such as france, italy, spain, southern germany and switzerland, which are responsible for 44% of the delays, to make radical improvements nationally if this regulation is going to succeed. another area which needs to be addressed urgently is the shortage of air-traffic controllers across europe. in conclusion, with this regulation we should improve safety, efficiency and the economics of air traffic management, which, as air traffic across europe continues to grow, is good news for the industry, for business and for the consumer.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you once again. as i said a moment ago, there have been difficult and difficult moments, i remember, for example, that at one point there was a collection of signatures from various members of this parliament, precisely in support of the continuation of the galileo programme and calling on the council to take positive decisions once and for all. i would therefore like to stress that if this is one of the great achievements of this legislature, it is because of what it means for the consolidation of the role of the european union at international level, of our autonomy and our own sovereignty, of our future capabilities, without leaving any area of technological development outside our ambitions. i think we have all succeeded, and there have certainly been some frankly difficult moments. i would like to answer very briefly some of the questions that have been raised. the china issue and human rights. ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about the human rights situation in china, and not only in china, but in some other countries closer to china, unfortunately, there are also problems. the european union cannot and must not fail to stress the importance of human rights. there is an agreement on participation in the project, with some limits, with some elements, but i think that the aspects which the honourable members have mentioned must certainly be considered for the future and i think they are very important. next question: galileo as a private system? no, ladies and gentlemen, it is a public system, owned by the european union. the only thing that is there is a concession in terms of its management to a private individual. but let me be very clear: it is public, with public regulation, and, as mr piétrasanta said very well in his report, intellectual property rights and so on will benefit all citizens in the various countries of the european union. why a private consortium and why a payment service? how do you explain that there are going to be some paid services when there are some free services? ladies and gentlemen, as you know very well, there are three levels, one is open, free and free for any citizen, like gps, but unlike gps it is not subject to the waves because it is not a military project, but a civil project. secondly, there is a level of free but paid access, and in this free but paid access you will not only have a better definition and greater accuracy of the received signal, but also a certificate of quality, that is to say, you will know at all times, in fact, whether you are getting the maximum accuracy, or on the contrary, there is some difficulty that reduces it. that's basic to certain kinds of services, like air navigation, for example. with this certification of signal quality, it is possible to land, to change, for example, air navigation systems and even to conceive of landing simply by relying on a system like galileo. at the third level, the last signal, you know, is a security signal, closed to public use, intended for the exclusive use of governments. finally, i would like to thank parliament - and the council, for the way things have developed in the end - and all the commission services, and mr piétrasanta for his work and cooperation, and to wish him luck in his new responsibilities and congratulate him on the good fortune of having the opportunity to say goodbye to his last plenary session with a report as important and as symbolic of the future of europe as the galileo programme. (applause) i would like to thank
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports on the award of public contracts:- a5-0007/2004 by mr zappalà, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, public service and public works contracts (pe-cons 3696/2003 - c5-0607/2003 - 2000/0115 ((cod)) and- a5-0008/2004 by mr zappalà, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, public service and public works contracts (cons 3695/2003 - c5-0607/2003 - 2000/0811 (cod))
commission. mr president, we are today on the verge of adopting the most comprehensive reform of eu public procurement law since the set up of the internal market. it simplifies and modernises our legislation and gives to the public sector and to industry the means to cut costs and enhance competitiveness. the importance of this piece of legislation for reaching the objectives of the lisbon strategy is remarkable. indeed, public procurement is an important part of the internal market, not only because of its volume – for 2002 public procurement amounted to approximately eur 1500 billion: more than 16% of gdp or, in other words, more than half of the german gdp – but also because of the great potential for further savings for european citizens and taxpayers. a recent draft report on the functioning of public procurement markets in the eu shows that the procurement directives have contributed to increased transparency in public procurement markets. the new evidence, based on a sample of firms and public authorities, suggests that increased transparency has effectively resulted in more cross-border competition, price convergence and lower prices for goods and services purchased by public authorities. most importantly, this evidence shows that economic reforms work and pay off. so much so, that the report strongly suggests that further savings are possible in this area. case studies show that savings of the order of 12% could have been made over the period 1998–2002. the potential importance of this is quite remarkable: if savings of 10% could be made, then 5 countries would turn their budget deficits into surpluses and no eurozone member state would run a public sector deficit that would break the stability and growth pact's 3% limit! this is quite remarkable. of course, the report recognises that problems, such as transaction costs, remain. to address such problems, the legislative package in front of you will help with e-procurement, offering new possibilities for cost reductions. if promptly adopted and effectively implemented by member states, these measures will contribute to further improve the performance of our public procurement markets. however important the economic aspects of public procurement may be, they should not be our exclusive focus – other major policies in the social and environmental fields also need to be considered. in this context i would like to compliment the conciliation committee – and mrs cederschiöld – for their excellent work in reaching a well-balanced compromise which fully consolidates and safeguards the advances made by the current jurisprudence as regards the possibilities of using environmental and social award criteria. furthermore, as mrs cederschiöld said, i would like to emphasise the convergence between this solution and the latest court of justice ruling of 4 december 2003 – two days after the conciliation committee meeting – which confirmed the four conditions agreed upon in conciliation that are to be fulfilled by award criteria in order to be valid. provided these conditions are met, production methods could be used as award criteria without being mentioned explicitly. award criteria such as those dealt with in the recent judgment of 4 december will continue to be possible and will, furthermore, be based on clearer legal texts. this confirms one of the merits of this legislative package, namely that the general clarification and simplification of the legislation will lead to more legal certainty. finally i would like to address the situation of certain professions with key roles to play in ensuring high quality when procuring. in this respect, the legislative package will – thanks to the extensive work of the rapporteur – recognise this role and take the particular, qualitative aspects of such services into better account. for all these reasons, i appeal to the members of this house to support the results of this conciliation process and finally to adopt this important piece of legislation. once again, i should like to thank all members who have contributed to the excellent outcome of the various debates held on this important matter.
mr president, i was wondering exactly what mrs thors meant when she said that the proposal was being ‘steered into a safe harbour’, especially as she was looking directly at me at the time. mr zappalà has been the main driver on this issue, but it has been a pleasure to work with many colleagues. i also want to pay tribute to mrs cederschiöld for her wise leadership that has enabled us to arrive at a very satisfactory outcome to this conciliation. i would now like to move forward. the commissioner gave a very powerful presentation about how important these reform directives are to the completion of the internal market. they now have to work in practice. one of the areas we worked on in this conciliation was that of measures that will encourage member states to get these directives to work properly. i make no apologies for repeating what i said in my speech at first reading: we know that there are far too many contracts in all areas of public procurement that are not being properly put onto the official journal system. essentially, governments are allowing their public authorities to evade the provisions of the public procurement system. we know from good practice in a number of member states, of which sweden is probably regarded as the best example, that where governments take this seriously, the provisions start to work effectively. examples include setting up independent bodies to advise all the public agencies in the country concerned on how to work with the public procurement directives. we need to make sure that this is happening. i would like to pick up on the point made by mrs schörling on behalf of her colleagues in the verts/ale group, and by others, that the contractual terms clearly have to include factors other than economic criteria – as we have seen from the famous helsinki bus case. in terms of social and economic criteria this must be done in an open and non-discriminatory way as part of the published tender. that was the point we secured in conciliation and i think we arrived at a sensible agreement. this will be part of the new reform procedures that have to go out there and have to work for the sake of delivering and eventually completing the internal market.
mr president, i should like to thank all those involved in the conciliation. as mr zappalà pointed out, we were not always in agreement, but we did eventually reach a decision. these two directives are a step forward – not a huge step, as mrs schörling said, but at least some progress has been made. comparing what was there originally with what we have today shows considerable progress. but why is this? we have talked tonight about the huge market involved in the whole area of public procurement. the commissioner himself mentioned the huge figures involved. but too often when we talk about that market and about public procurement we talk purely about an economic market. these two directives change all that: social and environmental criteria have now been introduced. this means that the tendering authority does not have to accept the lowest tender. tendering authorities can also take into account recent case-law and i am glad that the commissioner highlighted the 4 december judgment. we also have the july court decision on the altmark bus case and, as mrs thors pointed out, the helsinki bus case. this parliament has added a social dimension to economic legislation. we must never forget that while we strive for a competitive economy by 2010, this has to be accompanied by social progress. that is why i will support tomorrow's vote: even though i voted against this conciliation i will actually now vote in favour.
commission. mr president, no questions have been addressed to the commission and therefore i can afford to be very brief. i know parliamentary is dear, and therefore i shall use few words. i should like to say a few things in response to mrs schörling on the issue of production methods. i should like to reassure her about the findings of the european court of justice. in its ruling of 4 december 2003, the court confirmed and repeated its finding in the famous helsinki bus case, namely that a requirement, according to which the energy to be supplied must be produced from renewable sources, is, per se, admissible. the court added that such an award criterion may be given a high importance, and in this case the relative weight was 45%. to conclude, and to reassure mrs schörling, the judgment confirms that, both under current law and under the joint text, production methods are legitimate award criteria and may be given quite a high weight provided always that the criterion is formulated and applied in such a way as to meet the four requirements set out explicitly in both the helsinki case and in recital 1 of the joint text. i should once again like to express the thanks of the commission that, as one member said, work on this important file has been concluded within this legislature. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr zappalà, the shadow-rapporteur, mrs cederschiöld, and all who have contributed. i will end by thanking mr miller for agreeing, in the end, to support the proposal, even though he voted against it in the conciliation committee.
- we also finished the negotiation within the time limit, which is good news for everyone. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 7.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, it has been a long hard road on this directive. we have to thank the rapporteur for all her hard work, we have to congratulate the parliament for the way in which we took this all the way to conciliation and got a good result, and we now have a very ambitious package in front of us, a packaging package, which, i am afraid, is going to take some member states a lot of time to digest. we have set some very tough targets. we have recognised that this directive will enter into force in a period when we are enlarging the union and a whole series of standards and objectives that we previously had in the group of 15 will now have to be extended to 25 member states. recognising that we even have weak member states amongst the current 15, we have sensibly given derogations. i cannot stand here tonight and say my own country is a shining example of progress as regards the recycling of packaging. i am afraid we have always been slow, we have always been behind the average and we are going to have to do an awful lot of very hard work in terms of building infrastructure and putting a whole range of measures in place to ensure that we achieve the objectives that we have set down in this legislation. along with everyone else, we must do it: if we have signed up to legislation, we must accept the responsibilities of fulfilling the obligations it gives us, and that is something which i think the uk will do and all the member states must do. we have to recognise that high environmental standards must be paid for, but high environmental standards will also give us benefits. we will also, in the longer term, create a cleaner and greener environment for ourselves and for our children. i commend this package to the house.
mr president, i was asked earlier on today by one of my colleagues for a rebuttal of the allegations of fraud in the european union, and so i started off with a great surge of energy, mentioning that 80% of the eu’s budget is spent within the member states, and most fraud occurs within the structural funds and agriculture. so i started off well, but then i suddenly had to slow up because i thought about the kinds of cases that have been in the papers recently – the eurostat case obviously springs to mind. the problem there is that there was a scandal going on and it is difficult to rebut it. the commission sat on the report, the general audit service did not open the box and look at the report and we have to ask why mr solbes did not keep a closer eye on his department. i can rebut it by saying that the procedures for stopping this kind of thing were already in place, but the departments were overworked and there was no time for the system to work through. it was during the early days of the reform process. it is important, however, that we do not continue to allow the directors-general to take all the responsibility. we have to see political responsibility by individual commissions. they have to shoulder this. it may be worth people taking note of the outcome of the hutton report today: we have seen the bbc found guilty of incompetence. it is interesting that it is not the director-general of the bbc who has gone, but the chairman of the bbc. it is the political head – not the administrative head. we should bear that in mind and think about what that means in this context. the accounting system has also, of course, come in for criticism and i could explain at this point that there are only two countries in the whole of the european union that have implemented the kind of accrual accounting system that we want to see. this parliament and the court of auditors, however, asked the commission to get on with it. of course, we must also look internally at the kinds of problems we have here in parliament. we are just about to enter an electoral campaign and many of us are enthusiastic about the whole european union ideal, but we have to sell it in the face of a really difficult press, so you must help us to do more to counteract these allegations of fraud.
mr president, these are indeed challenging times for the european union’s textile and clothing industry. in that context, i am delighted to welcome the commission’s communication on this matter. the region i represent, the east midlands, has the largest cluster of clothing companies in the united kingdom and has the second largest clothing and textile industry in europe. many of my constituents working in this industry have been made redundant time after time and they see manufacturing moving to the low-wage economies of developing countries. it is understandable that to these workers, who are still in such vulnerable positions, protectionist measures seem an attractive proposition. however, in the long term this is not the way to deal with the problems facing the industry today. in today’s global economy the eu is never going to be able to compete on price alone and nor should it. the eu should maximise the advantages of well-trained workers who are motivated, skilled and experienced. we have succeeded in this industry in the past and we can continue to do so in the future. there are different, innovative ways to face the challenges of increasing global competition. for some businesses eu funding has proved to be an important tool in boosting competitiveness. the east midlands textile association runs numerous projects – funded through the european regional development fund – which assist companies: projects such as mas, which helps small businesses in the region to branch out into new markets, or the business ict bureau, which provides an expert source of ict help specific to the needs of the textile sector. these are good examples of how funding is being used to help establish networks between local organisations working in the same area. while funding programmes are beneficial, they are also short-term in nature. i know that work is being done to ensure that maximum long-term economic benefit will be gained by harnessing the east midlands textile cluster. for other businesses the answer may be to look towards technical textiles, ranging from specialist heat- and chemical-resistant materials to flight socks designed to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis. i should like to raise a note of caution here. for some companies the correct response to the challenges is to look to the high-tech field, but it is not an option available to everyone. it would be easy to say that companies are resistant to change. if you look at small organisations with just a few employees and tight profit margins it is much more difficult for those companies to make the significant investment in research that will come more easily to the bigger players. my final point is that the head office of the trade union, kfat, is in leicester, my home town. that union has informed the debate about the future of the textile industry. i, like the industry, the trade unions and those who work in it, look forward to the implementation of the commission’s proposals.
mr president, it is quite opportune that i am the last speaker, as i want to add a note of optimism to the debate, which until now has been rather gloomy. i appreciate that these are challenging times for the textile industry. i appreciate too that we are running into a new era where import controls will be different and a new sector will be joining our textile industry. but, to inject a note of optimism, just as i said in the debate in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, one has only to look at the jackets and suits we are all wearing and ask where they were made. i will tell you where they were made: in europe. this jacket that i am wearing was made by crombie, a local textile firm in my town in england; it is a good, english suit. i do not know where the cloth came from, but it was the skills of british workers and those of the textile industry in europe that took a low-quality commodity product and transformed it into a high-quality, high-value product – that is the future for the textile industry. different parts of the textile industry will find different routes, some more technical than others, some craft-related; some will go in other directions. that is the future for our industry. this should be the message going out to the industry from the commission white paper. we must be sure that when the commission acts, our textile and clothing sector – much of it being made up of small companies – is able to invest in new technology and production techniques. it must be able to find ways to add value to the basic products that we may be importing from elsewhere. we must also – and this is a point which has not been previously mentioned – protect our industry from counterfeiting. this has become increasingly vital. counterfeiting is a very serious issue for high-value, quality products, and is an issue we must address. i see no reference to this at all in the white paper. finally, if we get it right for the textile industry, we can learn some very important lessons for other industrial sectors. we should also be looking at leather goods and footwear, and using textiles as an industrial sector flagship that can lead the way in this new century, with european workers able to earn a living from producing high-value, quality products.
mr president, first of all let me congratulate my good friend mr laschet on his brave attempt to reform the structures of the un, which were shown to be sadly lacking during the recent gulf war. the report also looks at the role that the eu should play within the un. clearly, the un was designed for the cold war period in which permanent membership status and veto rights were necessary for the nuclear powers to ensure global security. not enough has changed yet in the world to justify changing that. the responsibility of security often conflicts with the additional mandate of the un to protect human rights, as many of the un member states are undemocratic dictatorships – resulting in the perverse decision to appoint libya as chair of its human rights committee. furthermore, in the past, the un was powerless to stop the brutal invasions of hungary, czechoslovakia and afghanistan as a result of the soviet veto. china is still not a democracy or a respecter of human rights, making security the main responsibility of the un and it has a vital role to play in the world. i believe there is a case to be made for india and japan to be given permanent membership status as a result of their size and democratic status. similarly, nigeria or brazil could be candidates. unfortunately, this report conflicts with a number of stated positions of my party, the british conservatives, as it attempts to dilute uk veto powers with a double veto and suggests an eu seat on the security council, which would undermine british and french membership. we are also opposed to an eu foreign minister and to a legal personality for the eu, and therefore, no matter how well intentioned the report is, i cannot support it as it stands. with my party, however, i will of course be monitoring closely any attempt to reform the un. we welcome very warmly today the presence in the chamber of secretary-general kofi annan.
mr president, let me begin with three personal recollections. i was privileged to address the un working group in geneva on indigenous peoples and thus witnessed how it forms a world parliament for some of the most oppressed minorities anywhere in our world. i was privileged also to represent parliament in east timor, where i witnessed at first hand sergio vieira de mello’s successful efforts in rebuilding a whole country – a talent so tragically lost to us. this is why i attend meetings of united nations associations in my east of england constituency, where the role and ideals of the un are cherished at a very local level. the united nations inspires me and all of us here in europe. it is why europe rightly champions un policies: the 0.7% target in the millennium goals within eu development policy, and europe providing over half of all support to the un high commission for refugees, which stands up for fundamental rights as a bulwark against the racism and xenophobia now sweeping our continent. this is why we back un reform that will secure greater efficiency and also inject new vision. other policies championed by the eu are the un convention on disability, the move beyond the global compact towards a binding treaty on corporate accountability and the idea of an economic security council to oversee the bretton woods institutions. finally, i am concerned that some of the proposals for changes in the veto system, the composition of the security council, or suggestions for an eu mandate prejudge the outcome of the intergovernmental conference and may not carry support in all of our countries. despite these concerns, where we have differences in europe, most notably recently over iraq, these concern how best to uphold the authority of the un. that authority is once again reaffirmed in mr laschet’s report and in our vote here this morning.
mr president, i welcome mr laschet’s report, comprehensive and ambitious though it is. it comes at a sensitive time for both the european union and the united nations. i want to refer in particular to the un development programme. the report made in 2002 on the subject of arab human development was described by time magazine as the most important publication of the year, and more than a million people downloaded it from the undp website. it had particular relevance for the eu since it was the impetus for the recent commission communication – for which i am currently rapporteur – on reinvigorating human rights and democratisation with mediterranean partners. last year’s undp arab human development report stated that – subject to fieldwork surveys – the appetite for democracy in the arab world was, at 60%, the highest of any region in the world. compare that, for example, with eastern europe, where the figure was 30%. the arab world also logged the highest rejection of authoritarian rule – the figure in this regard was 80% – and was indeed the third highest in favour of gender equality in higher education. so the perception that many have that the arab world is not ready for democracy is undermined by the united nations’ own reports. i hope, therefore, that the council and commission can, as it were, put our money where our mouth is, and redirect some of the enormous funds available for good governance, the development of civil society, democracy and the rule of law, which, in the external field – the responsibility of commissioners patten and nielson – amounts to eur 1.9 billion a year. by contrast, the european initiative for democracy and human rights – a rather smaller fund aimed at the ex-soviet bloc – which i had the honour to set up a few years ago, amounts to only eur 106 million. that is an indication of the distortion in spending which we need to address, and in particular the priorities with which i hope the european parliament will play some part in helping the commission in the coming years.
mr president, i know that many members have very important commitments back in their constituencies and regions, and maybe even more important appointments back at the airport. however, we have been waiting for a number of reports, especially the zappalà report, to come to the floor of this house for a reasonable period of time now. we all have our voting lists in front of us, we were sent here to vote on these issues, so can we now get on with it? it seems that we are putting things off for no reason whatsoever. (applause)
the european parliament has already expressed its support for the united nations, and i am sure that the european parliament will support the united nations in its efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict in the middle east. but we do not agree with the decision on the eu seat and the changes to the veto system. we believe that they would anticipate the outcome of the intergovernmental conference and could be reflected in fewer rather than more references to the un itself. we all want a strong un.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on european space policy as all amendments concerning the need to guarantee the peaceful use of outer-space were not carried. this illustrates the real intentions lying behind the desire for an eu space policy - it is driven by the desire to establish the eu as a military superpower. the inclusion of china in eu space policy, and galileo in particular, is not acceptable until china becomes a fully democratic state and recognises basic human rights. galileo was sold to the european parliament as a civil project, and that is what it should remain. this is one of the main arguments in favour of a european satellite system given that the american gps system is a military project which the us government can jam at any moment. with the inclusion of the fifth application - the public regulated service or prs - it is impossible to guarantee that this encrypted signal, which is reserved for the state, will not be used for military purposes. given its future military application and china's inclusion in the project i voted against the report.
secretary-general, liberal democrats and reformers in this house echo your words on immigration. we recognise the value that immigrants bring to europe and we understand that closing europe's front door will only drive the desperate to seek access through the back. many of us were migrants once upon a time and we know how ill it behoves our generation to shut the gates of mercy on mankind. a europe of security and justice for all is a europe that extends those rights to those who justly seek a new life here. like you, we recognise the political challenge that implies. your words today remind us of the power of the united nations to transcend the parochial in us all. the united nations has a precious power to speak for us all. that is why my group wishes to see the return of the united nations to iraq as soon as the security situation allows. credible and legitimate democratic government in iraq is not possible without the presence of the united nations. (applause) we want a political settlement in iraq that guarantees the highest standards of civil and political rights for all iraqis. the united nations was founded by the same generation who founded this european union – ‘to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind’. like this union it believes that the closer we sit at the table of peace and prosperity, the slower we will be to reach for the tools of war. it is a sorry testament to a stubborn world that the un still seems such an unlikely experiment in international governance. winston churchill once said that the un is designed not to take us to heaven, but to save us from hell. in order to do that better the un must reform. as its largest contributors, the eu and its member states have not only the weight to insist on reform but the responsibility to do so. a mature europe would find the political will to put behind it an institutional settlement at the un that leaves power where it lay in 1945. a mature europe would insist on a permanent membership that reflected the realities of the 21st century. it would accept that the current veto is a tool of obstruction, a privilege that can no longer be justified. finally, secretary-general, on behalf of the liberal group allow me to pay tribute to the members of your organisation who will not see you take this prize in their name today. your staff who lost their lives with sergio vieira de mello – including fiona watson who was known to me – died defending a vision of national renewal in iraq that is now our duty. (applause)
mr president, it has recently been brought to my attention that the maltese labour party has submitted up to 1 600 petitions to the constitutional court in malta, the effect of which is to disbar maltese citizens temporarily abroad for work or study from voting in the coming european elections. should this be the case, this seems to be against the letter and the spirit of both eu law and convention, in that many of these nationals are outside of their home territory for perfectly legitimate reasons. if this is true, this seems to be behaviour that is not consistent with the democratic process which this house would accept as the norm for a country which is shortly to become a member state of the european union. i ask you therefore to investigate whether an attempt is being made to gerrymander the electoral process in malta and to report back to this house with your findings.
mr president, i would like to protest at the leniency shown by president musharraf of pakistan to the television confession of dr abdul qadeer khan. this house has criticised pakistan's exports of nuclear technology in the past and received condemnation from its government for doing so. it is extraordinary that the sale of such dangerous wmd know-how to regimes as brutal as north korea results in a presidential pardon and the right to keep the illegally acquired payments. it smacks of a public scapegoating exercise in the face of embarrassing evidence of official covert support by the government. secondly, i would like to send my condolences to the people of moscow for the recent atrocious suicide bomb attack on their metro, which resulted in at least 39 deaths and 150 casualties, with everything pointing to chechen terrorists organised by a saudi al-qa'ida follower. i ask those in this house who proclaim the glory of the chechen freedom fighters how they account for the murder of innocent muscovites?
mr president, last week the commission ruled against the level of assistance being given by the charleroi airport authorities to a certain airline. not only do i sympathise with the public authorities responsible for charleroi, i admire them for trying to take action to stimulate much-needed economic growth and jobs, in the light of declining traditional industries. the benefits of low-cost air travel have been felt over a much wider area than just around charleroi. for example, the route from glasgow-prestwick to charleroi is the only air link from the west of scotland, a very populous area, to the capital of europe area. while i recognise that the commission sees fit to implement state aid regulations in certain ways, what about the consumers? i hope that the commission will not be over-enthusiastic and end up disadvantaging consumers, including many groups who wish – and need – to visit our headquarters and the other european institutions to learn more about how europe actually works.
mr president, a few days ago, 19 chinese people lost their lives in morecambe bay in the north-west of england. they were cockle picking on the sands, the tide came in and they were all drowned. would you agree with me that this tragedy, whilst clearly on british soil – or in british waters – is equally a european or international issue, and that we must work together to counter the international people-smuggling gangs that were exploiting these poor people who were being paid as little as one pound per day for their work? furthermore, this case once again highlights the clear need to establish an effective and efficient common european system for asylum and the same for immigration, including legal migration, as a matter of urgency. it is clear that what is a united kingdom tragedy one day could easily occur in another country's territory on another day. (applause)
mr president, i rise in response to the outrageous comments just made by mr gollnisch, who implied that david kelly, and i quote: 'died in suspect circumstances', and that tony blair lied. the recent judicial inquiry has looked at all the facts surrounding these tragic circumstances and concluded quite clearly that there were no suspect circumstances surrounding the death of mr kelly, as he implied, and that mr blair did not lie to the house of commons on this matter. whatever one's view of the iraqi conflict – and there are different views in this house, in my country, and indeed in my party, and i have my own view on this – it is essential that we debate this matter based on the facts, not on fiction. (interjection from mr gollnisch: 'no weapons of mass destruction is a fact!')
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the complete disarray regarding free movement of citizens from the new member states. it now seems – but it is by no means certain – that, with a mere 11 weeks to go until 1 may, 13 member states will take advantage of the facility to put obstacles in the way of free movement. this has led to a spotlight on the two remaining states – ireland and the united kingdom – and to hysterical press reactions about being swamped by benefit tourists. i hold no brief for the way the british press is reacting, nor for the rather uncertain reaction of the united kingdom government, but i believe that the original decision to allow full free movement was and is economically, politically and morally right. commission forecasts show that maybe every year there would have been one mobile worker from the east for every 1000 inhabitants in the west, if it had been shared among all states. there may have been some justification for special measures in border areas, but the way this panic has spread and infected most member states is shameful. it treats the new member state citizens as second class, contrary to all the promises they were given, and it displays – as on so many other issues such as iraq, the constitution and the budget – a depressing lack of eu solidarity. could you at least raise this with the commission and member states in the council to try and make the transitional periods as brief as possible?
mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this issue. it is topical and mr katiforis has brought great insight into this issue. i am particularly grateful that he has taken on a number of the concerns i expressed in my amendments. i hope that a deal may be reached between the ppe-de group and the rapporteur. that has not proved possible – so far – but i am sure there is a great deal in his report that we very much support. in a slightly shock reversal of the normal roles within the ppe-de group, i found that the rest of my group were more cautious about the idea of further regulation than i was: usually i am the one in my group arguing for a more deregulatory approach. what is very important – and it was stated clearly by mr radwan, the shadow rapporteur – is that yes, this is an important issue; yes, questions need to be answered about how ratings agencies work and yes, questions need to be asked about whether we should have a registration scheme for ratings agencies. the conclusion the group came to was that we should not prejudge the outcome of this process. it is important that members of parliament and committees look carefully at the issues raised by mr katiforis in his report, but we do not want to prejudge the outcome and say at this point that yes, we should have a european registration authority. we in this group are wary of the cost of regulation. we are concerned about what a significant step it would be to bring rating agencies within a regulatory framework or a registration scheme, and we must be cautious in our response to recent financial scandals. there is a tendency among some financial commentators to assume that we must have further regulation following parmalat, and the organisations that are most squarely in the frame for further regulation and registration are rating agencies. we should look objectively and calmly at what happened at parmalat and see what response is necessary so as to avoid any hasty or knee-jerk reactions, because it is difficult to see how changing the scheme or regulation for rating agencies could have prevented the parmalat scandal. there will always be people who are prepared to break the law, as they were at parmalat, and no matter how wide-ranging and effective the scheme of regulation, whether it be for hedge funds or rating agencies or whatever else, we are not going to prevent that kind of criminal conduct. we can try and make it happen less often, but it is impossible to prevent. questions have to be asked about rating agencies and how they function, but it is premature to reach the conclusion that further regulation or a registration scheme are necessarily needed at this stage.
the commission. mr president, i should like to thank mr cercas for his very good report on the review of a directive which is one of the cornerstones of community labour law. as has been said, the main objective of this directive, which is both its political framework and its legal basis, is to protect workers from the harmful effects on their health and safety caused by excessive working hours, insufficient rest or irregular working hours. the directive is in fact a framework of minimum health and safety requirements for daily and weekly rest, maximum weekly working time, annual paid leave and the duration of night work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies. companies with workers without these minimum acceptable thresholds are clearly unable to have the required productivity. the commission, as it was obliged to do by the expiry of the 10-year period from the adoption of the directive, presented its report on 30 december and announced the review of the working time directive. the commission, in view of the way in which this directive has been implemented in the 15 member states, is obliged to evaluate two provisions of this directive. first, the derogations concerning reference periods for the calculation of the maximum weekly working time. mr cercas asked whether we should discuss this matter, which has not caused any particular problems. but we have many sectors which have problems and which would be interested in a different reference time, and this is being put forward as proposals and as a debate by both employers and workers. secondly, the possibility of individual exceptions to the maximum working time, the famous 'opting out'. of course, these two issues cannot be addressed without taking account of recent developments in the case law of the european court of justice, which defines as working time the time during which a doctor is on call at home and, if requested, during this period at home, is called to the health centre. the commission's notice therefore explicitly addresses the outcome of these cases. it is impossible to see the two provisions which need to be reviewed without taking into account the decision of the courts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission has therefore launched a wide consultation procedure. we are also seeking the opinion of the social partners in a specific framework of procedures, as defined by the treaty, and we are already at the first stage of consultation under article 138 of the treaty. i should like to stress here that, under the treaty, the role of the social partners is very different, it is autonomous, and the framework in which the commission starts the debate cannot but be broad and does not end with the first approach in the guidelines set by the commission, because the social partners themselves will have to be consulted in the first and second phases in order to have their positions. i would therefore say, and you will have noticed, that this first communication is a rather general framework. however, there are a number of points on which i think we are quite clear and which i support. the first is that we must carefully analyse and assess the impact and consequences of any change, firstly, on the workers, since there can be no trade-offs in health and safety matters, and secondly, on the operation of the undertakings. the second is that we have to deal with the whole issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the third point is the relationship between working time and equal opportunities. it is an inherent link in the directive and, in effect, helps to encourage member states to take measures to improve the reconciliation of work and family life. the fourth point concerns 'opting out'. there are different kinds of approaches. i would say two extremes, where the first is not to have the possibility of using the option of an exception to the maximum working time, that is to say to go for a total abolition of the 'opting out', and the second is the generalization of the 'opting out', the generalization of this exception which will, in essence, leave to employers and workers the possibility of deciding on working time and the whole working environment. both extremes create significant problems: the first does not take account of the specific features of a large number of sectors, and even more so of the specific features which may arise from decisions such as the court's, with very significant consequences in this case for health systems. if such decisions are made in other sectors in the future, then other sectors will have similar problems. the second extreme, which concerns the acceptance of 'opting out' as a way of operating the labour market, essentially abolishes all the fundamental european union frameworks based on workers' rights which take substantive account of health and safety and which link productivity to the personality of the worker. i would say from the outset that i am opposed to both of these extreme approaches. it is true that the institutional framework for the opt-out directive in question made it possible to abuse it. and that's why there are countries where we have systematic abuse of "opting out" in all industries, in all categories of businesses, with very serious problems for workers. i think we must therefore look at and resolve these outstanding issues, taking into account the need to use 'opting out' but also the existence of new criteria and binding positions towards the member states so that their use is controlled and not abused. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. our aim is that this process will lead to a better legislative framework, which takes account of the real impact on the workplace and best serves the directive's core purpose of protecting workers' health and safety. in this consultation i think parliament has the first say. your report is extremely timely and substantial. i would like to assure you that this is the basis of the preparation and, of course, it is only a first discussion and approach of the commission with parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the commissioner and thanking her for her wise, practical and helpful comments today and also for the report by the commission, which was extremely well balanced. i mean no disrespect to the rapporteur, and i hope he will forgive me for saying that i cannot make the same comments about his own report. as he knows, together with the eldr group, we nearly managed to defeat it in committee, but virtually none of our amendments were accepted. yet they so nearly won through and, had we succeeded, we would not have had to trouble the house on this occasion. needless to say, we are retabling those amendments and we hope that the full house will do justice to them in the vote on wednesday. the sad thing about the report was that essentially it stated in black and white that there should be no opt-out at all under any circumstances and that the uk should be taken to court for alleged abuses, as if to say: my mind is made up, do not confuse me with the facts. i would like to share some facts with the house this evening. opting out from the working time directive is voluntary: nobody can legally be forced to sign an opt-out and it is important to give people the flexibility to work longer hours and earn the overtime if they wish. research in the uk has indicated that 2.5 million people work longer than the maximum hours stated in the directive, but two thirds of them get paid for the extra hours so would lose out if the opt-out were removed. it is true that some workers would like to work fewer hours, but not if the cut in hours means a drop in pay. more than seven out of ten of those working longer hours said they would not want fewer hours if it meant less pay. there is no evidence that health and safety have been compromised in any of these circumstances. i would now just like to talk briefly about the report by barnard, deakin and hobbs, which the rapporteur referred to. he stated that, according to its conclusions, there have been abuses on a massive scale. i have to say that the conclusions say nothing of the kind. it was interesting that, when the commission report itself came out, there was an article in the financial times on tuesday, 6 january, co-authored by catherine barnard and simon deakin, professing surprise at the way their report had been misinterpreted. i would just like to quote three short paragraphs. ' it is true that we did uncover evidence of some abuses of the opt-out system. sometimes, the opt-out was presented as a standard contract term to new staff, which they would have to take positive steps to avoid. but this was unusual. what was striking was that, for every employee who felt under pressure to opt out, we found others who wanted the right to choose what hours they worked and what salary, status and job satisfaction they gained as a result (...). we quickly discovered a gap between the rhetoric around reducing working hours and the reality of working life for many people. in one example given to us, workers in the tobacco industry could lose hundreds of pounds a week in overtime pay if they were limited to working 48 hours.' they state in the final paragraph that 'a complete ban on long hours would be unfeasible in many companies and industries or would be simply disregarded.' those are the facts, not as presented by the rapporteur. therefore the conclusion has to be that the opt-out must stay and abuses, if any, must go. i would hope that members on all sides of the house could support that. finally, i would just mention the simap and jaeger judgments. they are the important issues we should be addressing and our amendments try to focus on those issues, because we have to try to resolve the very clear problems that the court of justice has raised. in conclusion, i know that on the record in september uk labour meps said that they voted unanimously against retaining the opt-out, but it is never too late to repent. i still cherish the hope that on wednesday they will vote with us in the interests both of employment and employees.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work on the organisation of working time. as the commissioner said, this is an issue which touches every worker and family within the european union. however, although i clearly understand that individual commissioners do not always get what they want when they want it, i am very disappointed with the way the issue of working time has been handled by the commission as a whole. it had ten years to prepare and produce proposals on the operation of derogations on the opt-out and annualisation; the review and communication were clearly required by november 2003 and yet, incredibly, the commission still managed to miss the deadline. when the communication came, it was, quite frankly, hardly worth the paper it was printed on. it is a weak document and gives no clear signal on the best direction for action. it should not, in my opinion, be allowed to stand as a proper instrument for the opening of the first phase of consultation between the social partners under the procedure included in article 138. i hope the social partners will make that clear. also, by the time the commission got around to producing the communication, it was being bombarded with notifications from member states that they would begin to use the opt-out in their health-care sectors in response to the simap and jaeger rulings. no doubt some member states were being opportunistic in this respect, but the commission had had three years to react to simap; its inaction could therefore lead to the neutering of a central piece of eu health and safety law. in our view, a blanket spread in the use of the opt-out is not the answer to simap and jaeger. we want speedy and specific action from the commission in response to those judgments and then time to sensibly revise other provisions in the original directive. as to how we solve those difficulties, we could look to social partner agreements or re-rostering arrangements that have been put in place in certain parts of the eu to deal with the implications of those cases. or we could look at the type of definition we adopted to cover the case of relief drivers and overnight ferry tripsin dealing with working time for drivers. as well as working time and rest time the notion of periods of availability was included there. more generally, people like mr bushill-matthews are constantly telling me that the opt-out is essential to give companies the flexibility they need to operate. it is strange then, in my view, that until recently only one member state used this opt-out: the others were managing just fine and would still be managing in their health-care sectors if not for the simap and jaeger judgments. the truth is that the directive is flexible. more relaxed arrangements apply to a whole range of occupations and activities and the reference periods are generous. i for one would also be quite happy to look at whether annualisation of working time could be made a more realistic option in all member states. overall, the socialist group takes the view that an opt-out from a health and safety directive is a dangerous nonsense. the possibility was created for purely political reasons ten years ago and it was a bad idea from the start. a general opt-out is bad for the welfare of workers, bad for a proper work-life balance, damaging to efforts to encourage women to return to the labour market and, as the statistics show, not at all helpful in the drive to boost productivity. it is not the direction a union committed to transforming itself into the most dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world should even think of taking. so i, for one, will not repent and i will certainly not join mr bushill-matthews on wednesday.
mr president, i am pleased that the commission brought forward the consultation document. it would have been useful, however, to have brought it forward before mr cercas drew up the report, but i am very pleased that we were able to table oral amendments. nevertheless this is not the ideal way of working and i would like to register that point. i tabled a number of amendments, a lot of them with the ppe-de group, and some of my own. the main point – and i am very pleased the commissioner touched on this – is that the individual opt-out should be kept, but that it should be truly voluntary and measures should be taken to tackle any abuse. but as mr bushill-matthews said, that abuse is not as widespread in the uk as the rapporteur leads us to believe. indeed, as mr bushill-matthews and the rapporteur have repeatedly said, the authors of the research – barnard, deakin and hobbs – stated that the abuse was widespread. those people have distanced themselves from what you have written in your report and indeed would distance themselves from your statement today. to answer mr hughes' point, one of the reasons for maintaining the opt-out is that in the uk we do not have collective agreements. that is one of the main reasons we use the opt-out. other member states use derogations because they have collective agreements. decisions can be made between both sides of industry: trade unions and employers will get together and decide what they want to do on the working time directive. but because we do not have that – at least not to any great extent – we need the flexibility for our businesses to be able to cope. wages are not a competence of the eu, nor should they be. we should not be discussing pay. but workers in the uk are on low wages, even though we have a national minimum wage. they quite often add to their take-home pay by doing overtime. if we get rid of the opt-out, there will be many cases of workers not being able to do overtime and therefore not getting a reasonable pay level. we are not the only country that uses it either: germany, france, the netherlands, spain and luxembourg are all either using it or going to use it in the health or catering industries. another problem is the length of reference period. tourism and agriculture have a particular problem because of different working patterns and because of the times of year that they work. the commission must also look at the simap and jaeger judgments. it is very important that we do that on health and come forward with proposals. i hope enough meps will join us tomorrow when we vote, in particular those labour meps who voted against us in committee and against the uk labour government.
mr president, i have always considered this directive to be an infringement of workers' rights to work the hours they wish, believing that it is an inalienable right of the individual to chose one's own balance between work and leisure time. the legislation was ill-conceived and did not take into consideration the difficulties experienced by small businessmen and by many professions. it is essential that the opt-out be retained, in particular for certain occupations. in the united kingdom, the national health service could not run without the willingness of dedicated doctors and nursing staff to work long hours. in this regard it is imperative to remove the farcical rule that says that a doctor is working when he is asleep in bed purely because, technically, he is on call – but then, common sense is not a capability that this parliament often utilises. the current opt-out is open to all member states. the fact that france, germany and the netherlands are now following the uk's example in deploying it in relation to the medical professions serves to demonstrate that the line the uk has always taken is the practical one. with enlargement around the corner, some consideration must be given as to how this directive will affect the newcomers' individual labour markets. in my own experience when visiting malta last year, the leading topic for all political parties was the working time directive. the majority of people in malta work in excess of 48 hours per week and need to do so for their own benefit and for the island's economy. all member states need the flexibility to organise their own working time. the eu should recognise this and return this responsibility to national governments.
mr president, i welcome this report and i welcome the commission's public consultation on it. for those who are interested, the details are on the website. if we are honest we all know the problems that long hours of work bring for health and safety, productivity and social relationships, both for the individual and within the family. a number of member states, for example, are very concerned about children being left without appropriate adult care at times while their parents and carers are at work. we know that the 'long hours' culture, for whatever reason, brings strain, stress and potential breakdown. i find myself in the interesting position of agreeing with mr hughes this evening, and certainly with most of what mr pronk said, about the 'on call' issue being resolvable, between social partners, in various sectors and in other ways. the issue about who owns your time, who controls it, who says where you have to be at what point, is a key question when deciding whether or not you are actually at work. as for the dedication of doctors, yes, there is enormous dedication there but i do not feel safe at the hands of a doctor who has been on call for 72 hours and is swaying with tiredness while he is trying to make a decision how to treat me. that is a personal experience. we are told that many people want to work longer hours because they really love their jobs – just as we all do. good. but we also recognise that there is more to life than paid work. we are seeing again in certain countries a decline in voluntary work, for example, with all the repercussions that has for wider society. we are also told that we need additional flexibility so that people can do overtime to earn a living wage. if this has to be done on a regular basis, i contend that there is a problem with the basic wage paid, rather than the right to continue compulsory overtime. we all know about the pressures exerted by teams to make sure you turn up for that overtime, whether you want to or not. a lot of this debate sounds to me at times rather like gender discrimination: people claim it does not exist because they have never experienced it. part of this is the question whether or not people have a real choice, say in the uk with its opt-out, as to whether or not they work longer hours. we know of the enormous pressure exerted on people by employers, by methods of working, by just-in-time production, by a whole set of things such as the macho work culture that says you are not dedicated to your job unless you are in at 8 a.m. in the morning and still there at 10 p.m. at night. i am sure that a number of the staff in this parliament will recognise that feeling. the issue of flexibility is about who makes that decision. i would be happier with a lot of the uk's arguments if i felt there really was a concerted effort by the uk government to apply the rules. but i do not see any evidence of this and it is not what i am hearing at meeting after meeting either.
mr president, a number of references were made to us, the british labour meps. we clearly recognise the importance of this issue for our political group and for working people, particularly the issue of work/life balance and health and safety. that has been established and eloquently spoken about by a number of speakers. we do not want to see a long-hours culture; we want to see higher productivity. we want to see working people have the kind of work that allows them the leisure they deserve. we fully support the repeated statements by our government stating that the opt-out should not be abused and that the exercise of the opt-out must be truly voluntary to be legal under uk law. we need clarification of the simap and jaeger judgments. as british labour meps, we also believe that it is inappropriate for infringement proceedings to be taken against the uk government. we have tabled amendment 1, which deletes the recommendation that the uk government should be subject to infringement proceedings. however, we believe in the principle of working time and want to see progress, particularly in the health sector.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0013/2004) by mr flesch, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2003 (2003/2007 ((ini)).
mr president, i can assure the last speaker that we are neither lifeless nor anaemic in the work that we undertake in the joint parliamentary assembly. the references which the excellent rapporteur makes are to the fact that we now have a parliamentary status and a very different way of working but, most important, the acp representation is of elected members of parliament and not of ambassadors, which used to be the case in the past. i am sure if the previous speaker were to look at the evidence she would see that was the case. it is because we have this parliamentary status under the cotonou partnership agreement that we have a new and dynamic maturity. the parliamentary assembly is a very special institution: it is the democratic arm of acp-eu cooperation and provides a voice for the people in the 93 countries which are represented there. it is our task to build credible and workable partnerships through dialogue and consultation between our respective parliaments. in our last joint assembly we worked on the epa trade negotiations, human rights, governance, the european development fund and environmental concerns. our entire effort is to ensure that we deliver the promise and vision of cotonou. our work should reflect that unique subscription between the eu and 78 acp countries to those values which are enshrined in the agreement. those values are central to our work here in parliament and to our work with developing countries, and that is democracy, the rule of law and, above all, the eradication of poverty. we are conscious of the difference of opportunity that exists between our acp colleagues and ourselves. we have access to staff and technology to assist us with our work, and far greater opportunities to cooperate and work together, as we are now in our preparations for addis ababa at the end of this week. in addition, we have far more of a tradition of parliamentary scrutiny. i am delighted that commissioner nielson has on a number of occasions expressed his support for the joint assembly and for financial resources to be made available for us to be more effective in our work and for the participation of acp parliaments to be greater, because, after all, it is their legitimacy and accountability as parliamentarians that is at the heart of our work. i am encouraged by the growing confidence of acp parliamentarians, and that has been demonstrated, as mrs flesch says, by the extensive participation now from both sides in the debates we are having. we comment on it because it is growing and developing as confidence increases. in the past it was the european parliamentarians who dominated every debate and that, i am glad to say, is no longer the case. they are absolutely hungry for information in order that they can be more effective in their parliaments. i know that some countries – such as senegal – are making a priority of parliamentary training and capacity-building in their national indicative programmes. but we need to do more to encourage more jpa parliaments to have this facility. we are now preparing for the seventh session of the jpa in addis ababa this weekend and i am sure that we will continue to work in an increasingly impressive and focused way in 2003.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0015/2004) by mr modrow, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the reform of state-owned enterprises in developing countries with a focus on public works: what is needed to assess all options (com (2003) 326 - 2003/2158 (ini)) and on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on european community cooperation with third countries: the commission's position on future support for the development of the business sector (com (2003) 267 - 2003/2158 (ini)).
the commission. the commission is therefore proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the two communications. it is clear that the commission, in these two communications, is trying to underline the importance of the business sector for development. business development and a vibrant private sector are key drivers of economic growth and a major source of employment in developing countries, especially when the informal sector of the economy is taken into account. we have outlined the commission's experience of supporting the private sector, the benefits of action at community level and the need to harmonise the various instruments. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that there are large losses and inefficiencies in state enterprises, but of course this reform should be part of plans to restore macroeconomic and budgetary balances and to promote growth. we have avoided taking easy or simplistic ideological approaches. we are not putting an end to the debate on the ownership regime, whether it is a matter of state or private enterprises or public-private partnerships. the aim is to present all the arguments and analyse them so that, having objectively considered all the options, we can make the final choice that meets the needs of each country and also of each sector. i would remind you that the commission has always taken a firm stand on these programmes, always taking account of the social implications of economic liberalisation programmes, and it is interesting that over the years the bretton woods institutions have adopted the same position. we recognize the great importance of domestic investors, but also the investments that european smes, especially those with experience and knowledge, can make. we stress the need to develop appropriate regulatory frameworks, supervisory mechanisms, vital issues where the commission wishes to make its experience and high level of expertise available to developing countries. as i said, we place great emphasis on the need to attract investment and to create a favourable environment. the strategy aims to develop the financial sector in developing countries, promoting, as an effective means of financing, small businesses and micro-credit institutions, which play a vital role in providing micro-credit to the informal sector of the economy, which includes mainly women-led businesses. the two communications are complementary and have been drawn up with the aim and ultimate objective of further reducing poverty. i hope that the debate in parliament and your decision on this will help us to understand better the need to emphasize business development in these countries and to help the necessary reform of state enterprises.
mr president, i applaud the development of the rapporteur's ideas in recent years on this subject. i enjoyed working with him in the committee on development and cooperation on this report. there is no single holistic approach to the management of public utilities that fits all developing countries. evidence from post-independent developing countries in the past 50 years shows that state-owned enterprises have, in the majority of cases, failed to efficiently and cost-effectively provide water, waste management, municipal services, road transport, aviation services, mining, reforestation and energy supplies, thereby making them a considerable burden on the state budget, hindering economic growth and impoverishing the poorest. poverty, diseases and lost economic opportunities have increased because of the state management of public utilities by bureaucrats whose first priority is job security and not economic efficiency: just look at the failed soviet system. it is imperative to get the private sector involved in the provision of public services in developing countries in order to increase cost efficiency as well as economic growth. the private sector alone can generate sustainable employment and is the driving force of every modern economy. public utilities in developing countries should be privatised through open international procedures that are transparent, quick and not onerous, and able to meet sustainable development and public interest criteria. ideally, the award of a tender should be the sole task of an independent, foreign financial institution, acting alone, according to international norms and reporting conditions, and one that has no conflict of interest in that country or in that project. i have studied this process for many years and have sadly come to a very sad and bitter conclusion: many foreign direct investors are put off by tedious and laborious tender procedures, consultants' reports, evaluation committees and committees to evaluate other evaluations – devices constructed by officials of developing countries and consultants to international bodies to earn money either through fees or corruption. these procedures are an open door to the impoverishment of countries through delay, vacillation and corruption. the more decision-makers there are in the loop, the more corruption there is. such corruption takes various forms. the first form is that of accelerating a decision and overlooking a better bid by making payments to high government officials, such as are to be found in east asian countries. the other form of less detectable corruption to be found in south asian countries and africa is making payments to block the success of another more favourable bid by a competitor. in the former case, despite the corruption and the more inferior services now provided, the job gets done and some form of utility is provided, while in the latter nothing ever gets done and the economy suffers. the former is endemic in the north and east asian countries, while the latter is epidemic in south asia and africa. when large transnational companies are encouraged to invest, through foreign direct investment, in developing countries, they should also be empowered to make offset investments. by offset investments i mean that they should be able to put a part of that investment into social capacity-building, into schools, hospitals, training colleges and youth centres, so that there is a public element in the privatisation of a public utility whereby everybody around the utility benefits. this is the way forward, with transparency and openness.
mr president, i want to refer to the part of the report which concerns the reform of state-owned enterprises. i welcome the commission's communication and i agree with the commissioner that we need reform of state-owned enterprises. when resources are tight, we need to ensure that they are used effectively. i also agree that we have to be sensitive to the needs of the countries involved and not adopt dogmatic solutions. if you look at our own history, public services have played a vital role in our economic development: they helped to end poverty and disease, and, by adopting the principle of universal access to public services, we managed to help eradicate poverty, raise living standards and create more equal societies. when we are looking at public services in the developing world, we must also focus on the eradication of poverty as a top priority of our reform of public services and state enterprises. there is one other key ingredient we should not miss out on and that is the principle of public accountability. that accountability should include scrutiny by elected representatives, independent regulation and the involvement of civil society and ngos. we have some models of good practice in our own countries to show how public services can be held accountable. if we have more accountability built into the way we look at reform in these countries, i am sure we will have the kind of public services which deliver for people, make sure resources are used effectively and help us to pursue our own development goals of eradicating poverty and raising living standards.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 8.50 p.m.)
commission. mr president, avian influenza has affected poultry populations in nine countries in asia so far, namely cambodia, the people's republic of china, including the special administrative region of hong kong, indonesia, japan, laos, pakistan, south korea, thailand and vietnam. according to an fao-who-oie expert panel held on 3 and 4 february in rome, the current epidemic is still evolving and not yet under control. as of today, the disease has taken 18 human lives in vietnam and thailand, but a new virus, fully transmissible to humans and capable of spreading from human to human, has not yet emerged. in total asia has around 40% of the world's poultry population and accounts for 25% of world trade in poultry. there are 6664 million birds in the affected areas. already the situation is affecting the world's grain and meat markets. this is a devastating disease in poultry causing very high mortality – up to 95% in 24 hours. many millions of birds have already died of the disease, or have been destroyed in the fight to halt its spread. in its sanitary and its economic dimension, not forgetting the animal welfare aspects, this outbreak of avian influenza is unprecedented and, although there is at present no indication of a developing human pandemic, this risk cannot be excluded according to the who. the disease impact is likely to be most felt by smallholders and owners of backyard flocks which form their main food supply. it may be more difficult to prevent the disease in these flocks than in larger commercial units. this has the potential to accelerate trends towards the industrialisation of poultry operations in the affected countries and therefore could have some negative social and environmental consequences. clearly, the situation affects the european community at many levels and the commission, as well as the member states, has taken decisive action. the commission has immediately taken safeguard measures to ensure adequate protection against possible disease introduction in the territory of the community via imports of live birds and poultry products from the countries concerned to protect both animal and public health. the commission has made appropriate arrangements to send an animal health and two public health experts to vietnam to assist in combating the disease in collaboration with the who. in addition, member states have also sent experts to various other countries. we have been, and we will continue, monitoring the situation carefully via our delegations, the who, fao, oie, as well as governmental and other non-governmental information sources. the member states have contingency plans in place according to community legislation, approved by the commission to be implemented in case of avian influenza outbreaks in poultry. the commission services are at present scrutinising the plans submitted by acceding countries so that they can become operational on the date of accession. in the public health domain, assessment of risk to humans is carried out on a continuous basis in cooperation with the who and experts from the member states. rapid exchange of information and mutual consultation on guidelines and measures taken or planned by the member states is ensured via the early-warning and response system of the european community. further measures and guidelines and consultation procedures could be taken by the commission should the need arise. moreover, the commission intends to publish a working paper on pandemic influenza preparedness and response planning, which sets out a series of steps to be taken by member states and the european community to address the threat of an avian influenza pandemic. the commission is collaborating closely with the affected countries to identify areas where help is needed and where it can provide the greatest benefit. not only the directorate for health and consumer protection, but also those for development, europeaid and our humanitarian aid office, are actively collaborating with local governments and non-governmental organisations. the ec delegations in the region are actively involved in this process and are coordinating with member state embassies. right now the commission is preparing a major community contribution to support vietnam's efforts against avian influenza by the financing of up to eur 1 million worth of protective and laboratory equipment under two ongoing ec assistance programmes under the auspices of dg europeaid. this will be the largest contribution to date by any donor to vietnam. an agreement is due to be signed with the who, which should be finalised by the middle of this week. as time is an important factor, the commission services at all levels are in continuous dialogue with the world health organisation, the fao and world organisation for animal health, and local authorities to share our experience and expertise in disease control as rapidly and with as little red tape as possible. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our staff for this extra effort. the commission hopes that all these measures and activities will be successful in containing and ultimately eradicating the disease and that we can restore normal practices in our trade and other dealings with the countries affected sooner rather than later. the commission will continue to follow the issue closely and support affected countries in collaboration and coordination with the relevant international organisations and the member states, and it will adjust community measures in proportion to the risks posed by the disease situation.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his remarks and i think we can all join him in hoping that what he has outlined will be successful. i would like to make three points. first, in relation to the european union's own services, one imagines that those operating on our behalf in south-east asia are mainly from the food and veterinary office in dublin: our team of european union health and food inspectors. could the commissioner tell the house how many people are involved in this work? he briefly mentioned that. one of the things that worries the meps who have visited the food and veterinary office is that it is very understaffed. in fact, i believe there are only 90 inspectors for the entire world. what worries me is that, if this pandemic in asia is tying up a lot of the efforts of such inspectors, where is the work not being done? one of the things we were talking about in the committee recently was the importation of chicken meat from brazil because of the danger that this was impregnated with nitrofurans. now if we are looking at south-east asia, can the commissioner reassure me that somebody is still looking at what is happening in brazil? my second point is about the human health dimension, because although this obviously has an animal health issue at its starting point, the human health dimension is very important. is mr byrne satisfied that the european union already has the capacity to monitor effectively any signs that an animal epidemic, or a major human pandemic, has started to occur here, given the likelihood of concealment? we have come across the element of concealment already in the countries where this has arisen. there is a temptation, i am sure, for concealment to happen elsewhere in the world also. will he give some thought to setting up a rapid response team dedicated to planning for the worst in the european union? he has outlined something of this, but not perhaps talked about that precise team. the next report we are debating is very relevant – mr bowis' report on the european centre for disease prevention and control. unfortunately, that centre has not yet been set up. would it be possible for an advance guard of the new centre for disease prevention and control to set up a planning team with which the european parliament can have a dialogue? thirdly, mr byrne is also responsible for food safety at home and for legislation regarding food labelling. given that we do not know exactly what the route of transmission is – if there is a route to humans – and that consumers are wary of food of unknown origin at such a time, would the commission consider providing consumers with extra information via the labelling of the country of origin of the poultry meat component of composite foods which account for a very large section of the european union market? i note that mr byrne said that the commission had banned the import of poultry meat and poultry products. oh really? many consumers will tell you that it is impossible to tell where the poultry meat comes from in the composite foods we buy throughout the european union. this is some of the information which i believe in this context should be given to the consumer.
mr president, commissioner byrne, i welcome your statement here this morning, but i understand that you went to thailand and were told that it was not avian flu but chicken cholera. it was only when you returned that you later found that it was actually avian flu. i welcome the ban you have imposed on thai chicken meat but you have not banned cooked meat or canned meat, and this accounts for about 75% of our imports from thailand. the thai authorities have been found wanting in international compliance. they have hidden the thai flu for maybe two months. if they protect their market from a deadly disease, surely they will protect it against minor infringements of eu standards. will they run the same risk with cooked meats? will we see nitrofuran residues and hormones entering the eu in this cooked meat? is the public health of the eu overridden by the trade interests of eu exporters? i believe thailand should be completely delisted from all poultry meat exports until that country can prove it has the infrastructure and the integrity to apply eu standards all the time. can we also have a labelling of country of origin for principal ingredients in processed food, because this is where most of this thai cooked meat comes in? how can we be sure that meat cooked in thailand has reached the correct temperature? there is perhaps a slight risk – how do we know? cooked chicken may come into the uk frozen, then thaw and be eaten with no further treatment from the time the thais cooked it. is this a risk to our consumers? the tariff for thai cooked chicken meat is one seventh of that on frozen fresh chicken. why is this so, commissioner? this seems to be a loophole. finally, has the disease moved to the united states of america?
mr president, northern ireland has a very vibrant poultry industry, which is expressing grave concern. while what has happened in asia is unfortunate, we have to protect the european market, because it is an extremely large market for the poultry industry. i am concerned about the length of time it took the authorities in asia to notify us of the outbreak. this is a very worrying aspect. i have to ask the commissioner to give serious consideration to the depth of our scrutiny of the chicken asia is producing and exporting to europe. there is cause for grave concern. our producers produce chicken and broiler chicken meat of an extremely high standard for the consumers in europe. but the standard of chicken, not only from the far east but also from other parts of the world, is seriously questionable. we can sit back on our laurels and wait and see. before this ban is lifted again, commissioner, i would like your assurance that you will do everything to ensure that our veterinary inspection in the far east where the outbreaks took place is of the highest quality, and we accept no excuses. i would also raise the point of the import of chicken feathers. this might not look like a problem, but i am told that it is the most serious way of exporting asian bird flu to europe. you have to take that on board too when you deal with the chicken meat.
mr president, i welcome our commissioner, mr byrne. i am deeply concerned about some of the issues that have been raised in this meeting today. is this a matter of public health or public safety, or is it just a trade issue? i strongly believe that this is a matter of public health. i should like to ask the commissioner how long it took him to decide to ban chicken from coming into the european union? is chicken that is still in transit coming into the european union, or has that also been stopped? we heard from mr parish that there is a problem of cooked and chilled meats coming in. why has it not been decided to ban all meats coming in? it is said that the flu virus is killed at 70 degrees – given an absolutely perfect situation – but we do not know how these products are cooked. can you, commissioner, guarantee the safety of children in my constituency? for example, schools in bedford are using thai chicken to prepare meals for the pupils. can we totally guarantee their safety? i have three direct questions for you, commissioner. what are you doing to ensure the safety of meat coming into this country? how many qualified inspectors do we have today on our borders, checking the safety and quality of products coming into the european union? you were asked what you were going to do about labelling. can we guarantee the consumer that labelling will show the country of origin of production? it is particularly important that you look at this, commissioner. this is not just about trade, it is about health. mr nicholson mentioned feathers. have you stopped the import of feathers as of today?
mr president, the european union must raise concerns about the unhealthy practices that have developed alongside the industrialisation and mass transportation of livestock in parts of asia. animal disease now travels far and fast in types of farming and food distribution. that makes it very difficult to control. in the age of global trade, retailers and manufacturers source their raw materials where they are cheapest, and the european poultry industry has struggled to compete with prices from south-east asia and brazil, where labour costs are very much lower. the uk alone imported 36 649 tonnes of poultry meat from thailand in the first ten months of last year, a 50% increase on the previous year. but in the light of this flu virus we must maintain the strictest food safety standards here in the european union, ensuring that all imports meet those very same high standards. modern food systems mean that animal diseases travel far and travel quickly. the outbreak of avian flu in the netherlands last year illustrated how hard the disease can be to contain. does the commission believe that all health authorities in the european union would spot avian flu and be able to react decisively enough if it arrived on this continent?
commission. i am pleased to be here to discuss the commission’s proposal for a regulation to establish a european centre for disease prevention and control, submitted to the council and the european parliament in august 2003. allow me first to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr bowis, and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their hard work and support on this important and urgent proposal. the sars emergency in the early spring of 2003 served as a sharp reminder of the need to accelerate the further development of our capacity to deal with health threats. the current epidemic of avian influenza in asia – that we have just discussed – with its potential risk to public health, reinforces the need for prompt and effective action. the existing community network for surveillance and control of communicable diseases is a solid basis on which we can build – to enhance cooperation between the member states, the commission and international organisations, in particular the world health organisation. we need to have the means at our disposal to respond to emerging health threats based on the best scientific advice, in the shortest possible time. establishment of the centre marks the shift from ad hoc cooperation to structured coordination through a focal point, giving clear scientific leadership. in some recent cases, in response to who requests for help, we have seen teams from different member states investigating the same phenomena with slightly different methodologies, sending samples to different laboratories, with each of them reporting separately. this divergence would end with the creation of a scientifically reputable centre with the authority to act at community level on matters such as surveillance, networking of expert laboratories or mobilising outbreak investigation teams. the commission’s text takes into account budgetary rigour and respects the member states’ responsibilities on public health. at first, the centre's core task will be to deal with communicable diseases from whatever source – deliberate or adventitious. the question of extending its mandate subsequently should be addressed on the basis of experience. i very much hope that we can reach a speedy agreement between the institutions – during first reading – to enable the centre to become operational as soon as possible.
rapporteur. – mr president, when i present reports to this parliament i like to add by way of a signature a quotation and in this case i have used the arabian proverb: 'he who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything'. the statement and the debate we have just been listening to show the hopes and the fears of our constituents and their concern that we do better in this area in the future. in the case of avian flu, with the transmission from hens to ducks to pigs to humans – resulting in the deaths of 19 humans – mutation is a possibility. when we look back at the sars experience and when we look around at the constant threat of bioterrorism, we see the need for this centre to coordinate better, as the commissioner has said, and we see the need for urgency in bringing this measure forward. we are dealing with health emergencies that are within the competence of the european union. we are also dealing with other health areas and starting, as the commissioner has said, with communicable diseases, not least those with drug-resistant strains, which threaten our communities. this report provides for a later review in three years' time, which will look at the scope of the measure and the experience gained and see how best we can move forward in terms of other health monitoring. the centre does not resemble the american central direction center, but is rather a network of networks. it is neither bureaucratic, nor is it costly. in due course, we may need to look at its costs to see if we are adequately funding it, but for now it is certainly not costly. it will work closely with national networks and no national network need feel threatened by this because they will fully be a part of it. it will also work with international agencies, particularly the who, which is so fundamental in these areas. in our discussions we have had two key issues before us. one was the scope, where we found a happy and acceptable solution, and the other was the board, where there was some controversy. i am one of those who has always argued for small boards for these authorities and agencies, as i did for the food safety authority, but in this case there is a fundamental reason why we need to have every member state represented on the board and that is because every member state may be asked to contribute to the work of the centre. that is sensible. i am grateful also that we have been able to ensure that we have parliamentary representation on the board. it is urgent that this set-up should be in place by 2005 and for that reason we have to do this in a single reading, given the complexities of the parliamentary year ahead. it has been a complex process of consultation with colleagues and with the council that has led to a complex set of mainly technical and linguistic amendments. we now have two blocks of amendments; the first are those that i commend to this house, and the second those that are superseded by the first. there are then two further amendments tabled by the eldr group and i have to say to the house that, whatever one thinks of those amendments, were they to be accepted it would jeopardise the possibility of having this measure brought forward by 2005. i therefore have to ask the house to reject those two amendments. this report has only been possible because of the collaboration with my colleagues in my group and across the groups, and i am deeply grateful to them, to the shadow rapporteurs, to the group, the committee and the parliamentary secretariats. our discussions and debates have also played a role, including those with the commission and the council, which have often been forceful, yet always positive. i am grateful both to the former italian presidency and the current irish presidency for the work we have been able to do together. this proposal will enhance our community and national ability to look after public health throughout the european union. it will enable us to work with other countries beyond the european union to prevent, control and defeat the health threats that we face today. i commend this measure to the house. (applause)
mr president, the creation of a european centre for disease prevention and control has never been so important. the recent sars outbreak, the current threat of a biological terrorist attack and even the current asian bird flu crisis illustrate the threat from disease in the global village that we live in today. the threat to europe's health from the rapid spread of disease is real and present. every year 1.4 billion passengers fly on an international trip. every one of them could pose a threat to global health security. if they were found to be carrying a new strain of influenza or sars they could within a few hours unwittingly put the lives of millions at risk. global warming threatens even britain with diseases such as malaria, while diseases such as tb are already returning. the correct response is not to turn our backs on the benefits of globalisation – we should not give up the opportunities presented by increases in trade and travel because of biological threats any more than for reasons of terrorism – but we need coordinated action. in today's world no one country can afford to go it alone. that is why labour meps so firmly back these proposals for a european centre for disease prevention and control. when it comes to tackling disease, europe works. the european commission was able to ban chicken imports from countries affected by the new strain of bird flu with immediate effect. without the eu, it would have required an enormous effort to coordinate the actions of all 15 – and soon 25 – member states. we need to strengthen that coordination and not weaken it through isolation. so i am pleased that tory meps will also back this plan today. however, i wonder how they can square that with their own hostility to europe and their policy of attacking the eu at every turn. the centre will contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the prevention and monitoring of human diseases in the eu. its technical work and research capabilities will be an asset, as will the work with the who. i agree that accessibility to information for the public is vital, and that is why the centre should have its own website to communicate its work and to publish its opinions. this is one of the eu's success stories, and we should be celebrating its creation.
mr president, i welcome the work of the rapporteur in bringing this own-initiative report together. it strikes at the heart of the central question facing european agriculture at this crucial juncture, namely, whether the agricultural community can expect to make a fair living from its activities. one of the report's most illustrative points is that, while agricultural incomes rose by 7% in the eu between 1995 and 2002, this was at the expense of a 15% decrease in the number of farms. that means that small farms have been swallowed up by increasingly large farms and production that has become more intensive. with consumers demanding more information on the means by which their food is produced, this trend is one that must be addressed. large farms, selling bulk commodities, with pollution risks and herd health problems represent a future that we must work to avoid. whilst the figures may continue to suggest that incomes are growing, they hide the impact of increasingly intensive farming methods. this must be borne in mind each time the european parliament – and more importantly, the european commission – consider direct aid via the cap. there is something seriously amiss with a system that continues to pump money into the pockets of some of europe's largest and wealthiest landowners through lavish subsidies. the duke of westminster – britain's richest man – receives eur 1300 per day in agricultural subsidies, while small welsh farmers are struggling to get by with as little as eur 7000 per year. (applause)
mr president, with regard to the kindermann report, many of my constituents are concerned about the unnecessary killing of dolphins and porpoises in europe's seas. it is time for us to act swiftly. that is why the kindermann report is so important. i am certain that these measures will make a real difference: a general restriction on the length of driftnets in the baltic sea from 1 july 2004, a further reduction in driftnet fishing by 1 january 2007; the compulsory use of acoustic deterrent devices and the introduction of a comprehensive system for monitoring the levels of dolphins and porpoises. these policies show why it is important to have a common fisheries policy and if these measures become part of that policy, we will then have the full force of the law across the 25 member states. that shows just how important the eu and its enlargement into eastern europe are for all of us concerned about the environment.
the commission is aware of the seriousness of the situation in the middle east and the need to ensure that the situation in the region is not exacerbated by the continuing violations of human rights. we therefore agree with many aspects of this resolution, not least the concern about the lack of action against zimbabwe. but we do not support the one-sided view of the situation in the middle east, where there is nothing about the appalling terrorism facing the israelis, the unrealistic and generally negative attitude to strong countermeasures against terrorism or the blind acceptance of the rome statute of the international criminal court. we have therefore abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. successful – that is, profitable – agriculture is an essential part of the rural economy and a major influence on the viability of basic rural services, from schools to post offices. many agri-businesses in scotland are facing major pressure on net incomes. in addition to the farm-gate price pressures which all farmers face, scots producers, especially those in highland and island areas, have to cope with high costs of transportation and other challenges such as climatic conditions. scots food producers must be encouraged by the new cap to capitalise on their already good reputation for natural production methods and resulting production of good quality and healthy foodstuffs, which consumers will want to choose.
mr president, for a minute i wondered whether mr van dam had come to the wrong debate, but i am glad that he turned his attention to northern hake. i congratulate the rapporteur on his report. mr souchet is one of the most hard-working members of the committee on fisheries and his expertise in this area has earned him the accolade of being appointed rapporteur on the recovery of southern hake, a report which is currently in the pipeline. during our deliberations in committee, it was repeatedly stated that the advice we received from ices – the international council for the exploration of the seas – in respect of stocks of northern hake was at odds with the advice of fishermen. indeed, the fishermen claimed that hake stocks were not in a state of terminal decline, as stated by the scientists. once again, this divergence of opinion has demonstrated the need for fishermen and scientists to work together in the preparation of management strategies. it is also clear that the commission must be prepared to listen to the advice of fishermen as well as to the dire warnings of scientists. in this respect, i am delighted that plans for the creation of regional advisory councils, which mr varela suanzes-carpegna mentioned, will bring together fishermen and scientists. these plans are well under way and constitute an essential part of the cfp reform package. had an rac been in place in this instance, i do not think we would have had the original recommendations for drastic cuts in hake tacs combined with severe effort limitation targets which the commission proposed and which have shocked the members of the committee on fisheries. cuts as proposed would have devastated the sector and caused widespread socio-economic hardship. i am glad that the commission has revised these proposals in the wake of strong representations from the sector. we all support sustainable fishing. we all have an interest in seeing the long-term recovery of northern hake. however, we also have a duty to sustain the livelihood of fishermen and to protect fishing communities. a balance therefore has to be struck which links best practice to achievable socio-economic goals. so, despite what mrs mckenna said, i believe that mr souchet has sought to achieve that balance and i commend his report to the house.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the berlin wall fell in 1989, western europe was engaged in building the single market, a goal we had set for 1992. history has seen the high expectations of integration joined with the unexpected hope of unifying the entire continent in peace and democracy. since that extraordinary moment, we have made tremendous progress, and most of the democracies that emerged from the collapse of the soviet bloc will soon be part of the union; our economy, despite problems and uncertainties, enjoys an unprecedented level of prosperity; in europe we have a quality of life that the world envies. in particular, the differences in wealth and opportunities between member states have narrowed over the years: this is a success that no other political organisation can boast of. yet, we cannot say that we are satisfied. we cannot because for some time now doubt has been making its way into the hearts and minds of europeans. it is a reaction to the process of globalisation of the planet with its profound and ever-accelerating changes. europe is now wondering whether it will be able to hold the levers of change in its hands and continue to drive globalisation, or whether it will simply endure it and defend itself against its dangers. we have to listen to the questions that come to us from the citizens, questions that are very simple. they ask themselves: will the cultural landmarks in which we recognize ourselves be erased? why is it that sometimes - indeed very often - getting older means risking getting poorer? why do young people find so much unemployment and precariousness? questions like these give rise to two opposing attitudes: a part of our society is turning in on itself, seeking an illusory security behind old, sometimes tribal slogans that fuel xenophobia and intolerance; but the vast majority of europeans look to us for positive answers and always ask: what is europe doing? this is a sound and mature position because it presupposes one simple fact: no european country can navigate the globalised world alone, and no one can cope alone with the rise of the big countries of asia, the technological challenge of north america, the flow of migration from the south of the planet. the strength to meet these challenges - our strength - is only in our union. and time has proved the intuitions of monnet, de gasperi, adenauer, schuman to be true: we have to bring together what makes us similar; we must fight for the common interest because only then can we defend the interests of each. ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the lisbon strategy in 2000 was the culmination of a collective awareness of this situation. in gothenburg, the project was completed with sustainability as a fully qualified element, and this strategy then mobilised energy and enthusiasm; the spring european council was the high point of the examination, the impulse and the decision. however, despite everyone's efforts, this process is stalling. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. why is that? because, to produce concrete effects, the strategy needs a coherent and verifiable project, it needs to organise the necessary instruments, those of the member states and those of the union, including the budget of the union. we must use our resources to increase europe's prosperity in line with its values. the commission's objective is to transform the union into a dynamic and knowledge-based economy. to provide jobs for our citizens; make economic growth socially and environmentally sustainable. before i go into detail on some of the decisions taken today, i should like to explain the spirit in which we have acted and the procedures we have followed. making a budget means matching resources to needs. as resources are limited, financial decisions must follow political priorities and choices; following, not preceding: it's a very basic concept. i have said many times that it is unacceptable to plan the future of our finances on the basis of a mere percentage. some have declared - with a certain solemnity - that the union budget must not exceed 1% of the european gross domestic product. this position has the disadvantage of putting numbers before the political project: it's like starting a house from the roof. i understand that countries facing difficult reforms would like the union to apply restrictive policies too; however, this approach is inconsistent because national expenditure at the level of each individual state and union expenditure jointly incurred are not fungible as they are qualitatively different. the union budget is not a superfluous expenditure to be minimised; community expenditure is used to support common policies, i.e. activities which the member states have agreed to manage jointly. it is more effective than national interventions and in many cases it is a necessary choice because it deals with problems which are by their very nature supranational. there are many cases in our lives where 25 euros spent in common are worth more than 25 euros spent by each country individually. this is an absolutely necessary concept to fix in our minds. saving the union budget does not increase national public resources, but only undermines the common home in which we live; however, it is necessary to focus available resources on priorities in order to maximise the benefits. for all these reasons, the commission has conducted the debate on the new financial perspective starting first with the things to be done, i.e. the project of the europe we want, and then, only afterwards, dealing with figures and percentages. the results do not depend solely on the amount available: for example, we have found that our current budgetary structure and some management rules are too rigid and that this rigidity has often slowed down the union's action, to the detriment of the common interests. it is not just a question of the quantity of resources, but of how these can be managed. we therefore also propose a budgetary structure which is able to respond with greater flexibility to new and unforeseeable circumstances. i would like to make one last substantive comment before moving on to the specific aspects of the proposal. the financial plan of any organization expresses, as we have said, its basic principles. among the principles of the union i would like to emphasize solidarity between citizens and between member states, solidarity which is expressed in the transfer of resources from the richest countries to the poorest countries and regions. our project maintains this basic policy choice and develops it in a new way, placing cohesion policy even more explicitly than in the past at the service of competitiveness and employment. there are three main reasons for this choice: it's a choice of consistency, of fairness and of opportunity. i am talking about consistency because fostering sustainable development is the central objective of our policies in the years ahead. unbalanced development will generate rejection or fear of europe in the most disadvantaged or peripheral regions, rather than trust and participation. it is also a matter of fairness because you cannot ask anyone to participate in a joint project without giving them the opportunity to keep up with the growth. finally, it is a question of opportunity, because our own experience shows that balanced and sustainable development, particularly in the poorer regions, is in turn a means of further prosperity for the richer regions. that is the thinking behind the financial plan i am presenting to you today. i shall now briefly explain the qualifying points. three, as i said, are the big priorities: promoting sustainable development; putting the concept of european citizenship into practice; strengthen the union's role as a global player. so: sustainable development, european citizenship, the role of the union in the world. i would like to stress one aspect of the first point. the single market is already largely a reality, and policies linked to it need to be integrated into the broader context of a growth strategy. this is a very important proposal, which changes the union's budgetary hierarchies: we can now promote the competitiveness of european enterprises by exploiting the fact that they already operate in a market without internal frontiers. i must repeat that if we are to be more competitive, we have only one way to go: quality, technological development, research and innovation; in a broader sense, the top priority is investment in human resources. that is the unifying point, the great change in this financial proposal. it is absolutely essential to devise a common strategy at european level to link our research centres and to train the best scientists and intellectuals in the world. it is necessary to open up europe and the world of education to lifelong learning. we have the tradition, we have the skills, we have the infrastructure; it is now up to europe to invest all the necessary economic and political resources. to come to the second point, i often repeat that our citizens can already feel within themselves a multiple loyalty: to their city, to their nation, to europe. one of our objectives will be to give substance to the principle of european citizenship. the union must work with national governments to ensure a uniform level of individual rights, security, protection and quality of life in the territory. this is about fighting crime and terrorism. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) to support the implementation of the european union's human rights policy. finally, it concerns the development of those services of general interest which are the backbone of our social model, such as health, food security, education, energy and transport. especially now that the union is seeing its final frontiers looming, it is time to imagine a true european identity. this is our new frontier for the next few decades: a frontier that will not likely advance in geographical space but will certainly advance in the territories of the spirit. we must therefore also work to promote creativity and exchange in the fields of culture, the arts, literature and the mass media. finally, as regards the role of the european union in the world, with enlargement and, in the future, with the complete unification of the continent, europe can truly become a force of balance and reference for the whole planet. the time has come, therefore, to take on the responsibilities that this entails in an adult way. firstly, we must exercise a clear responsibility at regional level by implementing the commission's strategy for the development of the 'ring of friends'. in the coming years we will have to develop this neighbourhood policy to share with our neighbours projects and policies, to ensure peace and stability through the spread of greater prosperity and our founding values. our responsibility, however, goes beyond the regional role. europe must maintain and increase its contribution to development, because the gap in opportunities and conditions between the north and the south of the world is repugnant to our political, civil and human tradition. this situation is also contrary to our interests and reinforces the disorderly flow of migrants which so worries our citizens. the union must therefore continue to give strength to dialogue, peaceful solutions and multilateral approaches. we must find a single voice on the international stage, with the ultimate aim of having a common representation in bodies such as the united nations, the world bank or the international monetary fund. in every corner of the planet there are those who see in us a hope for peace and a wise and balanced force. we cannot disappoint these expectations; we must overcome our differences and propose, together, the model we have refined in half a century of life. these, ladies and gentlemen, are some of the many objectives contained in our communication. to achieve all of them, as we are constantly asked to do, would require a budget much larger than the one we have been given so far. the commission is realistic, extremely realistic. we have been working in depth for a whole year six groups of commissioners, the whole college involved on several occasions in various seminars, all the directorates-general involved, all the cabinets involved and the materials of this enormous preparatory work will be made public on the web, if you can and will use them to encourage a more in-depth debate; we have analyzed, evaluated, selected and reformed; we have decided, not without difficulty, to remain within the current ceiling of the union's own resources, i.e. 1.24% of european gross national income, adding to it the funds for acp cooperation (edf) to be entered in the budget. on this basis we have rigorously, tenaciously and clearly defined a precise expenditure forecast which, by limiting payments to an average of 1.15% of gross domestic product, leaves sufficient room for manoeuvre. we are convinced that such a sum, although it is certainly not sufficient to achieve the objectives which the member states have set themselves and which they have unanimously proposed to us, will nevertheless be able to achieve concrete results. it is not just a question of numbers, but also of the effectiveness of spending. we are not only giving reasons for the resources needed, but we are also looking at a new structure to use them in a better and more rational way. this means continuing to improve the administrative culture and governance of the european union. while we believe that action at european level is necessary and more effective in many cases, the commission is also planning to involve other actors to streamline the implementation of our actions on the ground. in particular, the partnership with the member states is a relationship of increasingly active mobilisation of regions and local authorities. finally, we are working to drastically simplify the tools currently in use. to give just one example, we propose to reduce the instruments of action currently used in the field of external relations from over 100 to six, each dedicated to a specific policy and functional area. the communication i am presenting to you today is not a technical and accounting document. it is a political statement and as such i ask that it be examined. it aims to lay the groundwork for governing the major transformations of the union in the years ahead. the commissioners, the commission services and myself have been working with energy and enthusiasm, and i am sure you will see that energy and enthusiasm fully reflected in the outcome of our work. these pages are a great expression of the commission's renewed confidence in europe and its institutions. we are now submitting them to the parliament and the council for their analysis, and i would be very happy if they could also become a message of hope and realism for our future. (applause) i would like to thank
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i wish to make three comments. the first concerns the amounts necessary to meet the aspirations of everyone who wants to see a successful europe in the future – whether that ceiling should be 1% of gni, or 1.24%, or somewhere in between – and to remind everyone that today is the start of what will probably be a 12-month process. even though mr prodi has made a statement, if we go by past practices i do not expect a conclusion on this for at least a year. in december mr colom i naval, who is the rapporteur on the financial perspectives, presented a working document in the committee on budgets on the appraisal of the financial perspectives from their inception in 1988 to 2002. over those 15 years, the average budget implementation is, remarkably, 1% of gdp. the council could say that is sufficient, but to get an average of 1% over those years means we have to spend above 1% in certain years. in fact, we spent up to the figure mentioned by mr prodi – 1.15% – in 1993. my point is that this type of flexibility is needed if we are to continue to have a decent average. if that average has to be 1%, then there will be years when we will have to exceed 1% quite significantly. i am still not sure whether the council's figure of 1% includes the edf. i do not think it does, but that would therefore make it 1.03% at best. i want to make a comment to those member states which criticised the stability pact for being too rigid. they should also see that if there is a case for flexibility in the stability pact, then we do not need rigidity in the european union budget by sticking at 1%, as some member states propose. that has been shown in category 4, where, without the flexibility instrument, we could not have financed the actions in kosovo, serbia, afghanistan, iraq or in other areas. we need that flexibility in the budget. speaking in a personal capacity, we could manage within the 1% if those same member states had not already agreed that agricultural expenditure should be set in concrete up to 2013. (applause) i quote from the commission's document: 'a ceiling around 1% of gni would fail to meet the european council commitments on agricultural payments, would undermine the phasing-in of cohesion policy in the ten new member states and would jeopardise existing levels of other policies.' it goes on to say: 'alternatively, cuts would be needed across the board and existing agreements would have to be reopened, including the amounts decided at the brussels european council of october 2002.' i hope the council takes cognisance of that fact. my second comment is specifically to the council. to get an agreement on the new financial perspectives needs an interinstitutional agreement. i just want to remind the council that we are one of those institutions, and it will need parliament's agreement to get an interinstitutional agreement. we do not care if we do not get it: we will just go back to article 272 of the treaty and will still manage the budget without the council's say-so. that is not a threat, it is just a comment to the council, which it should bear in mind as we go through this procedure. (applause) my last point is that for almost the past 15 years – all the time i have been in this parliament and on the committee on budgets – the rapporteur for the financial perspectives has been mr colom i naval. this will probably be his last plenary session – i am breaking news here. he will be offered the job of head of the court of auditors in the catalan government, and no doubt will be taking it up very shortly. (applause) i want to pay tribute to his unceasing work; he knows more about this subject than anyone else – dare i say, boringly so! he can quote the interinstitutional agreement chapter and verse, but i have been glad of it on many occasions. i want to thank him for all his work over those 15 years, and also wish him well for his new post. i hope i express the whole of parliament's wish in that sentiment. (applause)
mr president, we welcome the debate this afternoon. as the commission president has announced, this is a commission decision already, and to come first to us in the parliament is always an agreeable thing so far as budgetary matters are concerned. first, from my group's perspective, we will be taking the view that mr wynn has just expressed: we would rather be very prudent about whether we need the financial perspectives at all. we had multiannual agreements which keep discipline, which we did not have before the financial perspectives were introduced. we do not wish guidelines – which is what financial perspectives are – to become an end in themselves. we should recall very clearly as we go through this discussion that we have the right under article 272 of the existing treaty – not necessarily under the constitutional treaty but the existing treaty – to be able to continue the budget process, and we shall therefore be very careful to see that parliamentary rights are properly safeguarded in the whole process. secondly, if there is to be a financial perspective, we welcome the ideas that the president has put forward today about better flexibility, categorisation and looking ahead to how money will be properly spent. let us be clear that there will not be any decision in this parliament about the final nature of this financial perspective. we also have to take inspiration from mr colom i naval's advice and knowledge of this. you and i, joan, had a common view about the last financial perspective and i sense it is very clear that we have a shared view on this one, particularly regarding the length of the financial perspective. we have made it very clear, in mr wynn's resolution and in our own group documents, that we do not want a financial perspective to go beyond the term of office of the next commission, because how can one possibly justify in democratic terms that we are deciding for future parliaments and for future commissions? we should stick to the term of office of the next commission, which is five years. to suggest a date after 2013 is to suggest that an old parliament will be committing a new parliament after 2014; it does not work. we will have to come to terms with that fact. the last thought is that now we are going to have enlargement – 25 countries – we know the difficulties will be very great in managing a european union. does this financial perspective address turkey in any way? or will that be an additional expenditure? should you decide in december 2004 to start negotiations? for many in my political group, and maybe across the parliament, to start full negotiations with a country when you do not even know what your existing financial capacity is – to run a union for 25 countries in this way – would be extraordinarily inept and irresponsible, because we need to know what the basis will be when we are negotiating with a country of that size. therefore, in conclusion, please let us avoid, when we come to decisions on this, a soviet-style approach to planning which is going to take us too far into the future of our commitments. secondly, let us make sure that it is properly democratic and let us not take decisions which we will regret later because we have taken on countries for which we do not have the financial capacity.
mr president, president of the commission, it seems that some of our member states have been seized by a seven-year itch: it is the irresistible urge to scratch around for the best financial deal for themselves. but in their rush to advance their own interests, the member states are failing to ask what might constitute the best deal for europe. liberal democrats and reformers believe that governments should first, as the admirable mr colom i naval has suggested, take a long, hard look at what they have asked the european union to do, and then give the institutions the resources they need to do the job. governments should also ruthlessly tackle waste and fraud, most of which occur at national level, and target spending on our priorities to ensure maximum value for money for taxpayers. britain, france, germany and three other states have formed an unholy alliance, united only by their zeal to keep down their budget contributions. even putting aside the wider benefits that the european union buys, the eu needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities. this year we will integrate ten new member states. europe is charged with important new responsibilities abroad, and with the task of keeping us safe from crime and terrorism at home. reviving growth requires progress on the ambitious reform agenda of lisbon. do the six states really expect the eu to do all of this on 1% of europe's gross national income? with spending set to reach 1.11% of gni in 2006, a ceiling of 1% in 2007 means not recalibration but cuts. none of these member states can tell us where the axe will fall. indeed, i would wager that they cannot even agree among themselves. my warning to europe's citizens would be caveat emptor: buyer beware! these are the same governments who agreed in 2002 to a 1% annual increase in spending on the common agricultural policy. if member states demonstrated a real willingness to reform the cap further, it would be easier to take seriously their calls for parsimony. as it is, we are running this union on just over 1% of the gross national income of the member states, when the budget of the federal government in the united states is 20% of gni. we must continue to strive for savings where possible, but also equip the union to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. my group believes that the key to better value lies in a modest budget increase, leaving a safe margin for unforeseen expenditure, linked to reform, less waste and more intelligent investment. not promises of smarter spending from member states with no will to deliver it. (applause)
the commission. the commission has already taken measures to inform citizens about the transitional arrangements for the free movement of workers. an electronic guide on the free movement of workers to the new member states is already operational and is available on the commission's website in 20 languages. at the same time, a printed brochure will soon be available in all languages. as far as the member states are concerned, it should be made clear that the treaty provides for the first two years after accession that access to labour markets is a matter for bilateral agreements or national decisions of the member states. the treaty also provides that member states are not obliged to notify the commission of what they will do during this phase. of course, for the sake of transparency, the commission has asked the member states to communicate their position and i would like to inform you that so far the united kingdom and ireland have stated that they intend to open up their labour markets fully, while austria, germany, belgium, finland and denmark have stated that they will implement national measures for the first two years. austria and germany have also indicated their intention to invoke the safeguard clause to restrict access to certain sectors of services listed in the treaty. in any case, when we have full information from all the member states we will inform parliament. the commission is also in regular contact and cooperation with the member states' services to ensure the uniform application of these transitional arrangements and is also working on a number of interpretative directives, which have so far been the subject of cooperation and consultation with the member states.
thank you, commissioner, for that answer. your colleague, commissioner vitorino, has also answered this question very comprehensively and skilfully in the past, arguing that the wild numbers predicted for portugal when it joined the european union were way off the mark. we are now witnessing the same phenomenon with predictions for movement of labour from the accession countries. my point is that i would not ask the commission to give out information which it has no legal requirement to provide. i am glad of the cooperation between the commission and member states. but there is real confusion. the noble aim of enlargement has led to confusion among people on the ground – european citizens – who are now anxious about the extreme predictions of the numbers of people who will come. i do not agree with these extreme predictions, but the commission has a role to play in giving out sensible information about what we can expect and what it will mean for free movement and, indeed, for benefits regimes – although this is a matter for member states. that is not coming through collectively. on a more positive note, i would ask about movement the other way – people from existing member states who, for example, would like to retire in cyprus or work in poland. we are getting enquiries about that positive element of movement. will the commission provide information?
commission. it is easily understandable that in many member states, particularly those with common borders with the newcomers, public opinion is concerned about the impact on the labour market. i have said repeatedly that there are many independent studies concerning the flow of immigrants after day one of enlargement, working on the assumption that ten newcomers will join europe at the same time. the overall conclusion of these analyses is that mobility from the new member states to the current 15 member states is likely to remain rather limited. as for the questions concerning social rights, let me repeat two things. first, from the moment that a worker is a legal worker in a member state, he or she has all social rights and access to all kinds of benefits and social security systems. as far as pension rights are concerned, during the italian presidency we agreed on a regulation covering the social rights and pension rights of workers not only from the new countries, but also from third countries. that regulation provides a concrete answer to the question of pension rights.
following on from that question, commissioner, i should like to raise the issue of derogation and the issue of regulations that are being unilaterally applied by some countries that have not applied for derogation. in the case of the uk, it has indicated that it is not going to put any block on the movement of those who wish to come and work in the uk. now, however, late in the day, it is talking about a number of regulations of a domestic nature, in relation to our social security and other systems, that will have a discriminatory effect here. does the commission have a view on this approach or is it happy to leave it entirely at the disposal of domestic governments to decide how they will deal with the matter within the first two years?
thank you, commissioner, for a helpful and very informative reply. i do not think any blame for the problem lies with you because you do not have many battalions at your disposal! you can only set a lead. the price of heroin going down would suggest that the supply of heroin is increasing. we know that the crop in afghanistan is getting bigger and bigger, and with the use of cannabis and synthetic drugs ever growing, clearly we are not winning the battle. so my question is: how can we strengthen policing in europe in the fight against the use and the distribution of drugs?
i would like to ask the commissioner a supplementary question as an mep who actually attended the summit in geneva and was therefore able to see the extensive engagement on the floor of the conference by members of civil society, which i thought was very helpful. i would also welcome an invitation to mr staes' meeting. although i went to the summit, i was entirely unaware of his interest, so maybe we could get together later. one of the points i made when we had a debate on this issue, commissioner, was that i felt that parliamentarians need to be much better engaged in the process. we only had a small meeting with the interparliamentary union. would he work with the european parliament so that we can get a better engagement, both of european and national parliamentarians, as part of the tunis agenda and in the run-up to tunis?
commission. let me first welcome the consistent activity of mrs hedkvist petersen on the issue of road safety, including esafety. she has a real case here, because the number of road accident fatalities in the current european union of 15 member states was about 40 000 per year in 2001. this figure is unacceptably high and, therefore, we have the ambitious target to halve this number by 2010. a wide range of actions are being taken by the eu and the member states to make this target a reality, with the result that, according to preliminary data, the number of persons killed on europe’s roads last year amounted to about 35 000 persons. the commission has recognised the great potential of the new information and communication technologies in saving lives by mitigating the consequences of accidents or even completely avoiding them. in september last year the commission adopted a communication entitled 'information and communications technologies for safe and intelligent vehicles'. it proposes 11 measures that promote the rapid development and deployment of new active safety systems in europe. the work in realising the actions proposed by the communication is under way. we have established, together with the industry, member states, stakeholders and members of parliament, the 'esafety forum'. under the forum seven working groups are active on priority esafety topics. the first results are available in the 2003 summary report, which is available on our esafety website. we would very much welcome the opinion of the european parliament, as well as a commitment from member states. the commission is also considering mandating the installation in commercial vehicles of electronic systems whose effectiveness has been proven in practice, such as electronic stability systems for buses and heavy goods vehicles. furthermore, the commission is using the sixth framework programme to develop further the technologies for in-vehicle active safety systems. an integrated project, 'prevent' – which has over 50 partners and an overall budget of eur 60 million, with about eur 30 million of community funding – is the most important project in this area.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. hedkvist petersen raises a very important issue, namely that we really need cooperation between different sectors. we need not only safe cars, but also different types of infrastructure that work together. we have made some progress in cooperation, for example the common telephone number 112, which facilitates road accidents. it is clear that in this area we would need more pressure from above to organise cooperation between industry, infrastructure authorities and insurance companies. we hope that the work on esafety will be helpful and perhaps we could also get the member states to pay more attention to this sector. in our first eeurope 2002 action programme we had a specific action line on e-transport, but unfortunately it could not generate enough interest among the member states. on the positive side, we had a major world conference in madrid last autumn with some 7 000 participants. the member states also showed more interest at that time. the hungarian government has invited a conference on esafety to be held in budapest in may 2004. we hope that not only it ministers will be involved, but also transport ministers and the authorities responsible for transport infrastructure. without coordinated technology and infrastructure, we cannot achieve any tangible results.
i also thank the commissioner and his services for what is an outstanding programme – the esafety programme. i have been privileged to participate in a number of the high-level working meetings. i would like to ask two questions specifically, to add to what he has told us already. the first relates to his views about the likely development of the ecall technology, which will give automatic location of a vehicle after an accident. this seems to me to be one of the most important proposals on the table and the one that is the most feasible. it also builds on our work in mobile telephony. secondly, i want to ask for the commissioner's assurance that his services will consider sympathetically, in looking at the phase 2 standards for pedestrian protection, the major contribution that accident avoidance technologies will make in that improvement in reducing pedestrian casualties. i have just seen results from german tests which indicate that the phase 2 structural standards may not bring about the sort of improvements that we had been expecting.
the commission. in order to clarify the situation we are in, i would first like to point out that turkey is not a member of the european union, that we have not even started accession negotiations with turkey. the european union has a duty to help turkey to develop its economic and social cohesion. i therefore refer to the earlier answers to the questions on the same subject by baroness ludford, by yourself and by mrs lambert, and i repeat that any negative consequences arising from the baku-ceyhan pipeline agreement signed by turkey or from the implementation of this project must be assessed in the light of the copenhagen political criteria. that is the only thing the commission can do here. it is our task to examine whether turkey fulfils the political criteria or not, with a view to the possible opening of accession negotiations. in this context, it is of course also necessary to examine whether or not human rights are fully respected in turkey. the commission will of course deal with this question in its report which will be submitted in the autumn of this year. the commission is aware that a number of ngos lodged a complaint with the court of first instance in january 2004. the commission has not yet been officially informed of the precise content of this complaint. if the court of first instance so requests, the commission will forward its observations in accordance with the relevant procedural rules.
i thank the commissioner for his statement. although there is only a pre-accession agreement with turkey, he can be assured that the european parliament is fully aware of turkey's candidate or non-candidate status and that this has some legal impact. i was one of a number of members who petitioned the commissioner to include an assessment in his last report, last november, on this specific issue. this did not happen, so i very much hope that an in-depth analysis of the human rights, environmental and other impacts of this pipeline will form part of the assessment this year. could the commissioner help all of us by saying what mechanisms, approach and analysis he is going to take to investigate this? what will he be doing between now and november to answer the questions, so that we can be assured his report is full and fair?
the commission. i assure you that we will pay attention to this question in the crucial and final report on whether or not turkey fulfils the political conditions for accession. the commission will look into this matter as it does into all other human rights issues in turkey. it will draw on all available information from its own sources, from member states' sources, from human rights organisations and international monitors, and from publicly available sources. it will of course also ask for information from all those involved and then evaluate this information. if necessary, missions will be undertaken to obtain a direct picture of the situation on the spot. we attach great importance to the fact that the assessments we make have a solid and unassailable basis, and this will also be the case here.
does the commission share the view that the baku-ceyhan pipeline is a project of great importance both for the future of european energy supplies and for the economic development of turkey and other countries in the region?
- the next item is the statement by the commission on salmon problems.
mr president, when this debacle began it was with disbelief that many of us watched how a report whose science was questionable could jeopardise one of the most important rural industries in scotland. scottish salmon farming supports 6 500 jobs, 70% in the highlands and islands, injecting gbp 2 million every week into the scottish economy. scottish salmon accounts for nearly 40% of all scottish food exports. the bias of the press coverage and the lack of quality information led to a food scare based on insubstantial evidence and falsehood. i was pleased that the commission took prompt action to put right the evidence and to speak up for the safety of scottish salmon. so too did the food standards agency in the united kingdom. the substance of the food scare was based on a highly misleading piece of research published in the american journal science. pcb and dioxin levels in scottish salmon are significantly lower than the threshold set by the eu, the food standards agency, the us food and drug administration and the world health organisation. professor hugh pennington, a leading food expert said: 'the evidence is pretty clear that the officially recommended levels, which are higher than the ones that the scientists are talking about, are actually safe.' the methodology of this research has been called into question. the conclusions are based on a controversial risk assessment model that was introduced by the us environmental protection agency. the risk assessment model is not recognised by international organisations responsible for food safety and public health such as the who, which considers it scientifically flawed. additionally, the salmon used in the study were purchased prior to the country of origin labelling regulations, and so the study has not even ensured that the salmon tested were farmed in scotland or the eu. on top of all of this, the research does not contain any new information. even the figures used in the research are questionable, as they differ from uk government official figures. with this in mind, the food standards agency does not accept the research findings and advises people to eat two portions of fish per week, with one portion being oily fish, such as salmon. sadly the american research has ignored all the health benefits of eating salmon, which contains high levels of omega-3 fatty acids and is proven to reduce the risk of heart attack. sir john krebs, chairman of the fsa, backed this up. he said that although dioxin levels have decreased dramatically over the past two decades, they remain a consumer concern. the known benefits of eating one portion of oily fish outweigh any possible risks. on the subject of fish feed, which was also brought into question, the feed of us, canadian and chilean producers comes from the same sources as that for the scottish fish farmers. it seems strange that us, canadian and chilean samples should be free from levels of the substances under test, compared with those from scotland. to my mind there is something very odd going on, when the basis of a report can be taken as read without thorough investigation. in fact, one of the scientists involved in the research – dr david carpenter – has confessed that 'there may be some legitimacy in saying the reason they chose to fund this study was that they had another agenda well beyond the health effects.' scottish quality salmon members already undertake measures to ensure the quality of its feed supplies and have in place a testing regime to ensure its standards are met, as well as the rigorous environmental regulation that fish farms adhere to, which has been improving year on year since fish farming began. the scottish environmental protection agency has a specific remit and responsibility to regulate salmon farming – 63 pieces of legislation, 43 european directives, 3 european regulations, 12 commission decisions – that help reassure consumers that the product they are consuming is of the highest quality. i do not know if the commission is in a position to comment on the proposed anti-dumping measures. i understand that there were ongoing negotiations this weekend between the irish presidency and the british government. if you have an opportunity to comment, commissioner, that may be useful. a line needs to be drawn under this episode. damage has been done to the scottish salmon farming industry, there is no doubt about that. however, we have to move on, highlighting the falsehood of the accusations and the importance of eating salmon as part of a balanced, healthy diet. it is because of our membership of the eu that we can work together in order to seek solutions. the european commission's immediate response reassured consumers that eating salmon is safe. it is only by action at the eu level that we can take action against false food scares and bring reality to bear.
chairman of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, i wish to begin by answering some of the questions posed by mr ó neachtain, because he asked who funded the report which appeared in science magazine and caused all the problems. few realise that the research on which the article was founded was commissioned by the philadelphia-based pew charitable trusts, worth an estimated usd 3.8 billion. they are well known for their international campaigns against global pollution and they have recently become influential opponents of the aquaculture industry. the science magazine article – based on a usd 2.9 million research project carried out by the institute for health and the environment at the state university of new york at albany – has, as previous speakers have said, proved to be deliberately misleading in the advice it provides on salmon consumption. and yet, i think all of us in this chamber would be astonished at how that article suddenly appeared in newspapers all over the world. the reason is that on the day it was published in science magazine it was sent out by press release by an international pr company based in new york and simultaneously appeared on the website of the canadian-based suzuki foundation, which campaigns on behalf of alaskan wild salmon and which, of course, has a vested interest in damaging the european farmed salmon industry. in their conclusions about limiting salmon consumption, the study's authors appear, as mrs stihler said, to have misapplied an already suspect risk model developed by the us environmental protection agency by failing to include any analysis of the health benefits of eating salmon, despite over 5 000 scientific papers attesting to the necessity of eating oil-rich fish as a regular component of a balanced diet. the research does not actually contain any new information: the data the research provides is no different from the findings of previous studies that also found dioxin levels in farmed salmon to be well within official safety limits. however, the interpretation used in the research paper deliberately exaggerates the health risks. moreover, the pcb levels in all eu farmed salmon are significantly below the level determined to be safe for sale in supermarkets, even by the us food and drug administration, as well as by all other international watchdogs, including our own eu food standards agency and the uk food standards agency. the american research is therefore seriously flawed. eu fish farms undertake rigorous inspection and quality control regimes to ensure that only the highest possible environmental and welfare standards are met and that the public is provided with an entirely safe, non-toxic and reliable product.
mr president, consumers are entitled to know what they are eating, and i fully support that as a public health imperative. however, in order to make properly informed choices, it is essential that scientific information be accurate, up-to-date and verifiable. in recent times, looking from scotland, it is perfectly possible to believe that certain campaigners are making it their business to talk down specifically the scottish salmon-farming industry and talk up specifically, as has been suggested, wild salmon from certain other areas. just publishing an article in a magazine entitled science does not automatically verify the accuracy of its contents. it is clear, as the commissioner acknowledged, that there is no new evidence in the particular study published in science. it is also clear that the levels of various contaminants were within standards set by the european commission and the uk and scottish food standards agencies, which are not bodies that are easy to satisfy in that regard. the research totally failed to mention the positive health benefits that can be gained from eating fatty fish such as salmon. organisations such as scottish quality salmon, which has very high standards, should be encouraged. they require of their members constant improvement in such things as feed quality. it is inexplicable to me to suggest that scottish and irish salmon, but not other farmed salmon fed on exactly the same feed, somehow did not come out of this study as measuring up to the same standards. the measured approach adopted by the commissioner is right, and i hope that, as others have said, there will be support for measures to protect this industry, which in scotland is essential for employment and social cohesion in very fragile areas.
mr president, this is clearly a very important subject. salmon farming has often been criticised in the past for its environmental impact, but only recently have potential health impacts been raised. it is crucial that these be better understood. health advice given by governments across the eu traditionally highlights the importance of eating more fish. yet, if risk analysis suggests that consumption of farmed atlantic salmon poses health risks that detract from the beneficial effect of fish consumption, then we need to know more about that. we need to understand more about it and we need to act on that knowledge. we need to know for certain that farmed salmon has more contaminants than wild fish and that dioxins are among the most toxic chemicals ever created. so far the debate has been dominated by arguments over whether the contamination found in the salmon was legal. what we should be concentrating on is whether the salmon is genuinely safe. that might well mean revisiting the limits that were set for contamination in 2001. i want to get away from the arguments for or against scottish salmon or any other kind of salmon. these are not very helpful. we should be talking about whether aquaculture itself is providing a viable and environmentally sustainable food for humans, and i would argue that the answer is increasingly looking like 'no'. also associated with aquaculture is a whole range of other problems, including the spread of disease and parasites to wild fish, the use of fish, fishmeal and fish oil as food with impacts on wild fish stocks, pollution of the sea floor from unconsumed food, the impact on predators when they are killed and the antibiotics used to control the disease. there are some genuinely important issues here that need to be looked at and yet, perversely, governments continue to support aquaculture when, in many ways, they might well be better off putting their time and resources into rehabilitating the natural habitats of salmon so as to allow the wild stocks to recover. this latest health report on salmon should be taken as a wake-up call to change the way we farm fish. i look forward to a commission revision of the standards based on genuine safety measures, not on allowances for background environmental levels, because health cannot and should not be compromised.
commission. mr president, i should like to respond very briefly to the issues that have been raised. i am happy that it has been acknowledged by parliament that the commission responded quickly to this issue and that a clear explanation was given when it first came into the public domain. i should like to make a clarification statement and to repeat what i said earlier. it would be a mistake to confuse the presence of dioxin and pcbs in the fish, and the presence of pesticides in feed. one questioner suggested that the commission had made a statement earlier that was different from what is being said now. that interpretation arises from a confusion of what has been said, which is that the dioxin levels are within eu maximum levels, but the pesticides in food are not, and i gave two instances that were above that. that is a question of the levels being above the appropriate levels in the feed rather than in the fish themselves. in answer to the question i was asked by mr ó neachtain in relation to the joint report that has been furnished by the irish and united kingdom authorities, i have to say that report has not reached my desk, nor has it reached my dg. i am, of course, making inquiries about it, but that report may have been on a related issue and sent to a different dg. it is something i will look at if it has been sent to me and if it is relevant to my portfolio. finally, on the question of further risk assessments, the european food safety authority is carrying out a risk assessment on the presence of non-dioxin-like pcbs. it is quite clear that my services and the european food safety authority are keeping an eye on this issue.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the crisis in the steel industry.
the commission. mr president, as has been said by members, the relocation of firms to countries with cheaper labour is a permanent phenomenon of economic history. i would like to make a few specific comments on the basis of the remarks made by the honourable members on the role and the possibility of intervention by the european union. firstly, as regards the international arena, it is clear that there is a global negotiation on the steel issue at the moment and the european union wants to reach an agreement on subsidies because, as we know, there are countries that give subsidies, and that outside the framework of the world trade organisation. the second point is european social law. i think it is very important to remember that the final decision on a company is taken by the management of the company, but that the management must follow the specific guidelines on consultation of employees, their information and timely information, and the community law on collective redundancies. the first stage of implementation of these directives, because they are national law, concerns each country, but of course it also concerns the european union, since they are also european law. the third point is the structural funds, that is, european money for enterprises. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would remind you that for several years now subsidies in the steel sector have been prohibited. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not possible for an undertaking to receive european money and not respect the conditions for the disbursement of that money, and of course in such cases the agreements are signed at national level and the national courts have the power to impose any penalties. the question of subsidies is one aspect of the structural funds. the second, which is also important, is the intervention in the area of social impact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most important weapon in restructuring firms is the continuing training of workers so that they can face the problems of their sector and can re-enter the labour market at any time. i think it is important, therefore, that in the negotiations currently taking place at tripartite level between the company, the workers and the italian government, this possibility of aid and support for workers through the social fund should be taken into account.
- at the end of the debate i have received six motions for resolutions (see minutes) pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
- the next item is the oral question to the commission (o-0003/2004) by mrs bushill-matthews and mr pronk, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on demographic developments in the european union.
mr president, i am delighted that the house has agreed to debate this important topic. i also hope that this is an issue on which the whole house can unite on a cross-party basis. the subject is not just about demographic trends in general. my oral question specifically asks for more attention to be given to issues associated with ageing. too often, ageing is just seen as a problem; it should also be seen as an opportunity. too often, the elderly are seen as people with disabilities and with needs; they should also be seen as people with abilities and with rights. there are many aspects to be reviewed, but in the time available i will just focus on one: the opportunity for the elderly to continue in work if that is their wish. i therefore welcome the approach taken by the employment task force chaired by wim kok. this report refers to one of the lisbon council conclusions that is often overlooked, that by 2010 the target is for 50% of 55-64 year-olds to be in employment. currently, only sweden, denmark, portugal and the united kingdom have reached this target. belgium, italy, france, luxembourg and austria have employment rates for older workers of less than 33%. delaying the average age at which people leave the labour force is crucial. luxembourg, belgium and france among the current member states, plus poland, lithuania, hungary and slovakia among the incoming member states all have average work exit ages well below the eu average. they will be particularly stretched to meet the agreed target and their policies will have to change radically in order to achieve it. will they grasp the challenge? but even the eu as it exists today will miss the 50% target unless it can increase the number of older workers in work by seven million over the next seven years. this means that two-thirds of the current 46-55 age group must still be active in the labour market in 2010. this means in turn a significant change, because only half of those in this group and in employment in 1991 were still working ten years later. this is the reason i tabled this question. it is a matter for member states, but the issue is: will member states act on these employment task force conclusions within a defined and early timetable? will the commission put together an early progress report to present to parliament, ideally by the end of this year? finally, will member states implement all the provisions on age discrimination in the employment directive without further delay? i hope the answer to all of these can be 'yes'.
- this meeting is adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 10.35 p.m.)
mr president, although this is an annual stocktaking we are close to the five-year assessment of the achievements of the tampere programme and thought now needs to be given to tampere ii. we have to say that the commission has done its job, but the council's record is not outstanding. both output and method need improvement. looking first at asylum and immigration, we still do not have all the pieces of the jigsaw in place for common policies. europeans need to have a sense that we are truly acting together to have well-regulated but fair systems in which responsibility is shared. but where is the solidarity in the disgraceful way that, one after another, 13 member states have signalled they will impose restrictions on free movement from new eastern member states? states have been more zealous about toughening borders and deporting illegal immigrants and on making sure immigrants are legal and integrated. the council passed a grudging directive on long-term immigrants and one on family reunification. however, there has been no rush to implement the 2002 anti-trafficking framework decision to catch the criminal gangs, and recently in the uk 19 chinese immigrants tragically died. it appears they were trafficked, but there is no law in place. we have major challenges in europe in addressing prejudice and discrimination and promoting equality. the challenge to integrate the roma looms large on our agenda. i am delighted president prodi is holding a seminar on anti-semitism next week, but why has the council failed to agree the framework decision on making racial harassment and racial attacks criminal offences? we need to enhance our understanding of what integration means as opposed to assimilation. yesterday the french national assembly voted overwhelmingly to ban the hijab and other overt religious symbols. we in britain, where policewomen can wear the hijab, look on this with cross-channel bewilderment. in the area of anti-terrorism and law enforcement, there has been much useful activity, but a lack of balance in concern for civil liberties, democratic accountability and transparency. i am delighted the european police college will be located in england, but less impressed that the uk government, with 12 citizens and residents in guantanamo bay – half the total of europeans there – has failed to take the lead in getting a common position and joint action by the european union to persuade the us to apply international law and uphold prisoners' rights there. the mutual legal assistance agreement that was signed with the us, over our objections, stressed the rule of law, but does not seem to have borne any fruit. now we are taking too many steps invading personal privacy – agreeing to let the us access sensitive air passenger data and to put biometric data on visas and passports – while making no efforts to get an instrument for data protection in the third pillar. this shows an extraordinarily cavalier attitude to individual rights. in the future we will need to make more of an effort to raise the quality of our observance of justice systems through a process of mutual surveillance and peer review. that is going to involve some interesting questions about where the balance lies between european common action and intervention in national systems. but we have to reinforce our efforts, because the quality of what we are doing on freedom, security and justice is not yet adequate.
mr president, i shall restrict my remarks to the area of legal migration, a subject touched on by both mr mcdowell and commissioner vitorino and picked up by several colleagues here. i agree with much of what mrs kaufmann said earlier in her reference to kofi annan's speech to the european parliament a few days ago. mr mcdowell spoke earlier on about family reunification and allowing in migrants for purposes of study and training. but that is only part of the issue concerning legal migration. commissioner vitorino on the other hand has tried over the last few years to push forward a more imaginative agenda with a wider framework. i believe very strongly that without a system of legal migration into the european union – something like the green card system that the united states has in place – we will continue to face the challenge of illegal immigration with all its problems. we will continue to face the difficult problems of trafficking gangs and all the crime associated with that, to say nothing of the continuing shortage of labour in key industries, both skilled and unskilled. unless i have missed a key point, i do not believe there is an alternative to planned legal migration. but i am also absolutely convinced that this must be done in a manner that is positive both for eu countries and for the countries of origin. it is not acceptable just to take skilled workers from less-developed countries, nor is it acceptable for rich eu countries to say they will take migrants to do those unpleasant, dirty jobs that they do not want to do. this is why i urge the commissioner and the council to press on with this very difficult work in an important area – a structured programme for planned migration for a european union of 25 countries and more.
mr president, the nuclear non-proliferation treaty is an agreement by 189 nations to eliminate nuclear weapons. however, 34 years after it entered into force, we are in a situation where the united states is willing to launch pre-emptive nuclear strikes, where the uk refused to rule out the use of nuclear weapons in iraq, where research and development and the testing of nuclear weapons continue, where nuclear weapons are still considered a vital part of nato defence planning, where new generations of battlefield nuclear weapons are developed and where the nuclearisation of space is well under way. in the last review conference in 2000 the 13-step plan was agreed as a way of implementing the npt and it renewed the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear states to eliminate their weapons. the prepcom in new york is the last chance to implement this programme before the next review conference in 2005. unless we take a strong stand now, the npt is in danger of becoming meaningless – full of good intentions, but resulting in little political action. the european union has a duty to take a leading role in this and to ensure that real action is taken. nuclear weapons make the world more insecure and dangerous. the international court of justice ruled in 1996 that their use, or even their threatened use, was unlawful, which makes the strengthening of the npt all the more urgent. we are talking here about real, existing weapons of mass destruction and destroying them in the most effective way by enforcing international agreements. we are asking the presidency, the council and the commission what exactly is being done in preparation for the prepcom in new york. what progress has been made, for example, on the 13 practical steps and on nuclear-free zones? my country, wales, declared itself nuclear-free in 1982. what is being done to support the pioneering work of the mayors of hiroshima and nagasaki in mobilising cities throughout the world to work for the total abolition of nuclear weapons? this must be the goal of all of us.
mr president, i do not share the optimism of either the council or the commission on this. the fact that two member states of the european union possess nuclear weapons undermines the moral authority of the whole of the eu when it comes to the debate on weapons of mass destruction. the overwhelming hypocrisy of the british and american governments in demanding the disarmament of others, while simultaneously upgrading their own nuclear capacity, is clear for all to see. this is an untenable, hypocritical and very destabilising position. we have heard a lot about international law recently, so let me remind britain and france that, according to the icj at the hague, nuclear weapons are immoral and illegal. according to commitments made at the sixth npt review conference, all nuclear states made an unequivocal undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals leading to nuclear disarmament. that was four years ago, and very little progress has been made since. britain and france should lead by example and unilaterally dismantle their nuclear warheads. there should be immediate removal of us nuclear weapons from european soil. these are undoubtedly ambitious aims, but if we are serious about the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, this is the route we have to take.
mr president, i, on behalf of the eldr group, and the ppe-de group jointly tabled an amendment. is it in order that ppe-de group can do a complete u-turn and table an oral amendment that is the opposite of its original amendment? at the same time, the group seems to be are disagreeing completely with its conservative colleagues – and the shadow rapporteur was a conservative. what state has my amendment …
should the oral amendment not be taken after the vote on the amendment, because they are amending the paragraph, rather than the amendment i tabled?
in writing. - i voted against this report today, as i did in committee. the commission's initial proposal was for a recovery plan for cod and hake based on scientific advice, which was very similar in its assessment of the situation of both these fish species. intensive lobbying by those with a national interest in the cod fishery influenced the decision of the commission and the council to separate the two and first tackle the recovery measures for cod, which has proved to be discriminatory against the scottish whitefish sector. at committee level, the souchet report was almost completely rewritten with amendments favouring national interests in the coal-mule fisheries. this feature further contributes to the perception of many scots that certain national fishing fleets are favoured while scotland is favoured by the eu administration. the most important factor in this process is the fact that some member states have governments which are willing to make the survival of their fishing communities a priority, while scotland is so unfortunate to be represented by the united kingdom government which regularly betrays us in the negotiations of the fisheries council.
mr president, i welcome the cercas report and congratulate the rapporteur on a very balanced approach. in the uk, 4 million people – or 16% of the workforce – currently work more than 40 hours per week. at the beginning of the 1990s the figure was 3.3 million people, or 15% of the workforce. it beggars belief that more people voluntarily want to work in excess of 40 hours a week now than was the case at the time of the introduction of this directive. this calls into question the use of the individual opt-out and whether genuine free choice of workers, as laid out in the directive, is being respected. long hours damage workers' health through stress and burnout; they affect the productivity of industry and harm family life. no one should be forced to work more than 40 hours. i support flexibility, but there must be genuine free choice, and i am not convinced that free choice currently exists.
madam president, israel's occupation of the west bank and gaza is deeply troubling and i would refer in that context to the shooting and subsequent death of my constituent tom hurndall. but the security threat to israel is also very serious. it is fair to ask why, if the only point of the barrier is to stop suicide bombers, the barrier is not on the 'green line'? why does it make such incursions into palestinian territory and create such hardship? i do at least welcome the announcement two days ago that the barrier will be moved closer to the green line. i also welcome prime minister sharon's intention to withdraw from the gaza settlements. a senior fellow at the council on foreign relations in washington, henry siegman, wrote recently that support for the cause of palestinian nationhood does not require denial of jews to live in their own state. that is precisely my position: two states side by side, with the right of return of palestinians largely to a state in the west bank and gaza. but it must be a viable state. of course the achievement of this does not rest just on israeli shoulders. palestinians have to want peace and avoid terrorism. it is very difficult to contest israel's right to make itself secure, when palestinian leaders seem unable to stop suicide bombers. there are desperate people, but i am not convinced that desperation is the only basis for suicide bombers – they are also recruited and exploited. the palestinian authority is in crisis, not only because of israeli hostility – although that is a strong factor – but also because of corruption and criminal lawlessness. i note that 350 activists resigned in protest last weekend from yasser arafat's fatah movement. perhaps this parallels the case taken by israeli ngos to the israeli supreme court in protest against the barrier. the crucial priority is to get back to political negotiations. i am not convinced that the international court of justice case helps, because it diverts from that. what would help is grassroots democratic pressure, both in israel and in palestine.
madam president, it is a matter of great regret that the european council has not supported the examination of the israeli wall at the international court of justice. this is a hugely wasted opportunity. opposition to a hearing at the icj, because it is a legal – not a political – forum, misses the point. the icj is probably the last available instrument of pressure on tel aviv, and we should be grasping it with both hands. those people who say that instead we should be relying on european pressure on israel should tell me when european pressure alone on israel has ever yielded any results – it has not. yet, when there is an international multilateral forum that exists to address this issue, we turn our backs upon it. palestinians rightly point to the inconsistency of our position of urging them to give up violence, while simultaneously denying them the chance to seek redress through international legal institutions. a palestinian negotiator observed that the us, the uk and germany asked the palestinians not to have recourse to violence, but when the palestinians have recourse to diplomacy the door is slammed on them. moreover, there are compelling humanitarian reasons to act. i visited the occupied territories last month and saw for myself how the wall is destroying thousands of acres of farmland and trees, demolishing homes and shops and leaving thousands of families landless, jobless, hungry and hopeless. as a result, according to studies by the world bank and the un, the palestinian people have been reduced to the poverty and malnutrition levels of sub-saharan africa. the israeli claim that this is something to do with security is completely undermined by the fact that the wall does not follow the 1967 'green line'. instead, as people have said, it cuts deep into palestinian land. this wall is intolerable, illegal and immoral, and by failing to support the icj as a forum to consider it, the council has been reckless and irresponsible. the council has also not been transparent, and i would like a copy of the letter that contains the presidency's submission to the icj to be made widely available.
mr president, as we have heard, the parmalat case was a catastrophe for its employees, for investors, for savers, for its creditors, for its customers and indeed for the financial markets. it is our duty as legislators and policy-makers to see how we should respond to that and to see what we can do to try and prevent that kind of catastrophe from occurring again. how can we ensure that the whistle is blown on this type of criminal conduct before it reaches the catastrophic and disastrous proportions that it reached at parmalat, before it goes on for years, as it apparently did at parmalat? i appeal to the house to ensure that our response is proportionate, is measured, and looks at the facts of what happened in a dispassionate way, that we have a thorough analysis of what happened, of what went wrong – if anything – with the regulatory system, and of how we can improve the legal and regulatory framework to try to prevent a parmalat from happening again. we can be proud of the fact that this process started before parmalat happened because, as people have said, there have been scandals throughout the world. enron is the biggest, but there are others throughout the european union. few people were foolish enough to say 'well, enron happened in the usa and we do not have any problems in the european union'. if they said that they are obviously feeling rather foolish about it now, but that was not the general response here and in the member states to the enron crisis. we looked at what happened and responded to it. that will help us because we have prepared the ground to try to tackle a similarly disastrous event within the european union itself. as many people have mentioned, we need to look at the role played by the professionals – the bankers, the auditors, the ratings agencies – that were involved with parmalat, to see if in the future there is some way of ensuring that they are not taken in, that they are able to assist savers and investors in detecting this kind of fraud, and that they are properly regulated; and to examine whether further regulation would ensure that they are better able to detect this kind of fraud. but we should not make the mistake of trying to turn auditors and lawyers and ratings agencies into policemen, because that simply would not work. we need also to accept that the kind of obvious criminal and fraudulent conduct that we saw in the parmalat case is something that can never be eliminated completely. no matter how effective and wide-ranging our system of regulation, you are always going to get fraudsters and criminals who will break the rules. we must focus on better enforcement of the rules and regulations that we have. in many ways, that is a question for member states. they need to devote many more resources to their police forces, particularly those specifically dealing with financial crime. that is one of the biggest lessons we can learn from parmalat. we do not necessarily need to introduce a whole range of new regulation, which may in the end just prove to be a burden on those many market participants who are completely honest. we need more cooperation between our national regulators, not a single european union regulator. the member states should devote more resources to fighting financial crime and having a large, effective police force to fulfil that task in the future.
mr president, the parmalat scandal comprises a series of quite distinct crises. firstly, there has been fraud of gargantuan proportions; secondly, there is a systemic crisis in the market place, and, thirdly, there is a very considerable social disaster in italy, where most of those affected are living. i do not want to make any more remarks about either the fraud or the problems there may be in italy. i would prefer to talk about its effect on the markets. we sometimes forget that one of the lessons of the twentieth century was the clear emergence of the evidence to support the view that markets are the best driver of prosperity and the best creator of jobs that we have seen in the world. it is therefore clear that the proper working of markets is essential to our collective future wellbeing. those markets must be arranged so that criminality is difficult. however, just as it is impossible to organise the city of strasbourg to make it impossible to be mugged, equally, it is impossible to organise the financial markets to ensure that there is no outside possibility of criminal fraud taking place. we should recognise that. secondly, it is important that investors have confidence in the market. the claims and evidence that companies produce about themselves should be transparent, and the rules about the way in which that information is put together should be unimpugnable. i welcome commissioner bolkestein's remarks on his review of auditing and auditing standards. equally, the governance of companies in the marketplace should be beyond reproach in terms of the way in which decisions are made. again, i welcome the commissioner's remarks in his statement. furthermore, the claims that are made in the market and the advice that is given to possible participants in it must be such that there is no suggestion of impropriety. i must ask – and perhaps i say this as someone who is not standing in the forthcoming elections – can the same be said about the claims that the political parties are going to make in the forthcoming contest? we must not forget either that even in the case of apparent large-scale losses by banks, it may well be that in a world where private provision of pensions is going to become increasingly the norm, it is the small people who get hurt by these disasters. it is the confidence of the small investor – either directly or through pension funds – which is so important for the workings of twenty-first century capitalism. many speakers have mentioned regulation. regulation is the answer, but not over-regulation. that must be the lesson that we draw from this crisis.
mr president, it is a pleasure to address you tonight on this important theme. this afternoon i had the fortune to chair a meeting in which we were discussing the proposed directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. in that discussion, what came out most clearly was that the biggest difference among the legal systems of the european union is actually the difference concerning procedure, rather than the substance of law. proposals for the approximation of procedural law are amongst the most difficult to achieve effectively. that is something that we need to bear in mind. as you well know, i represent an area of scotland in this house. we, in scotland, have the unique good fortune of having a legal system that is more or less half and half, i.e. an amalgam of the civilian systems of mainland europe and the common law system of england, ireland and northern ireland. perhaps the commissioner should devote her time to studying scots procedural law as a potential bridge between the two great different systems of this continent. however that may be, in my group we certainly support the idea of moving from conventions to regulation. mr medina ortega is entirely right to say that the regulation is the right instrument to deal with these problems of harmonisation. finally, in relation to small claims, all that is in the gargani report is admirable. however, i should particularly like to underline, in regard to the service of documents, paragraph 6(i) that states: 'service should effected by specialised personnel with legal training capable of explaining every aspect of the procedure to the debtor'. much of what we have done in the way of harmonisation is defeated at the moment by bad translation, lack of interpretation and lack of clarity. i beg to support that point.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur for a very fine report, which i know we will all support. i should also like to thank the commissioner and his team for their fine work in the field. i remind colleagues that in october 2001 the oppression of afghan women was highlighted globally. the assumption was made that the removal of the taliban regime would ease the women's plight. today, two and a half years on, amnesty claims that the international community and the afghan administration have been unable to protect the rights of women. rape and sexual violence by members of the occupying armed forces are still widespread. in the western province of herat, taliban-like decrees are still widespread and, as a result of this oppression, more women in afghanistan are committing suicide now than they were under the taliban regime. human rights watch reports many sexual assaults against children. despite the rhetoric, the creation of the women's ministry, the karzai government pursues anti-women policies, and there is no legal protection, while older legal systems still in position prohibit them from getting help. women's resistance to the regime still has to work underground. the revolutionary association of the women of afghanistan is forbidden to open an office and distribute its magazine. people caught reading its literature are still in physical danger. commissioner patten said that afghanistan had reached a crossroads. i believe, as do amnesty, human rights watch and the revolutionary association of the women of afghanistan, that the government has taken a wrong turn and that the position of women is worse than it was before. (applause)
madam president, sadly afghanistan has been slightly forgotten about in the aftermath of the iraq war. a lot of resources will be needed to rebuild the country, and the eu is a large donor; in my view this entitles us to lay down significant political conditions, including demanding progress in human rights, particularly women's rights to education and access to the workforce. i also regret the new constitution, which gives primacy to sharia law over international, un, civil, and political treaty obligations: this may cause conflict over areas such as female lapidation. i am concerned at the lack of security and the necessary concentration of isa forces in kabul to protect the government. there have been significant regroupings of taliban and al-qa'ida forces bent on murdering international aid workers in the provinces, which will set back progress. i do not believe president musharraf is doing enough to rein in terrorist groups in pakistan's tribal areas and north-west frontier provinces; this is ostensibly because islamabad's writ does not run to these parts. more must be done if he is to have credibility in the fight against international terrorism. i was delighted that the bactrian gold treasures were recovered and i would like to see funds devoted to the reconstitution of the national museum in kabul as a symbol of national pride under the patronage of the royal family, which is a benign uniting force in the land. lastly, on the subject of the opium crop, my amendment has suggested consideration being given to buying and burning or using it for medical purposes as a painkiller, as a cheaper alternative to drug enforcement measures by the international organisations dedicated to fighting the drug trade and business. it would save the international community a lot of money to burn it and pay the farmers, instead of spending many billions of dollars fighting the drug trafficking trade.
madam president, the situation in afghanistan is of great interest to this house. this important report, in the context of the development of democracy in afghanistan, is highly topical. as the report emphasises, the situation since the end of the taliban regime has improved, but additional efforts need to be made. for example, as many have said this morning, the situation of women must be highlighted. literacy is still unbelievably low, with only a 10% to 15% literacy rate among women. only one-third of school children are girls. they are often held back from returning to school. and even if some of these women go to school they face violence just for attending. these trends are strongest outside kabul, in the south and east of the country, where the situation of women is not so well known but is much worse than in the political centre. the constitution, drawn up in january, specifically recognises the equality between men and women. 25% of the seats in the house of the people are reserved for women, yet it remains uncertain that this provision, along with others establishing rights for women, will help to implement women's rights properly or help women get elected in the coming election. many members have talked about the issue of drugs. we live in a world where a poppy grown in afghanistan can end up being illegally sold as heroin in scotland. the human suffering caused by the drugs problem and its links to crime in our communities concerns us all. that is why we should support the afghan national drug control strategy, which sets the target of complete elimination of poppy growing by 2013. i am pleased that the uk government plans to deploy an enhanced drugs team to kabul and kandahar by the end of the year and has made gbp 70 million available, over three years, for law enforcement, capacity-building, alternative livelihoods for those who are involved in poppy cultivation, and demand-reduction initiatives. we must ensure that capacity for effective public administration continues to improve at central and provincial levels.
mr president, first, may i apologise to the house for missing much of this debate, but unfortunately i had to be present at the stoa panel to vote to try and prevent the suppression of a scientific report at the behest of europe's chocolate multinationals on inedibles in food. doubly unfortunately, the vote was lost by 11 votes to 8. on afghanistan, firstly i congratulate mr brie on his report on a difficult subject in a difficult country. i was privileged to be part of the delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy to afghanistan in june 2003. it was clear that security is the paramount issue. unfortunately, the glass increasingly seems to be half-empty, rather than half-full. the occupying coalition troops and the united states sit out their days in their fixed and mobile fortresses, when on the streets they exhibit the same heavy-handed style currently displayed in iraq. isaf has a footprint centred on kabul, limiting its operations to 2% of afghanistan's land area. the rest of the country is effectively abandoned to feuding warlords who monopolise revenues and dispense arbitrary justice in their private prisons, making president karzai at times little more than the united states-backed mayor of kabul. after the marines killed three afghan national army soldiers in a friendly-fire exchange, isaf stepped in to broker peace between the two groups, ostensibly on the same side. yet for many in the afghan national army, the isaf and the united states troops are merely all flowers from the same garden. campaigns without resources to spread isaf's presence outside kabul are wishful and wistful thinking. no-one seems able or willing to find the money to increase the number of troops – some 40 000 would be needed for nationwide coverage. in the south the main targets for the remnants of the taliban are foreigners, but without reconstruction work, the temptation for the local population is to see the situation as no better, if not worse, than under the taliban. many people argue that large sections of the taliban could be brought back into civic society, but to do that would be to shift the social centre of gravity back towards an islamic conservatism that bodes ill for women's emancipation. human rights is important, particularly the situation of women. formal rights may well be given but they are unlikely to play out in the villages. the best hope for the future may be universal education, which will not change current attitudes but rather those of the next generation. the united states and the eu are pushing bottom lines that in practice are probably undeliverable. as the united nations special representative said, if you are trying to introduce western-style democracy in afghanistan, you are wasting your time.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr brie on an excellent report. i also had the honour of being on the delegation to afghanistan. i know that some people have congratulated me on being a first in a number of things. another first that i now count is the fact that i was sitting having tea with some of the biggest drug dealers and drug producers in the world. i am particularly addressing my remarks to the honourable member who, i know, is going to disappear into the sunset before too long, but maybe he can make a great contribution to european safety if in his few months remaining he takes on board some of the issues i was talking about. the total value of the poppy crop at the farm gate in afghanistan is estimated at eur 700 million. its heroin street value is estimated at eur 12.5 billion. the amount of revenue spent by member state police forces, customs services and anti-drug squads to control heroin imports and use alone adds up to eur 4 billion per year. the number of arrests for drug offences throughout the eu is around 700 000 people per year. 60 000 people are imprisoned every year for drug offences, leading to annual custodial costs of eur 1.5 billion. we need an alternative development approach for afghanistan which integrates eu drug policy into its development policy. we have to offer the rural population economically viable and steady means of earning an income. therefore is it not far better to stop this trade at the point of growing, rather than the point of consumption or distribution? if we do this, we will save eur 4 billion in policing costs alone, and eur 1.5 billion in custodial costs. i propose to the honourable member that we manage this transition, from poppy growing to fruit growing, as we now do for greek tobacco, which we buy and burn. a similar exercise could be done for the poppy crop in afghanistan, and i would like the honourable member to take this on board seriously.
mr president, i have taken our vice-president, mr dimitrakopoulos' chair, just to remind ourselves that democracy in the mediterranean did not begin with this debate. i thank the commissioner, whose work as governor of hong kong ensured the continuation of the democratic life of that territory, which i hope will spark changes in the wider china. it is my pleasure to be rapporteur on the communication 'reinvigorating eu actions on human rights and democratisation with mediterranean partners'. we welcome the communication and its ten points for action. we note that it was published in 2003. since that time, the meda process has taken on a new lease of life, with the agreements in december to establish the euro-mediterranean parliamentary forum. in december also, the council, while failing to agree on the european constitution, did at least agree that the paper presented by the commissioner and by the high representative entitled 'strengthening the eu's relations with the arab world' would be adopted in march. we welcome that. i am also rapporteur on the two regulations dealing with the continuation of the european initiative for democracy and human rights in 2005 and 2006. while endorsing the communication on 'reinvigorating eu actions on human rights and democratisation with mediterranean partners', we are also examining these two regulations. parliament will vote today on whether to have a say in the priorities and running of this programme, the european democracy initiative, because the resolution put forward by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy today points out that this fund, which uniquely requires no host country consent, should be more focused, especially on what i describe as the 'arc of instability' from russia to morocco, where democracy is fragile, or on the arab world, where it is non-existent. the commissioner's references to the undp report underline the importance attached to it by the commission, but unfortunately the commission needs to put its money where its mouth is. we need to examine very closely the way in which the european union is funding programmes in this region. for example, he mentioned a figure of eur 100 million for good governance in the meda region. in fact, in the wider mediterranean, my understanding is that eur 500 million a year is available for good governance. but of this, only eur 7 million is currently budgeted through the european initiative for democracy and human rights. reference has been made in this house this morning to forthcoming elections in algeria and tunisia, where very little money is getting through to the ngos and activists who are looking for a free media and the development of human rights. unfortunately – i have had some experience as the originator of this democracy programme – it is now rather bureaucratic and errs on the side of safety. the only way of dealing with this is to try and adapt it to the realities of the present situation. an unstable world to our east and south demands special actions. having had experience of working in this field in the 1990s with the ex-soviet union, through an external agency which had an agility and freedom to manoeuvre not enjoyed by the commission and the deniability not available to the council, i can say that, with the advantage of parliament's involvement, we have a much more effective programme. i welcome the commissioner's assertion that he will be open-minded about further suggestions we might make as a parliament. i intend to bring these forward, especially since i understand this morning that the council has decided to withdraw the regulations as presented and to present them in a new format, thereby delaying yet further the adoption of the regulations. this debate will continue.
mr president, on a point of order under rule 9a and annex xi of the rules of procedure, i should like to ask the president if he would refer the events of this morning's stoa management committee to the anti-fraud office for investigation. the committee voted by 11 votes to 8 to suppress a scientific report on inedibles, in respect of which the european academy of sciences' advisory committee stated: 'this report is, overall, a reasonable, impartial and balanced piece of work on a very difficult topic.' the peer review would lead me to conclude that it should definitely be published. it is important that the general public realise that this decision was made on the basis of grave political errors, rather than believing that the committee has become a majority-owned property of european chocolate manufacturers. (applause from the left)
mr president, as we debate, yet again, this issue of the regulation of lloyd's of london, 63 names are currently facing bankruptcy proceedings against them in the english courts. this is not an abstract issue to them, nor is it a matter that has long since been resolved. it is a very real issue and one that will continue to be of serious moment for years to come. those 63 people did not become names under the present regulatory regime, but in the pre-2001 period. the losses that they are now faced with and that are, seemingly, forcing them into bankruptcy, occurred under the regulatory regime enforced between 1978 and 2001. those 63, the petitioners to this parliament, and thousands of other names from many european countries have one simple question, the question put in our resolution of last september and reiterated today: did the united kingdom, between 1978 and 2001 implement, fully and correctly, directive 73/239/eec relating to lloyd's? this question has been put to parliament by petitioners. it is a legitimate question. we have put it repeatedly to the commission. the commission, so far, seems strangely reluctant to answer it. the dossier presented to parliament in december in response to our resolution of september 2003 is totally inadequate and conspicuously fails to offer any answer to that central question. commissioner bolkestein, who launched two sets of infringement proceedings against the uk government over the regulation of lloyd's, regularly tells us that his responsibility is only to bring a member state into compliance. that is right, but only in part. he has other responsibilities as well. life would be simpler for us all if there was only one responsibility. that is never the case. allow me to remind the commission that it has a treaty obligation, under article 197, to answer questions posed by parliament. that article is not there to allow clever sophistry, like the question once posed in an oxford university admission interview, which asked: 'is this a proper question?', to which the smart-alec reply is, 'yes, if this is a proper answer.' that may well do in a university interview, but not in parliament. if a non-reply was sufficient, there would be no point in having the treaty obligation in article 197. citizens have a treaty right to petition parliament about whether rules are being respected. the commission has a treaty responsibility to ensure that eu rules and directives are properly respected. parliament has a treaty right to have its questions properly answered. i can only assume that, for reasons unknown to me, the commission finds it embarrassing to answer this question. clearly the british government is acutely embarrassed and i find it shaming, as an englishman, that the british government is being so secretive in this case that it ordered the withdrawal of all british responses from the file the commission released to parliament. what on earth does it have to hide? the commission should not aid it in this secrecy or become complicit in it. when this petition was put to the commission, i believe the commission behaved correctly. it investigated the petitioners' complaints. it was clearly not satisfied with the situation and sent a detailed questionnaire to the british government. although this house has never been allowed to see the responses, it is obvious that the commission was still not satisfied, since it launched infringement proceedings. subsequently it launched further, separate infringement proceedings covering the regulatory regime post-2001. the commission now judges that the current regime is in compliance. well, it knows the facts and we do not, so we cannot comment at this moment on that. but the commission's satisfaction with the post-2001 regime does not take away our right to ask the commission about the regulatory regime prior to 2001, nor the commission's responsibility to answer us. the eu has to be based on a system of rules and laws. there cannot be a pick-and-choose system. policy-holders of lloyd's have a right and need to know whether the solvency rules were being respected. people who invested in lloyd's names also have that right. as one said to me, we had a right to assume the rules on solvency were being respected and that we were not operating, as it were, in the wild west, where rules could be ignored. if the commission persists in refusing to give a clear answer to this house, we have a major difference about the interpretation of article 197 of the treaty and a major interinstitutional problem. in my opinion parliament would need to refer this to the european court of justice for resolution under article 232 of the treaty. under that article, if parliament believes the commission has failed to act, under the obligations imposed upon it by the treaty, then the ecj can be called upon to give a ruling. i hope that this afternoon the commissioner, whom i greatly respect, as indeed i do commissioner bolkestein, will now at long last give us a straight answer to a straight question. did the united kingdom between 1978 and 2001 implement fully and correctly directive 73/239/eec? yes or no?
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his very careful reply, which he relates very much to this particular question, the issue of lloyd's. i should like to think of this in terms of two very general principles: firstly, the implementation of legislation by member states and action by the commission to ensure that that happens; secondly, the entitlement to information between parliament and the commission during such enforcement measures. i should also like to apply some common sense to those two principles. looking with common sense at how this particular matter proceeded, one cannot but feel that something is not quite right, that there is a period of 20 years when nothing seems to happen and no implementation takes place. i am sorry, commissioner, that your colleague, commissioner bolkestein is not here. i know that he shares our deep concern about implementation of legislation by member states and making sure that it happens effectively so that the internal market, of which we are all so proud, works properly. however, if it takes a member state over 20 years to implement a directive, and a member state can carry on without doing that for such a long period of time, then common sense tells us that something is not right. i am greatly concerned – as i am sure others are – about the message that this sends out to acceding states on the eve of enlargement concerning the way we conduct our business and the way we expect member states to adhere to community law. it is all very well to say that there is no past incompatibility. as a lawyer, that sounds to me like a very nice, lawyer's answer. what we are looking for here are common sense answers and an answer to the question as to why a member state can be so long in default and why it is that we, as parliament, cannot get a simple answer to a simple question about that. (applause)
mr president, i wish to begin by dealing with the allegation contained in mr perry's report that directives have not been implemented. that seems to have been accepted in this house. however, that assertion and allegation have not been proven. mr bolkestein has on many occasions – both to the committee and to this house – indicated that he could not look at past regimes: he could only rule if current law was compatible. some of us heard that, but others failed to hear it. if there is alleged past failure, then the place to seek redress is in the national courts. this has been played before the national courts on many occasions, and the judgments have gone against the plaintiffs. indeed, at the moment before the english high court there is a case of alleged breach of statutory duty against her majesty's treasury and the secretary-of-state for the department of trade and industry. yet mr perry calls for documents which the uk government has sent to the commission, whilst failing to recognise that those same documents may form part of its defence. any defence has to present its case before the relevant court. equally, i have learnt, from being a member of the committee on petitions, that one of the petitioners is about to bring a case before the court of justice. let me refer now to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. there is a degree of ignorance or naivety that appals me. parliamentarians do not have to refer to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 in order to gain access to documents. there is an interinstitutional framework agreement for parliamentary access. but, if anyone were to read that regulation, he would see that the infringement proceedings are a particular exception under article 4. let me just refer to something mr perry said. all of us in public life must be consistent in the application of principle. mr perry said that he finds it shaming that the uk government was so secretive that it undertook the withdrawal of documents. what does it have to hide? this morning i was in the stoa panel discussing and voting on a study on inedibles in food product packaging. mr perry voted for the suppression of a public document. i fail to understand that. we must be consistent in the application of principle. the commission has met its obligations. if parliament wants to go down the cul-de-sac to the court of justice, let parliament prove itself foolish.
mr president, iran is a great country with a glorious past. i also believe it to be one of the most sophisticated middle eastern societies, with an inherent tendency towards progress and modernity. perhaps its fundamentalist islamic revolution will be seen, with the passage of time, as a blip in the curve of its traditionally long historic record of advancement. it is precisely for this reason that at this critical juncture of the ongoing power struggle, the eu must maintain open supportive dialogue with both the government and the reformists, and in particular with the modernisers within the government. we have already seen the welcome suspension of the barbaric medieval punishment of female lapidation for adultery, and iran has now agreed to sign the npt additional protocol to put a stop to its covert nuclear weapons programme, now fully out in the open after the confessions of abdul qadeer khan in pakistan. ultimately, democracy too will prevail and the mullahs of the council of guardians will hopefully return to their intended spiritual and pastoral role.
mr president, political murder is a heinous crime in darkness: it is even more chilling in daylight. mr chea vichea, trade unionist and member of the cambodian opposition, was shot and killed on january 22, beside the road in phnom penh, in the middle of the day. so brazen was his killer, that passers-by mistook the bullets for firecrackers. mr vichea is the fifth member of the opposition alliance of democrats to have been murdered in 2004, and the latest victim of a year of violence. his funeral brought into the streets a crowd estimated at 30 000 strong. i know why, having met mr vichea last april and been deeply impressed by his commitment to democracy and good government and improving the lives of his fellow citizens. mr vichea was a founding member of the sam rainsy party. he was a committed advocate of the rights of cambodia's 200 000 garment workers. his killing, along with that of activists from the funcinpec party, adds to a temper of political intimidation in cambodia that is worsened by the failure of the caretaker government to respond to these murders. whether the cambodian people's party is responsible for these killings or not, its persistent failure to apprehend and punish the killers leaves it accountable for the rising tide of fear in cambodian politics. hun sen's government continues to rule cambodia without full legal and constitutional authority. it is imperative that a negotiated settlement be reached to enable legitimate government, yet negotiations cannot take place in the shadow of political murder, which sours attempts to construct a viable coalition and threatens to provoke retaliatory violence. the european parliament must condemn not only this killing, but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that cambodian authorities allow to persist. our resolution calls for the suspension of all non-humanitarian aid to cambodia and for the european commission to refuse to deal with hun sen's government. the eu should not do business with a government that fails to safeguard the lives of democratic leaders. in conclusion, we call on the council to issue strong words of condemnation.
mr president, my group has no problem with the second of those amendments, but we feel that the first weakens the text and therefore we object to it.
mr president, i draw attention to the fact that in a recent eurobarometer poll european voters identified the subject of immigration among the top four issues for the forthcoming election campaign. we have a situation in which member states in the last five years have so far failed in their treaty obligation to establish a common asylum and immigration policy offering a reassurance of orderly control of asylum and immigration, a level playing field and responsibility-sharing. they have made a complete mess of free movement from the new member states and in some member states – such as my own – there has been complete hysteria from the popular press; there is a worrying rise in anti-semitism and islamophobia; passions have been inflamed by the proposed ban in france on the wearing of headscarves, and so on. we therefore face quite a dangerous situation. mr president, when you meet the heads of government at the forthcoming summit, would you ask them to do everything in their power to ensure that the subjects of immigration, asylum and the integration of immigrant communities are handled with sensitivity and tact so that we ensure that there is no extremist success at the forthcoming elections?
mr president, i want to alert parliament and the commission to the earthquake that occurred late last night in the atlas mountains in morocco and which has caused a considerable number of deaths there. i am also speaking on behalf of my friend and colleague mr deprez when i point out that there are a lot of people in brussels and in this parliament whose families are in morocco. the commission is very good at providing humanitarian assistance via echo, and this is an instance in which we should move as fast as we can.
the commission, mr garriga polledo, has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you for announcing that you will continue to support the european commission. i think we really need to stress this: enlargement to ten member states is not a cardboard box, and the people expect the european institutions to apply equal rights here from the outset. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. i think it would be a very bad sign if, just before enlargement, we started to question the decisions taken in copenhagen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can assure you, mr rapporteur, that the preliminary draft budget for 2005 will be presented on time.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to say that, as president prodi pointed out in his letter to the president of parliament of 20 february, the reason why he cannot be here is that he had long-standing appointments with the prime minister of romania and the president of côte d'ivoire, and as he is unfortunately not gifted with ubiquity, if he is meeting these commitments, he cannot be here. another issue is the presence of the council, which i do not discuss, but obviously we all like to see the three institutions here in this parliament. we like the council to be here too. the question of employment and growth: as regards the super-commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not speak, because it will be for the new commission to see how it is organised - and the new president, according to the treaty of nice, has important capacities in this area - to see how a commission of 25 members is organised, which i believe can be organised very well and can work very well, and which, not because it is 25, must be difficult, but quite the opposite. i do agree with the honourable members on the need to strengthen industrial policies in some way. my colleague, mr liikanen, has done a great deal of work over the years, but there is no doubt that in the new context of globalisation we must continue to make progress in this area, together with external trade activities, because the two are closely linked. the first point - competitiveness and cohesion - deals with these extremes. it discusses issues such as access to public markets, transeuropean networks and growth measures linked to growth policy and strategy, not just the lisbon policy but the one put forward at the last european council in brussels, and it also raises points such as making progress with proposals on the interactions of industrial policy and other community policies; proposals to improve and simplify legislation in key industrial sectors so that their competitiveness can be strengthened - sectors such as the automotive, construction, cosmetics or the information society. the employment field also deals with all the social aspects - in short, there are many policy measures which are designed to achieve this. and i said it, and you are quite right, mr swoboda: we need to recover growth, strong growth that will allow us to go ahead and absorb the new states and make enlargement a success, as we all hope and count on it. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission. first of all, the question by mr swoboda on the situation of the sinti and roma in the european union. let me say again that in all the enlargement negotiations which the council has conducted, as in those with the commission, special attention has been paid to the question of how minorities are treated. we have paid particular attention to this issue and it is quite clear that enlargement will greatly strengthen and above all protect the rights of these minorities, so that i believe that it is precisely these minorities who welcome the enlargement of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 2005, a total of eur 900 million from the european social funds will be available to the new member states. i think it is also important to ensure that part of this money is used for these purposes. as regards security issues, the council has repeatedly taken new decisions in this area. in the last few years, the council has taken more decisions in no area than in the field of justice and home affairs, and of course the resources must follow those decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is proposed to finance the transformation of the european police academy into a european institution for training police officers and to strengthen the network of national training institutions, to name just a few measures. i would like to point out that we have also increased the number of staff in this area considerably in recent years. to put this in words: in 1999 this sector had 82 posts available, next year it will have over 300 posts available, because it is precisely about creating an area of freedom, security and justice in europe.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, we would all like to be young forever, and the honourable members of this house certainly do. i would like to say that the first concern at the level of the european union with regard to the problem of pensioners is the sustainability of pension systems in the various countries of the union. that is the first effort that is being called for and, in fact, in the reports on the economic reality of the various countries of the union, this element is being systematically taken into account when analysing the situation. in this situation, in addition to analysing debt or deficit or growth, it is considered what is the level of coverage, the level of balance and sustainability in pension systems, and as the honourable member knows, in several countries of the union reforms are being carried out to ensure the sustainability over time of these pension systems, which is the first thing. the second issue, the ageing of the european population, is something that is being taken into account in various policies. it does not appear as a specific chapter, because if we are to present a list of priorities, we must necessarily concentrate on a few points in our proposals for action, but it is obvious that this issue is present when we talk about the quality of health care, or about transport, about facilities for people with reduced mobility, to mention some of the clear examples of the existence of such policies. because, apart from the question of pensions, what we have to think about is that the elderly must be fully integrated into the whole of society, and what cannot be marginalized or discriminated against, but on the contrary, included, integrated and always kept in mind.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioners for their statement. on external actions, i noted that the commissioner mentioned iraq but did not mention afghanistan. the european union has done a lot in afghanistan; we have committed and spent money faster than ever before in keeping our promises. i am worried about the security situation in afghanistan, however. the money might just as well have been thrown down the drain if the situation reverts to where it was a couple of years ago under the taliban. the same situation applies to iraq. unless the security situation is secured, we are putting money from the poorest people in the world into an area which is quite rich. i feel that there is some measure of caution that we need to exercise in whatever we do in iraq, unless the security situation confirms that the funds we give for cooperation and development are secured and that we are not wasting the money because the situation becomes unstable and dangerous. on the point of the lisbon agenda, i should like to ask the commissioner to look back at the record of the conservative party: in 1977 my country was considered the sick man of europe; my party got into power under margaret thatcher and we are today one of the richest and most prosperous regions of europe. you do not need to go and reinvent the wheel: please read the books.
mr president, in january liberals in this house welcomed the presidency's strong focus on the lisbon agenda. your priorities for the spring summit have restated that commitment. europe is stuck in second gear. as america accelerates, as a resurgent asia pulls into the passing lane, europe is trailing behind. we must not let the recovery fool us. if europe is picking up speed it has more to do with the slope of the road than with the state of our engine. as commissioner lamy said a week ago, we have oversold expectations of lisbon and we have underinvested in results. any sustained economic recovery in europe has to be built on job creation. an export-led return to growth could conceal an american-style jobless recovery that will leave us no better off when the road levels out or when the next climb begins. more and better employment is the key to sustained growth and prosperity and the only sustainable route to social cohesion. we cannot allow recovery to be a fig leaf for governments reluctant to reform. a return to growth can only hide the weaknesses of the european economy; it cannot remove them. a failure to use the good times to gain leverage against the bad is the very failing that did for the stability and growth pact. this summit must rebuild that pact around a new order of commitment to financial discipline and debt management. governments must free people to work the hours they choose and keep the flexibility they need. we have to make work pay and open new ways into work for women and older people. we have to end the failures in education and re-education that are limiting the potential of too many europeans. we have to invest more in research and development and foster more competitiveness and innovation. the only european social model that matters is the one that preserves our common prosperity for the future. we need to set attainable targets and concentrate on delivery. we know what needs doing. we need delivery on policy, not wish lists and hand-wringing. another 'high level group' will simply deliver another expensive tranche of obvious conclusions. while my group supports job creation and the return of older workers to the employment market, we had more in mind than consultancy positions for retired prime ministers. the presidency has rightly identified the need for european governments to act more decisively, not only in council but at home. in many cases the commitments made in council have been allowed to stall at the transposition stage. the latest figures from the commission show that last month 131 internal market directives – that is 8.5% of the total – have not been fully implemented in at least one member state – in breach of their own deadlines! we need to be tougher on policing the internal market. this spring summit has to be about delivery. before june, liberal democrats in this house expect final decisions on crucial measures to assist european worker mobility, including in the area of the mutual recognition of qualifications; we want real progress on a framework directive on services, and we feel that it is past time for agreement on a financial services action plan that can free up europe's capital markets. the lisbon agenda gave us a decade to reform. five years on, too little has been done. we cannot afford to be standing here five years from now wondering how we let europe get left behind.
- you've come a long way in three minutes!
mr president, the spring summit must be an opportunity to re-evaluate the lisbon agenda with a greater emphasis on the environmental and social aspects of sustainable development. we cannot just focus on competition and a free market economy to deliver the type of europe that we want. this was agreed in lisbon and in gothenburg but is not being implemented. the so-called big three meeting between britain, france and germany last week proved that, despite the leadership shown by the irish presidency and the fact that many small states would be joining the eu in may – half of them smaller than wales, the constituency that i represent – the big member states still wanted to dictate the agenda. their focus is on economic reform and flexibility, to the detriment of quality employment, better pay and conditions, greater attention to caring needs, the sustainable use of resources and creating an inclusive society. these issues have to be given priority at this spring summit if we are to achieve sustainability and quality in europe in the future.
mr president, as we are addressing the issue of the european economy in the debate on these reports, the point i would like to emphasise is the vital importance of turning the lisbon agenda from rhetoric into reality. advances have been made since european leaders declared that they were going to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy within ten years, but there have also been a lot of steps back. it seems to me that a fundamental aim of the lisbon agenda is to produce economic reform and more flexible labour markets. in many cases, however, we have seen the european union going in the opposite direction to this aspiration. labour markets are not made more flexible by measures like the temporary workers directive, which could drive hundreds or thousands of temporary workers out of employment. i am also concerned about plans to phase out some of the opt-outs to the working time directive, which give additional flexibility. of course it is important to ensure that people do not have to work excessive hours, but there are many aspects of the working time directive that just add red tape and do not give proper protection to working people: these measures just make it more difficult for them to run their lives in the way they would like to. there are other proposals which i think are overreactions: the intention in the chemicals regulation, for example, is that one must control and regulate the use of dangerous chemicals, but this should not give rise to the disproportionate reaction we have seen from that regulation. many items of european legislation are over-intrusive and simply add to business costs. in the end, that will cost jobs for people in europe and very often mean that consumers end up getting a worse deal and a narrower range of choices. to make the lisbon agenda a reality we have to cut down on the red tape produced by the european union.
commission. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, but especially its rapporteur, mr vasco graça moura, for a farsighted report which emphasises the interface between school and culture. i would like to broaden the field a little and add to the school in the strict sense the school of life which is the family. this is where it all starts, to continue in school afterwards. i am very pleased to see, mr president, that as always, parliament not only supports what the commission is doing, but gives new ideas developed by the commission a reason for being and thus helps it to move forward. you are right, we cannot build europe on economics and finance alone. europe is built on men and women, and therefore on cultures. i agree with you that education systems should ensure that pupils at the end of secondary education have the knowledge and skills to prepare them for their role as citizens in europe. i said "should", because the reality is different and we know it. although pupils sometimes learn about their regional or national roots, they are still a long way from learning about the roots of others, their neighbours. in the debate which preceded this one, a debate on youth, i gave a figure. it was about the comenius programme, which links schools across the european union so that young people can learn about the cultures of neighbouring countries by participating in joint projects. well, even though two million students have participated in this program, that's only one percent of the population of our schools. so we're way off the mark. we're doing well, but we're doing too little. you have to know that. our education programmes are therefore trying to respond to the wish of the rapporteur and the committee on culture, and to the need underlying that wish, namely that our young people learn the reality in which they live. in this context, our cultural programmes are proving to be valuable tools for raising awareness among europeans of cultural diversity. but, again, it is not enough to reach all our citizens, or the vast majority of them. in the field of cinema, the media programme is also doing well in promoting cultural diversity through films. i would remind you of the first major pan-european cultural event, the cinédays, whose main aim was to teach young people about cultural diversity through cinema. again, this is good, but it is not enough. i would therefore like to say that i will need all your support to strengthen this aspect in the budgetary perspectives, in the financial perspectives, in the new programmes which i intend to submit to you shortly. we already do, but these are the famous drops on a hot stone. i am thinking here of the culture 2000 programme and the reseo action, which brings together the educational services of the major european opera houses with the same aim: to introduce children and young people to opera in the light of their cultural roots. i am thinking also of the clioh workshop project, which is a cooperation project between many european universities to produce teaching material on european history. yes, it exists, but it would still require a national will to make it a compulsory component of the history and cultural education curricula. i would also like to take this opportunity to announce that a contract has been launched for a major study to take stock of best practice in combining culture and education in the member states, the candidate countries and the third countries of the european economic area. the next parliament, in early 2005, will have the results of this study. so we're not just whining. we are moving forward with the knowledge that progress is very limited. mr rapporteur, you will understand that your report is timely and brings fresh water to our mill in the sense that it gives us ideas, supports our approach, points out the way forward, which will be very useful at a time when, as you know, education and culture are increasingly being considered as major elements in the construction of european citizenship. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteur for this important contribution to the future of our young citizens.
mr president, i have three minutes to make a speech about the importance of culture for our children and the future of the education systems across the european union. as a famous french historian might have commented, 'cauchemar': this is not a subject which should be treated lightly. commissioner reding is absolutely right that our own national governments should be encouraged to support the initiative of the rapporteur, supported by the commission, that when it comes to programmes and projects affecting education, they might consider a certain generosity of spirit and indeed financial generosity towards the programmes that we are commonly working to support. at the base of this misunderstanding is the notion that culture is purely national. of course a part of culture is national, but as the rapporteur points out, we have many identities; we have a local and a regional identity and indeed a european identity. it is not a historical accident that the rapporteur’s country and my country, england, share the same patron saint – st george. unhappily perhaps, this may have something to do with the fact that england and portugal, allies of old, founded this union in battle – a crusade – in the iberian peninsula. our children must of course learn about conflict and disagreement and their disastrous consequences, but they should also learn about what brings people together: commerce and trade, for example. between england and portugal there is the cork trade and indeed the port wine trade. what role do our schools have in sharing the upbringing of the young? as commissioner reding has pointed out, it is not only schools – and i speak as a former teacher of young children. i was always conscious, however, that the lasting impressions had been made way before school by families; by parents and grandparents. a minister of propaganda in a european dictatorship said, 'when i hear the word culture, i reach for my revolver'. that sounds as if it is meant to be a flippant comment, but we know what tragic consequences dictatorship brought to human lives in so many european countries. i would hope that the council of ministers, when it next discusses these matters to which the commission has drawn our attention, will have sufficient generosity of spirit to say that it will increase the education and culture budget – not simply in terms of finance, but in also terms of expertise, interest and political support – and that we will learn about our neighbours and about our common culture and heritage. egypt, crete, greece, rome and so on are of course part of england's experience, as indeed that of portugal, germany and everywhere else. but unless our children are given a sound basis of knowledge and understanding, then perhaps later on in life it will become harder for them to gain a successful career and sufficient financial resources. sound knowledge, however, may bring them a little wisdom in times of difficulty. i hope that wisdom may be shared in the council of ministers.
mr president, first of all, on behalf of the pse group i thank the rapporteur for her work and also the presidency for its cooperation. this has been very a useful exercise in achieving a second reading agreement on an important proposal, one which is tackling a persistent, organic and very long-standing problem. we believe that this report is now a very satisfactory one and we are very happy to vote for it. i am very pleased that a number of the outstanding issues have been resolved. the whole issue of the legal basis has now been resolved, and i am satisfied with that. on the issue of pops waste, we have come to a pragmatic realisation of the difficulties of completely abolishing waste containing pops and we think that the appropriate proposal here will meet with the inevitable residual problems that we find with pops being in waste and in other places. as regards some of the other issues, such as the problem of stockpiles, and technical and financial assistance, we have all come to reasonable agreements, and the rapporteur can be very proud that she has made a very positive step forward, which i do not think will take long to implement. the great thing about a second reading agreement is the willingness to take it forward into legislation quickly, which we are all waiting for. naming and shaming is something which may or may not be necessary in this proposal: it is already contained in the aarhus convention. this is something we need to revisit, but a point that the rapporteur was right to raise. the whole issue of compatibility with the reach directive is one that we must all have on our minds at all times. that new proposal on reach is going to be very important, but it must be comprehensive in its scope. we must find a way in which we can ensure, for example, that whilst pops are outside the reach proposal, chemicals that contain pops or might produce pops as a residue are inside the proposal. this would be a very important step forward. it will certainly tighten up any potential loophole that might be created during the time in which we are going to work on that very important proposal here in the autumn. the pse group will be voting for this proposal tomorrow. we thank the rapporteur for her work, we thank the commission for its proposal and cooperation, and finally the presidency for its willingness to find a second reading agreement.
mr president, russia is a vast country and its contribution -historically speaking – to european culture is immense. it remains a major military power and deserves recognition on the global centre stage. although economically it has shrunk, it is a vital source of gas and oil to the eu and has a common enemy in international islamist terrorism. i believe that mr putin will win the presidential election, and that we must recognise his democratic mandate to rebuild a strong russian state. i do not accept calls to expel russia from g8 because of its handling of the yukos affair. only two weeks ago the russian courts handed down a lenient sentence to one of its executives convicted of tax evasion: hardly the signs of judicial bias. i sympathise at the loss russia faces with the ending of the bilateral free trade agreements with the acceding eu states, but overall, the tariffs drop from 9% to 4% and russia cannot fail to extend the partnership and cooperation agreements to the baltic republics because of disputes over ethnic russian minority rights there. the kaliningrad question is settled now and work on visa-free or flexible travel to the eu should commence once a readmission agreement is struck. russia sees the eu as muscling in on its sphere of influence from georgia to ukraine, hence its attempts to reconstitute some of the binding elements of the former soviet union in the yalta agreement with ukraine, belarus – a country where russia could use its special influence to do more to encourage democracy – and kazakhstan. i also urge russia to withdraw its troops from transnistria, allow a peaceful reunification of moldova and consign the tiraspol gangster regime to the dustbins of history. lastly, i am concerned that there has been mass migration west of ethnic russians away from the far eastern territories, where russia is attempting now to forge close links with japan and korea on resource exploitation. these ethnic russians are being replaced by illegal chinese migrants, a situation which may cause tensions in the future in that vast, under-populated but resource-rich territory.
mr president, the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline is being built and funded -including by taxpayers' money – through the world bank, ebrd and european export credits, even though it does not meet international environmental and human rights standards. this report rightly demands the application of the eu environmental impact assessment directive. now it appears the coating on pipeline joints is poor and likely to result in major oil leakage and pollution. bp apparently knew this a year before securing the backing of international funders. the credit should be suspended while an independent enquiry is carried out into the safety of the pipeline for local people and the environment, and also into its financial viability, if at least eur 800 million needs to be spent relaying it. turkey's guarantees to the btc project regarding opt-outs from new environmental and social laws break its obligations under the eu accession partnership: they would be illegal if turkey were already in the eu. the commission has failed to act, so ngos are now taking the matter to the european court of justice. we must help turkey prepare to meet eu commitments, not break them.
mr president, as mr gahrton's report makes clear, this region is strategically key to us in the european union; its stability and prosperity impacts upon us all. i share the concerns expressed by others in the debate about the stalemate in nagorno-karabakh. the december talks which took place in scotland were a step forward; they were the first bilateral talks between the representatives of the two countries. we need to break the stalemate and use the osce network. this network is well placed to develop an approach that spans security and economic aspects and promotes regional cooperation and respect for human rights. widespread human rights violations are often the precursor to conflict. in azerbaijan we know that almost 1000 people have been arrested since last year's elections. 100 remain in custody, despite the fact that the government now claims there are none. in armenia there is alarm at the widespread problem of human trafficking. there are reports that many thousands of women and children have been sold into exploitation over recent years, in particular ending up in turkey and the united arab emirates. the european union must not ignore these human rights problems. we also have just expectations of turkey to act as a force of stability in the region, stimulate regional trade, enhance regional security cooperation and help revitalise the peace talks. in relation to the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline – due to pump a million barrels of oil a day from the caspian to the mediterranean – there are major concerns that the host government agreements do not take into account human rights considerations, and that the environmental and social impacts of the pipeline go against the equitable principles for sound projects. as our colleague has already made clear, as a matter of urgency we need immediate investigation into claims that 15 000 joints already laid contain a faulty coating that would lead to seepage. a recently leaked report contained allegations that one of the consortium's consultants showed that the consortium, including bp, knew about these problems before laying the pipes and even before signing the agreements with georgia. the funders, including the ebrd and the world bank, who were providing usd 125 million each, were not aware of these concerns. i call on the commission to ensure that there is a proper and exhaustive investigation into this problem.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the suppression of the report commissioned by the stoa panel on the risks of small plastic toys in confectionery products. i am informed that the official statistics used by the authors significantly underestimate the true number of incidents which made them conclude that these products only pose a low risk to small children. would you agree with me, mr president, that the report should now be published without delay? given the limits on the remit of the report, would you also press the commission to undertake a comprehensive and full survey on this subject and evaluate the true number of additional incidents being reported by doctors, parents and others?
- the speaker is looking into it. approval of the minutes of the previous meeting: see minutes.
- the next item on the agenda is the vote. report (a5-0082/2004) by mr daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1257/1999 on support for rural development by the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) (text adopted by parliament)
- we'll give one of the quaestors a ladder and have them fix it!
mr president, i would advise mrs banotti to follow the advice once given to me by the station master at crianlarich, when i pointed out to him that the two clocks, one on each platform, showed different times. he replied, 'what good would it be having two clocks if they both told the same time?' (laughter)
- we will continue the vote. report (a5-0044/2004) by mr bigliardo, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the public finances of emu - 2003 (com (2003) 283 - c5-0377/2003 - 2003/2151 (ini))
- the services will ensure that all language versions are consistent. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- the original undeniably says "community", so we'll stick with that. before the vote on recital f
the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs and security has already adopted a number of amendments to the common position. in particular, we cannot support paragraph 2, which seeks to give the eu a role best served within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. the united kingdom itself has reduced its nuclear stockpile by more than 70% since the end of the cold war and will continue to play a key role in international efforts to strengthen arms control and prevent the proliferation of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
- explanations of vote are closed - texts of votes - communication of the council's common positions - forwarding of texts adopted at this part-session - date and place of next part-session: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.45 p.m.)
mr president, the issue of low-level sonar and marine life is one that parliament has debated in the past. it has been discussed in the committee on petitions, all sorts of promises have been made and we are due to debate it again this week, but so far we have seen precious little action. therefore, our group felt it would be useful for parliament to take this opportunity to pass a resolution on this issue so that the council and commission are unable to forget what parliament has asked for in the past. we would therefore request that the debate be wound up with a resolution.
mr president, two weeks ago mr tannock asked you to rule on the status of the stoa report on inedibles in foodstuffs after the stoa panel voted not to publish it. can i remind you that the stoa articles of association state that there should not be votes on research projects from that committee which have been commissioned by this parliament. 'the results ... shall not be adopted, nor voted upon, nor be regarded as a stoa or parliamentary report.' what are we to tell our constituents who ask for research before reassurance, wherever it leads? what steps will you take to ensure that this report, whether it is troubling or mundane, becomes the property of us all and cannot be expunged by a powerful lobby?
mr president, you will perhaps be aware of the serious allegation on the front page of today's independent newspaper that the british government tried to muzzle its own top scientific adviser when he warned that global warming was a more serious threat than international terrorism. this follows from the us administration's failure earlier this year to continue policy drafting on the back of the arctic council's arctic climate impact assessment. this is a huge scientific report and the us response is entirely untenable. last friday i attended, on behalf of this parliament, a meeting of arctic parliamentarians. we listened in shock to the various scientific presentations and the us reaction. can we please try to ensure that both commission and council take seriously their various involvements at all levels with the arctic council and support open dialogue and action on this important global issue. it must not be hushed up, covered up, slowed down to please the us or anyone. if self-interest serves, then perhaps we might note that the latest scientific evidence forecasts that europe will get colder.
mr president, at dundrennan, in my constituency in the south-west of scotland, there is a firing range where depleted uranium shells are used for practice. i receive many letters of complaint and concern about this. one recently drew my attention to the fact that over the years nearly 29 tonnes of depleted uranium have been deposited in the waters off south-west scotland, therefore also affecting the irish sea. i have been asked to draw this to the attention of mrs wallström and shall certainly be writing to her about it too. i am glad she is here today and that the irish presidency is also present. it is a matter of serious concern that this dangerous substance is being fired in considerable quantities into waters which drain tidally into the irish sea, affecting at least two eu member states, in probable violation of the convention on the prevention of marine pollution by the dumping of wastes and other matter, 1972, as extended by recent protocols.
mr president, the dramatic fall from power of president aristide in haiti and the undemocratic and increasingly repressive measures by president chávez of venezuela to thwart the will of his people to hold a recall referendum represent a worrying trend in latin america, as aristide becomes the sixth democratically elected leader in that region to be ousted from power since 1999. we cannot be complacent about latin america and take the huge achievement of spreading democracy there for granted. the eu must work closely with the us to stabilise this process. mr aristide took refuge in africa, another continent sadly ravaged by civil wars, dictatorships and failed states. this house will welcome the announcement that the eu-inspired african union, still in its infancy since being founded in 2002, will shortly have its first pan-african parliament meeting in addis ababa and plans somewhat ambitiously to set up a security council with a standing army to prevent future conflicts on that continent. will you, mr president, send this parliament's greetings and best wishes?
madam president, i would like to make three remarks on this excellent report by my colleague. first, i hope the house will reject the amendments, tabled by some ppe-de colleagues, to delete all the references to reproductive health rights. not one ppe-de speaker has explained what the objection is to the idea of people having sexual and reproductive health rights. we hear much in this house about rights –– shareholder rights –– and i fail to see how they can object to the concept of people having rights in relation to their reproductive health. second, i hope the house will send a strong message to the united states that the mexico city policy is unacceptable and should be abandoned. it prevents real aid going to real people on the ground who need access to contraception, family planning and other health services. it is a damaging policy and i hope the european parliament will convey that message. finally, i very much support the amendments by mrs junker and mr bowis on the problem of vaginal fistula. many of us visited the addis ababa fistula hospital in ethiopia and met women who are affected by this very severe health problem, which has not been dealt with very often in parliament. it is a serious problem and i hope the european commission will look into how it can help to fund hospitals and outreach programmes for women affected by it. this is a problem which is totally preventable and by putting some money into it we could stop the unnecessary suffering of women. since today is international women's day, this would be a good message to send, as this is a problem we can do something about.
the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express the commission's satisfaction with the results achieved by parliament and the council in such a sensitive but also important area as the free movement of union citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr giacomo santini, in particular for his efforts to make it possible to adopt this legislative instrument during this parliamentary term. the commission considers that the common position has achieved the three objectives of its initial proposal: codification, citizenship and flexibility in residence conditions. first, the codification of the complex body of legislation that exists today. we have replaced nine directives and two regulations and have brought together a wealth of case law on freedom of movement and residence into a single legislative instrument, which has the advantage of providing clearer and more transparent rights for our citizens as well as for national administrations. secondly, the text of the common position is part of the legal and political framework created by citizenship of the european union, which allows a new approach to the exercise of citizens' rights and the creation of a single regime of free movement. this was achieved despite the fact that specific rules for workers and students were maintained in order to preserve the acquis. thirdly, the objective of making the conditions and formalities for exercising the right of free movement more flexible, which in the commission's view has also been achieved by removing the obligation for union citizens to obtain a residence permit, which has been replaced by a simple registration with the local authority of residence; by introducing a right of permanent residence which is no longer subject to any condition after five years of continuous residence in the host member state; and finally, by better defining the status of family members and strengthening their rights, in particular with regard to family members who are not nationals of a member state. the commission considers that this text, which does not exactly correspond to all the objectives of its initial proposal, is nevertheless a crucial step in the development of a sound concept of citizenship. i am sure that the new provisions of the directive will have a considerable positive impact on the lives of millions of citizens of the union who are currently living in another country of the european union and of many other citizens who will in future use the right of free movement. i therefore thank parliament and the rapporteur for the support they will certainly give to the adoption of the common position without amendments and i hope that this support will be a positive signal to the citizens, making it clear that if the union has made important progress in the field of security and justice over the last four years, this directive can do the same for the greatest value of freedom of european citizens.
madam president, i welcome this report and want to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr santini, because he has worked very hard on it. it has been a lengthy process and he has made a tremendous amount of progress. that we have arrived at this point does great credit to him and everybody else who has worked on this dossier. he said it is a question of simplifying formalities. that in itself is something of a simplification, because it is a lot more than that and, as the commissioner himself just said, it brings together a very complex network of existing measures. it is very important that what we are doing here is seen and publicised. over the years the eu has been very good at creating free markets for goods and capital. we are now moving in the direction of creating a free market for people so that they can move around with their families and partners. the remarks by mr oostlander give cause for some alarm, because if we go down the avenue of saying that there must be a clear concept of what a family is then we are undermining the whole process. mr oostlander spoke of the official registration of partnerships with the government. i think mr santini would agree that is a difficult and contentious area and one which, if reopened, will negate much of the valuable work that has been done. this common position may not be ideal. there are areas where we on this side of the house would have liked more progress, be this the three-to-six-month timescale, the prevention of expulsions or the definition of humanitarian reasons, etc. there are aspects that are not perfect. however, if it is an improvement on what we have at the moment then we should support it. it is indeed an improvement, we will be voting for it and i commend it to the house.
madam president, i too would like to extend my thanks to the rapporteur for what was an extremely difficult job. if we had more time we might have been willing to have a bigger fight with the council over some of the amendments. while it is true that this is a step forward in terms of codification and gives greater clarity to citizens, the approach seems somewhat begrudging: the common position seems to grant a right with one hand, only to add an enormous set of qualifications to that right with the other. in a sense, many of those rights become nationalised rather than considered from a community perspective. previous speakers have been right about the climate in which this debate has taken place. some see it as a way of shutting down the possibilities of free movement unless people are seen not to be a 'burden on the state', in the language of the 1930s. part of the issue is that people are seen primarily as economic individuals rather than as citizens who have the right to free movement. there are still problems for people who are in marriages or partnerships with non-eu nationals. i am well aware that even people working within the institutions will continue to face certain problems because of such relationships. people have spoken about the issue of partnerships. it was interesting to listen to the earlier debate this evening, in the context of international women's day, during which time after time speakers talked about the fact that there is no single definition of a family, that things are changing and moving on. the social security systems of member states certainly recognise different sorts of stable relationships – stable units. but we still face problems. i can foresee certain equality of treatment issues coming before the european court of justice. mr evans raised the issue of expulsions. for us this too is problematic. it calls into question what is meant by 'permanent residence', when it can be taken away from someone. others have mentioned that this might be a step forward, but it still does not take us to where we want to be. my group can accept the common position. we welcome certain amendments put forward by other groups. but this is certainly is not the end of the fight in terms of free movement for european citizens and their partners.
the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr arie oostlander, on the work he has done, which i think has come to a positive conclusion today. the commission proposal for a framework decision is part of a global strategy to combat drugs, based on a balanced approach between measures to reduce demand and supply and action against illicit trafficking. the tampere european council conclusions indicated the need to adopt at european level complementary legislative provisions against drug trafficking. the european union's action plan on drugs 2000-04 specifically requested the commission to propose measures aimed at establishing minimum rules on the constituent elements of the offence and on the penalties applicable to illicit drug trafficking. i think it is important that the european union, by adopting this proposal for a council framework decision, clearly demonstrates its will to combat drug trafficking, which is a threat to the health, safety and quality of life of its citizens. i hope that the irish presidency will adopt this text which is being discussed in parliament today, so that during this parliamentary term it will be possible to complete the legislative procedure on this framework decision.
madam president, as the rapporteur alluded, this report has had something of a troubled life: it has been rather problematic and been back and forth to the council. it is very important. everyone recognises the significance of the eu member states working together to combat the trade in drugs and to counter the damage done to lives, people and whole communities by the work and the trade of the traffickers. however, it is a very complex area. it is very important that we recognise regional differences. what works in one country in the eu may not work in another. what is appropriate in one european city may be totally inappropriate for another city in another country, because there are so many different attitudes, reactions and ways of life. as the rapporteur said, the member states will not be obliged to change their internal laws. we are looking at the harmonisation of criminal provisions. the definitions of what amounts are involved and how serious these issues are will be very difficult and will doubtless be debated in the future. however, tonight we should recognise that this report – however difficult it has been – is just one piece in a very complex jigsaw in terms of countering drug trafficking and how we deal with those responsible in the future. i welcome this report and hope that it is used to move forward. however flawed it may be, we should welcome the progress we are making and continue the work in this area.
madam president, i wish to thank mr dimitrakopoulos for his work on this report and for the scheme he has brought forward. however, my group and i will be voting against the report if amendments nos 6 and 7 are not adopted. we think they are important. the quality of a democracy is measured by its respect for its minorities. it is very important to note that the d'hondt proportionality, which governs the composition of our bureau, does not, and cannot, guarantee that all political positions represented in europe – far less represented in this house – will take part in the decision-making. this is all the more objectionable when the rule is that parties seeking funding need only be heard on some issues rather than on all issues that come before the bureau. these are points i take very seriously. it is also important that in discussing the funding of political parties it is necessary that all voices should take part, even though we accept that the d'hondt proportionality means that only some of the parties should be participants as voters on the bureau. i hope these amendments will be accepted, because if they are not we will certainly vote against the report. as i have said, politics is also about the representation of minorities. i slightly disagreed with what mr dimitrakopoulos just said about political parties being institutions, which build in with parliaments and commissions, etc. above all, in the political tradition to which i belong, political parties are voluntary associations of like-minded citizens. all the better that they should now become voluntary associations of like-minded citizens collaborating right across this great continent. however, voluntary associations are not the same as institutions, even though the maintenance of satisfactory democratic politics requires, in contemporary circumstances, that there be some public support for political parties. i speak in this house for the european free alliance, for the parties representing minority nations within member states – regions, as they are sometimes called: not very accurately, in my judgment. the increase in size of the union, with the welcome arrival of many small states, makes it ever harder for a party like the european free alliance, which has been in existence for many years, to satisfy threshold requirements of the kind that are now being set. every time we come to this house it appears that the hurdles are set yet higher in favour of the large political groupings, while neglecting the fair and legitimate interests of minorities. therefore i call upon the house to accept this report only if at least amendments nos 6 and 7 are adopted.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. the legal base for the principle involved has been in the treaties since the treaty of maastricht, signed by all our member states, ratified by all national parliaments. we have had the detail, permitting the adoption of a statute for european political parties since the treaty of amsterdam, signed by every member state, ratified by every national parliament. with the treaty of nice, signed by every member state, ratified by every national parliament, we permitted decisions by qualified-majority voting. last year, the legislation finally came through on that basis, in accordance with the will of all our member states and of all our national parliaments. this, then, is the final step in the edifice: the implementing measures internal to this house to enable us to apply the legislation that was adopted last year – legislation founded on a very broad consensus, as i have just indicated. i am therefore sad to see that there are some members on the far right of this house, and a few british conservatives – going against the view of the group that they profess to belong to –– who are challenging the legislation in the court of justice. their comments are sometimes surprising; they are objecting for instance to the fact that funding can be cut off for parties that do not respect the principles on which the european union is founded, namely –– and this is laid down in the legislation –– the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. it would be interesting to hear what principles they think the european union should be founded on, if they object to this basic set of principles. they are claiming, wrongly, that this would outlaw financing of political parties that are opposed to the european union. that is not the case. it is only parties that fail to respect our fundamental values that would be in trouble. unlike sir neil maccormick, i think it is right that the task of implementation should be given to the bureau, because the bureau is elected by the house as a whole. it does not represent parties, unlike the conference of presidents, whose members represent groups. group leaders should not be the ones deciding this matter. it is right that it should be the bureau: its members are elected by the house as a whole, it deals with the detailed administrative and political decisions and hears members of the parties concerned when there is a controversial decision to be taken. i welcome this proposal. i think it is a step forward, based on a broad consensus, which now has to be implemented. it will not lead to increased spending by the union; it will provide a more transparent procedure for the sort of spending that already takes place via the political groups. it should be generally welcomed.
madam president, i am sure that mr corbett did not intend to misrepresent my position, but he accidentally did. i strongly agree that the bureau should decide it; but when the bureau sits to decide these matters, it should have among it representatives of other parties. that is what i said and i think that is correct.
madam president, i am very pleased to say that all three ukip meps have joined together with 20 other members of this house. we come from five different political groups and from the non-attached members, and yes, we are fighting this case at the court of justice in luxembourg. there are several reasons for doing so, but the key reason is one of simple principle: i do not think there is any evidence that suggests that the voters in my country or in any other country are happy for their money directly to finance political parties at a european level. certainly the feedback i get in the uk tells me that the perception is that far too much money is already being spent on political projects, both at home and most certainly – of all places – here in strasbourg. i have also felt, ever since nice and article 191, that this idea that you qualify if you conform to the democratic principles of the union is potentially a dangerous one. what mr corbett says about the principles of the union may sound fine, but we are seeing shifts and changes in the law. perhaps, in three or four years' time, criticism of the union itself may mean that you no longer conform to the democratic principles of the union and therefore you are not just denied funding, but possibly even banned. the motivation is clear: it is to create a european demos which at the moment simply does not exist. i have some difficulty with the issue of the rule of law. it seems to me that, post-constitution, some in this place – and i am one of them – will not recognise that new rule of law because we will only be able to leave the eu on the terms of the eu. i do not believe it would be a legitimate act for a british government to sign us up to the constitution on behalf of our people on these terms, and in those circumstances i should be perfectly happy not to qualify for this funding.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i am speaking on behalf of mrs doyle, who is unable to be here this morning. we welcome the feed and food controls in order to ensure healthy animals and good meat for people throughout europe. however, we must give the industry time to develop a uniform approach across europe. i would like commissioner byrne to explain in more detail how we are going to enforce the same kind of controls on feed imported into the european union. it is very important that the same stringent controls are applied not only to our feed in europe but also to imported feed. animal welfare is also extremely important. mrs paulsen mentioned labelling. we have to ensure that consumers can tell from the labelling which products have met those high animal welfare standards in europe. consumers should also be able to see from the labelling which products have not met those high standards. the cost of inspection within the eu and fees charged to each feed company have to be looked at, because if one country is charging significantly more for inspections than another, it causes distortions throughout the single market. in broad terms, we must welcome these controls, but we have to be careful that we do not over-regulate.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs paulsen for all the work she has done to come to this complex compromise. whilst welcoming the animal welfare aspect of this proposal, i agree with mrs klaß that maybe we are rushing a little and we need time to look at every aspect of this rather complex deal. i am also worried that once again we may be coming up against the law of unintended consequences. you may recall that when the original slaughterhouse regulations came forward, the uk government got hold of them and goldplated them. this resulted in very high costs for some small slaughterhouses which, faced with those costs, closed. that then resulted in animals having to travel very large distances to slaughterhouses. as regards charges, in the case of this particular proposal, whilst it is true that different charges being levied in different countries is a distortion of the free market, common charges would not reflect the differences in cost of inspections in, for example, lithuania as opposed to germany. we now seem to have a balance where the cost will reflect the actual cost of those inspections, but it is possible that there will be loopholes, particularly in the way that some countries define 'small operators'. yes, i support exemptions for small operators, but i can see how some countries that want to subsidise production in certain remote areas would use that definition. secondly, on the issue of 'naming and shaming', nobody could be against freedom of information – we are all in favour of transparency and openness – and not to be in favour of it would be to support secrecy. we need to be careful, for example, to look at the situation in the uk, where if you are prosecuted you appear in the paper, but if minor infringements are discovered, such as a cracked tile in a slaughterhouse or a piece of mouse dirt in a restaurant, this does not appear on the front page of the local newspaper. in conclusion, whilst i appreciate the good intentions, we need to look at this more carefully to make sure that we do not once again come up against the law of unintended consequences.
mr president, we are in the presence of the old hands today – that group of members who have tried to deal with the questions of food safety and hygiene in cooperation with the commissioner throughout this parliamentary term. i want to pay personal tribute to mrs paulsen, who has brought through a number of complex, difficult measures of this kind. mr goodwill said that these measures have unintended consequences. i would remind him of the principle of 'unright time', according to which people always say that the time is not right for doing something. well, it is high time to be doing what we are doing in this area. the institutions have come together. there have been significant changes in the proposals for sanctions, financing, transparency and import controls. that, with the input of the council, has made this a good proposal, and a very good one for mrs paulsen to end on, because i know this may be her last report in parliament. she deserves all our thanks. the main issues that have been raised and which i wish to touch on are, first, how the balance of fees is being struck in a way that is fair to small operators, as mr goodwill said, but nevertheless does not allow exploitation and evasion of the rules by some. second, how far we can specifically assist developing countries in meeting eu standards. how are these standards going to be applied and what assistance are we able to offer? most of all, how can we guarantee the system of prior notification for high-risk products at ports that have the necessary facilities to deal with them? there is a big question mark concerning these ports of entry and recent experience shows that we have to deal with this issue. finally, i am particularly glad that we have reached some agreement on the issue of sanctions. sanctions as originally proposed were unwise and would not have worked. i am pleased to say that the route we are now taking, which has been agreed by most of the main players, is likely to lead to success.
mr president, we all know that counterfeiting and product piracy has reached epidemic proportions. the lack of harmonised enforcement rules means that counterfeiting is a low-risk business where for a low investment counterfeiting pirates are guaranteed enormous profits. the uk's anti-counterfeiting group has estimated that as many as 4 000 people lose their jobs as a result of this trade and that the gbp 1.75 billion lost in vat alone could build four new hospitals a year. clothing and footwear companies suffer the greatest losses and consumers are the victims. their health and safety is put at risk with fake medicines, foodstuffs, toys coated in toxic lead, flammable children's clothing and fake alcohol containing high levels of methanol which has led not only to people being hospitalised but also, in one case in scotland, to the death of a woman. in my own region, north-west england, trading standards intellectual property groups' seizures of counterfeited pirate goods is on the increase. here is one example: this is a manchester united football shirt, coveted by many youngsters. it is a fake, but was sold to consumers on the high street at full price. far from a bargain. this is a packet of viagra, now available over the internet. 50 000 such packets were seized at a house in oldham. they are imported from thailand and distributed by a vast network of counterfeiters across the region. there is also a more sinister side to this counterfeiting and piracy. the organised crime task force in northern ireland has reported that nearly half of all organised crime groups are involved in ip crime. two thirds of these groups have links to paramilitary organisations, so the draft law we are voting on today should be seen in context. it is not as ambitious, radical or draconian as many opponents would like to portray. nor is it a panacea for rights holders. it is a first modest and cautious step in an eu-wide commitment to fight counterfeiting and piracy. i would like to congratulate the irish presidency for having agreed a text which is balanced and proportionate and whose actions are focused on tackling genuine and serious acts of infringement. bona fide consumers engaged in acts on a commercial scale have nothing to fear from this new eu law, as consumers acting in good faith are excluded from its scope. a further safeguard is that commercial scale is defined as acts resulting in commercial and financial gain. moreover, action can only follow, as a result of a justified and proportionate request by the claimant, on the authority of a competent judge or court and only for intentional infringements on a commercial scale. contrary to the hysteria and misrepresentation spread by certain sections of the eu press, there is no question of dawn raids on teenagers in their homes. the law has no criminal provisions. it is restricted to civil and administrative remedies. there are no double damages. the directive reinforces judicial discretion and ensures that remedies are fair, equitable, proportionate and justified. this is an enforcement directive and one that cannot write ip law. nor can it rewrite it or change e-commerce law, in particular the responsibility of isps as defined in articles 12 to 15 of the e-commerce directive. it cannot undermine the right to private copying as provided for in the copyright directive, and in fact reinforces that right and protects the right of privacy. the actions taken must guarantee compliance with data protection laws. article 23 provides for an assessment of the impact of the directive and parliament will take that seriously. the intention is to show that it is applied in a balanced and proportionate way and it should be stressed that the directive must not be used to abuse the right of legitimate competitors to enter the market place, in particular that for generic medicines. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her willingness to compromise, and the irish presidency for its determination in forcing all parties to come to agreement. we must today take the bold step of voting this law onto the statute book. we must send a signal to counterfeiters and pirates that we are serious about closing the enforcement loopholes that they exploit. we must give judges and courts in the enlarged eu the option of a range of enforcement tools. it is time for the eu to get tough on counterfeiting and piracy. it is time we stopped allowing counterfeiters a free ride at the expense of consumers, legitimate businesses, eu jobs and the eu's competitiveness.
mr president, representing, as i do, a constituency which is associated with such products as scotch whisky, highland shortbread and borders knitwear, i am fully aware of and sensitive to the points many have made about the evils of counterfeiting and piracy, which extend much more widely than just to products of the kind i have mentioned. i, therefore, strongly support the idea of introducing a directive of this kind. however, i do not agree entirely with mr byrne when he claims that a balance has been struck. that is not what we hear from the generic medicines association, which is very fearful that extension of this set of remedies to patent law will damage its interests and thus the interests of the health services of europe and beyond. a balance has not been struck. patents must be excluded, and the point about the commercial scale must be extended to the whole of the directive, not just to some parts of it. finally, i say with great personal sympathy for mrs fourtou that this case shows up a gap in our rules about declaration of interests. the issue of familial interests needs to be included. i say that without any personal discourtesy.
mr president, i wish to support my colleagues who have taken a very broad-ranging view of this important proposal. this is not specifically about the digital world. it is about the future of the european economy and about the ability of any manufacturer who has intellectual property rights, whether protected by patent, copyright or registered design, or indeed by any other form of ownership, over a creative work or design that they have genuinely originated, to be able to protect and sell their products in a legitimate way, reap the profits and create jobs within the european union. we are talking about the procedure and timescale because we all know that as from the enlargement of the european union on 1 may there will be major concerns about the inability of intellectual property owners to enforce their rights across the enlarged european union. many of my colleagues have given graphic examples of the problems associated with the counterfeiting on a large scale of physical goods that are being shipped into the european union and essentially sold illegally, thereby depriving people of their legitimate livelihoods. let us put matters into perspective, since this is the nub of the issue and is why we have supported mrs fourtou in her work with the council aimed at reaching a genuinely balanced compromise that will be in place on 1 may, thereby ensuring we do not have to wait another six to nine months to deal with this problem. we are in the real world now, and this is not some theoretical piece of legislation but something that will actually protect jobs in our constituencies. as we move towards a world in which more and more goods are coming into the european union from countries, such as china, that are new members of the world trade organisation and where intellectual property enforcement is at best very weak, we have to be able to protect ourselves in a legitimate and balanced way. that is what is at stake, and those of you who are contemplating amending this proposal with the result that it is not in place on 1 may will have to answer to manufacturers in your constituency when a container load of counterfeit goods from china arrives through an accession country on their doorstep in june. you will have to answer for the impact this will have on local jobs and local manufacturers.
mr president, i am here today speaking on behalf of all my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, in particular my colleague, mr doorn, who has been the shadow rapporteur for the three successive reports that our hardworking rapporteur, mr medina ortega, has produced. in a way this is the end of the first phase of our cycle of work and, as the commissioner said, we are now moving on to looking at further details of how to make the interinstitutional agreement work effectively. it is perhaps in that context we have the opportunity to make one or two remarks, rather than the specific points contained in this relatively short report. we have not really had enough debate in this chamber about the whole issue of our role in better lawmaking or improving and simplifying the regulatory climate, as the commission reminded us. i would like to reflect on what my colleague, mr medina ortega, said on the way in which we adopt decisions and the way in which regulation is developed and promoted within the european institutions. i agree with him that our citizens are genuinely concerned by the process. that is why they want us to do the job better and that is why those who are directly implicated in the process – whether consumers, citizens, or businesses, large and small – want to feel that they have been consulted and they have had their say at the right stage in the process. one of the crucial elements of doing the job better is improved development of our legislative strategies and early consultation in the process. one of the most important features of the commission's action plan is that it is essentially a two-step process. before we move into the detail of the extended impact assessment there is also a stage for considering the whole strategy of the legislation, its objectives, a clear definition of those objectives, and the tools by which those objectives would be achieved. this might possibly be regulation, but there is no reason at that stage why some form of self- or co-regulation should not be considered as a proper option. i know that my colleague, mr medina ortega, is concerned about the way that self- and co-regulation develops, but i would argue that, if we consider that as a genuine alternative at the beginning of the process and see how it is integrated and that safeguards are built in and check it against the alternative of heavyweight and intrusive legislation, this can only be to the benefit of simplifying and improving the regulatory climate. after all, we are looking for effective and efficient legislation. we are looking at outcomes. that is what we have just been discussing in connection with enforcement because the problem is that, however much we legislate at european level, if we cannot have consistent enforcement, the cost of the legislation falls on people who already have the systems in place and are doing the job. it does not squeeze out those who are breaking the law. this works to the disadvantage of consumers – an issue that i know is at the core of your remit, mr byrne. we should support this report, but this is only just the beginning of the process of working together with all the institutions to deliver what our citizens want, which is effective and efficient regulation or alternatives to regulation.
mr president, it is clear that if eu law is to be credible it should be enforced properly. under the geneva conventions the occupied territories are not part of israel and, therefore, products from the settlements cannot be considered covered by this agreement. if the commission is going to come forward with new plans – as it should – then it should do so before parliament rises in june to give us time to scrutinise them properly. however, i agree with those who say that it is time to look at wider measures to do with suspending this ec-israel association agreement, because that agreement contains an important human rights clause that states that if there are human rights abuses on either side of the agreement, then that agreement should be suspended. the eu prides itself on inserting these human rights clauses into trade agreements. however, if they are there we have to act on them – they have to be credible. therefore it is time to suspend this agreement, because of not only the human rights abuses associated with the settlements but also those associated with the new apartheid wall, which has nothing to do with security and everything to do with an illegal land grab. it is destroying lives and livelihoods. if the eu does not suspend this agreement, it is guilty not only of an injustice to the palestinian people but also of undermining its own laws and legislation.
rapporteur. – mr president, scarcely less important than passing wise laws is seeing that they are actually implemented and it is, therefore, encouraging to read the commission's report, which my report addresses. however, as my report suggests, there is a real problem about the non-compliance with community law among big states. the worst example – which is cited in the explanatory statement – concerns the treatment by the italian state of a group of university lecturers, who, after 14 years, have still not had their rights enforced, despite two resolutions by this house. i have just received information that, despite the european commission's decision to ask the european court of justice to impose fines of eur 309 750 a day, the italian parliament has just passed legislation which enhances the illegal discrimination against these citizens. i find this outrageous. i hope the house will support my report. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i just want to reassure the house that this is largely a tidying-up exercise. (laughter)however, it will, at the same time, provide us with a new ordering for our rules of procedure; it will plug a few gaps and deal with a few technicalities that have been spotted and it will allow the newly enlarged parliament to have a new set of rules that has been adapted for enlargement, not least pursuant to rule 180(8).
mr president, the only observation is that if you postpone this vote today, you will run into the problem that my committee will be producing an avalanche of reports in the future, so it might be as well to deal with it now.
mr president, i wish to raise a point of order touched on in the debate this morning. it concerns declarations of interest in this house where an interest is a familial one rather than a direct personal one. this has been the subject of various newspaper articles, including a leader in the london times – which at least used to be a serious newspaper. mrs fourtou has behaved with extreme honour and goodwill throughout, but has been put in the invidious position of bringing forward a report and then being accused of not having declared an interest. we must have clarity as to whether and when familial interests have to be declared. (applause)
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty. i welcome the council's support for the programme and the acceptance of some of parliament's amendments to improve it (including an increase in the budget). i support the text of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and am sure that parliament will accept a balanced report which will ensure that the new member states can take full advantage of the measures and that their specific needs are taken into account.
mr president, i said earlier that this was largely a tidying-up exercise, but drew attention to the fact that rule 180(8) would now apply to all rules of procedure. this means that in the new rules to be published in time for the new parliament – indeed, presumably in time for the enlarged parliament in may – the figures in our rules will automatically be adjusted to suit the expanded size of parliament. those figures have to be adjusted to be the same proportion for the enlarged parliament as they are for this parliament. for instance, the figure of 32 members needed to table a motion or an amendment will rise proportionately. through what we have voted, this will also apply to rule 29 in its new version, which lays down the minimum size for constituting a political group in parliament. the figure in the new version is '16 members from at least 5 countries'. that will have to be revised upwards to 19 members – or whatever the number is – from at least 5 countries. however, as we realised that this would affect existing groups in the house just for the may part-session, there is a provision that allows existing groups to continue as they are until the elections, irrespective of this rule change. this means that none of the existing groups need to fear being dissolved before the election campaign. they will subsequently have to look at their situation in the newly elected parliament after the elections, as will every group, on the basis of the verdict of the electorate.
mr president, i believe mrs frassoni made a comment about voting on amendment no 4. a number of votes were taken en bloc. if i am correct, i think the point she made was that temporary committees would no longer have the same status as they have had in the past: parliament would not be able to set up temporary committees. mr corbett, am i right on this point?
mr president, i can allay the fears of colleagues: mrs frassoni was mixing up committees of inquiry and temporary committees. i will take the matter up bilaterally with her.
in the light of the recent developments in the world, the commission has decided to propose a new approach to the problem of population and development. the report highlights some of the statistics which clearly show that more is needed. worldwide, one woman dies every minute from pregnancy-related causes, some 200,000 die during childbirth due to lack of access to or failure of contraceptive organisations, at least 75 million of the 175 million annual pregnancies are unintended, and rape and other forms of sexual violence are on the rise, including in europe. these factors, together with a number of other factors, clearly demonstrate the need for further action and support from developed countries to combat poverty and promote economic growth with a corresponding increase in educational opportunities, which are very limited in some countries, for women and young girls. on the basis of the latest figures, indicators of the objectives of the cairo conference show shocking differences between the richest and poorest countries and regions of the world. the governments of the eu can and must show the will to improve the situation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, the general secretary of the american national council of churches has recently branded the denial of human rights at guantanamo bay as a sin against god. i do not take a religious perspective, but it is clear that it is not only europeans who feel strongly that the situation at guantanamo bay offends against our sense of justice. one of the senior justices in the united kingdom, lord steyn, branded the proposed military tribunals at guantanamo bay as a stain on us justice and the term 'kangaroo court' springs to mind. the british court of appeal has branded the detention of prisoners there as a legal black hole. the bush administration has argued that the geneva conventions are obsolete when it comes to dealing with terrorists and has chosen to apply neither these conventional laws of war nor the criminal law in which human rights norms should apply, that is the international covenant on civil and political rights or the us constitution. it has tried to straddle both by inventing a new, residual category of 'unlawful combatant' in the potentially unlimited war on terror, which is transformed from a metaphorical to a literal term. however, that status is unknown in international law. sadly, the denial of the prisoners' right to access to normal civil courts and the protection of the us constitution has been backed by the us courts on the grounds that guantanamo bay – even though the us is in actual control of the base – is not sovereign us territory. but it is welcome that the supreme court has now said it would decide on whether the us courts have jurisdiction. i would end by saying that i regret the absence of the council in this debate since, as commissioner patten has pointed out, the commission does not have jurisdiction, and the failure of the council to adopt a common position and a strategy to implement the upholding of the rule of law in guantanamo bay is a sad omission.
mr president, september 11, the attacks on the twin towers in new york, opened up a new chapter in the concept of war – namely, an asymmetric, large-scale attack by a well-organised and well-resourced, fanatic, international, islamist grouping affiliated to al-qa'ida, with no respect for the traditional rules and conduct of war as we know them and very difficult to formally classify under the third and fourth geneva protocols of 1949. therefore, all the demands made by this resolution to treat the detainees either as innocent bystanders caught up in american crossfire in afghanistan or common-law criminals subject to due process are legally not sound, and not necessarily desirable either – particularly if we are to protect europe's security and people from further attacks. also, the state's first duty is always to protect its innocent citizens from future attack from any such terrorist groups. the us would not waste valuable public resources detaining those who pose no security risk. indeed, after exhaustive enquiries, many have been returned home, including three juveniles – one who in an interview to the british press testified to the humanity of his captors and was grateful for formal english-language instruction on the base. the rest – including the eu citizens involved – are undoubtedly dangerous or a source of ongoing useful intelligence and should either be tried for war crimes, if appropriate, at standards compatible with international norms or held in humane conditions as illegal combatants for the duration of the war, with red cross and consular access, until mr osama bin laden is captured and formally surrenders his terrorist network and their declared war on the west. i do not accept that habeas corpus applies in emergency situations like times of war or national emergencies, so its inclusion is totally inappropriate. no prisoners of war during the second world war were allowed to have a fair trial – everyone knows that they were detained for the duration of war. furthermore, historically, citizens of any country – and the uk in particular – who in times of war went abroad and fought against their own armed forces or their allies were potentially indictable for treason, historically a capital offence and even today a very serious offence. therefore, the liberal motion before us today will not be supported by me, as its primary purpose is to bash the united states of american in its global war on terrorism.
mr president, i shall not respond immediately to mr tannock, but will begin by stating dispassionately that the notion of human rights, including the right to a fair trial, is the highest priority for all the parliamentary groups. terrorism and terrorist groups have won when the rule of law is set aside. mr camre, the rule of law is not an enemy, but the basis of a civilised society. when you discard it, you discard your civilised rights. one has to look at the charges brought against these individuals. if charges had been made, then they would have the right and the opportunity to defend themselves, but no charges have been made. three of my constituents are amongst those about to be released. what of their families? what of their concerns? what of their human rights? i start, as i believe everyone in this house starts, from the notion that people are innocent until proven guilty. the two previous speakers would seem to accept the opposite. the calls made in this house are not anti-american. indeed, we have asked the united states to uphold the rights of the free world which are at the heart of its own constitution. here we come to the crux of the matter: the argument that somehow these people are outside us national jurisdiction. they are not, and it was on this basis that the supreme court petitioners called for the releases of detainees that we have seen recently. they should be subject either to us law or to the rule of international law: legal representation, a fair trial and the right of appeal. it is in exceptional circumstances that the unexceptional, normal and rational rule of law is most needed. mr camre, i cannot agree with you. you have denounced these people and even you will not give them a fair trial. we must never forget that 11 september altered the american psyche forever. hence the actions that have been taken. this house has therefore chosen a noble route: not to condemn, nor to cast out those who have been detained – perhaps in horrific circumstances – but to ask quite simply that the rule of national or international law be upheld and fully respected. i, the pse group, the eldr group and other groups will uphold those principles. it is a sad day when all the members of this house cannot do the same. (applause)
mr president, one of the interesting things in the discussion on guantanamo bay concerns language, not least the new definitions of war that we begin to hear, which have no legal basis in any international jurisdiction. mention has already been made of the uk releases today, and of course i welcome that development, but i am also interested in who is defending the interests of the remaining detainees, whose governments may not have a special relationship with the united states. i welcome this report because i think it is very important to keep the whole issue within the international arena. as others have said, we have seen a deliberately created legal limbo here, which has provided a green light for other regimes to act in similar ways now, not least china, yemen, uzbekistan, saudi arabia and other well-known democracies, with their policy of internment of so-called fundamentalists. we have seen the united kingdom derogate from articles of the european convention on human rights in order to legitimise the internment in belmarsh of uk residents. it is important to respect the rule of international humanitarian law, even when it is inconvenient for governments.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new obligations of the financial regulation adopted in 2002 are the basis of our debate today. this new financial regulation now provides a clear legal framework for the grants we award to a large number of leading european organisations in the fields of culture, youth and education. any financing decision must now be justified on a legal basis. i am of course glad that progress has been made, but i realise - as mrs pack said - that there are negative effects and i hope that in discussions with the budgetary departments of this house we will find solutions. the changes brought about led the commission to present proposals for a new legal basis in spring 2003. these proposals concerned the fields of culture, youth and education. they were designed to ensure a smooth transition from the old system to the new one, and we have endeavoured to ensure the necessary continuity, while being above reproach in terms of the sound management of public funds. today i am grateful to the european parliament - and particularly to mr rocard and his committee - for taking the urgency measure and for ensuring that the commission's proposals could be examined quickly. so far, it seems to me that the main issues have been resolved and i therefore welcome the fact that we are moving towards a compromise, which demonstrates the determination of the european institutions to find a solution as quickly as possible when necessary. since 1 january 2004, in the absence of a legal basis, we have been left in a legal vacuum vis-à-vis organisations whose know-how and creativity are well known, organisations which citizens need in order to be able to function in a truly european sense. the role of these bodies is irreplaceable: they help to make europe loveable and give it a soul, as members have so rightly said. so we all used common sense to find solutions that would allow us to put an end to the uncertainty. i believe that everything is now in place to close this file and i would remind you that the presidency has sent three letters to the chairman of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport informing him of the council's willingness to reach agreement at second reading on the basis of the common positions as amended. the commission's position on the amendments contained in the various recommendations is as follows. as regards the proposal in the field of education and training, the commission can give its consent to the three amendments voted on at second reading by the committee on culture, since they bring about important improvements in the implementation of the programme. the commission also approved the five amendments on culture, which aim to make the text compatible with the financial regulation and to take account of budgetary conciliation. as regards youth, the proposed amendment introducing a transitional clause in the legal base to extend the eligibility period to 1 january 2004 to take account of expenditure incurred during the vacatio legis period also has the commission's agreement. the commission therefore fully endorses parliament's amendments. there is no longer any ambiguity, as you can see, and i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs iivari, mrs pack and mrs prets, for the quality of their work and, above all, for the spirit in which they have done it. thanks to you, ladies, we will be able to continue our important work with european organisations that make the europe of citizenship a reality.
- mr president, commissioner, after briefly listening to commissioner reding, i have nothing to say, because i think this is a very important subject. we can be qualified as teachers, but what can we do without resources, without money, especially at european level where, from time to time, the council of ministers is hardly more generous towards european projects because, with subsidiarity, education normally remains a national matter. however, if i speak on my own behalf and not as an mep, if i speak as a former history professor, i recognise that while money is important for education, there is something more important. as viviane reding would say, education is also a matter of training and spirit. everyone here, including the audience, was once a child and a schoolboy, and each and every one of us remembers the good teachers. we forget the bad teachers and remember the good ones. what is a good teacher? he is someone who loves his subject, who also loves his students and, of course, their families. this report by the rapporteurs pack, prets and iivari is very important and i pay tribute to their work. but that's not the end of the story. the end of the story would be that the generations that come after us have the opportunity to achieve, perhaps, something that goes beyond what our regional and national systems can give. from our point of view as members of parliament, as members of an eu institution, there is a place for culture and education at european level. i hope that this report will be welcomed by the council of ministers and that teachers and pupils will have the opportunity to open their minds a little. culture and education are neither regional, national nor european, they are all three at once.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all three rapporteurs for their reports, which i fully support. in the ten years i have been in parliament i have had responsibility either as the budget rapporteur or the shadow budget rapporteur for the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, often working very closely with mrs iivari. i wish to concentrate mainly on the culture report. she and i are broadly in agreement on the principles. perhaps we would differ to a certain extent in that i have always thought the parliamentary procedure for supporting activities is very open and transparent. i also attended the conciliation meeting just before christmas, when we hammered out the new legal base. i want to pay tribute both to the commissioner and to the commission staff for their support, as also to the chairman of the committee on budgets, who was extremely supportive. let me just make three key points. spending on cultural activity is important. i totally agree with the commissioner: europe has to be, and is, about more than economics and trade. the activities of organisations such as the european youth orchestra, 'swinging europe', the european forum for the arts and heritage – i could carry on – all help people to understand not just culture but also the cultural dimension of europe and, through that, the european union itself. we all know that the culture 2000 programme is grossly under-funded. it is also restricted by its own terms, and many organisations that need help at a european level and have been turning to parliament will now be able to use this new legal base. we cannot expect the member states to fund cultural activities of a european dimension – they will concentrate on the national dimension. culture funding is too small – that has been said before. nearly 50% of our money goes on agriculture – i make it less than 0.5% on culture. but culture is an important wealth creator: 17% of uk gdp comes from the creative industries. finally, we have to ensure that organisations that receive funding support get the information in good time, so that money is spent efficiently as well as effectively.
mr president, i am especially glad that these programmes will guarantee the financial stability of organisations such as youth forum, jeunesse, the european bureau for lesser-used languages and mercator information and documentation centres amongst many others. youth forum and jeunesse fulfil an important role in empowering and engaging young people in civil society, which is so important. they also provide young people with an environment to learn democratic decision-making, intercultural understanding and self-motivated learning. likewise the european bureau for lesser-used languages and mercator have both played, and will continue to play, an important role in safeguarding and promoting minority languages in the european union. their presence and work is especially needed now that 10 new countries will join the union and further enhance the number of existing minority languages. there are 40 million minority-language speakers now. six million other people speaking minority languages will join. it is crucial that the speakers of these languages enjoy the same rights and possibilities that have been available to everyone else. i welcome also the measures to increase transparency in the decisions to allocate grants to organisations and also the user-friendliness of the grant application process which at the moment is far too cumbersome. nevertheless i regret that in the case of youth ngos the principle of degressivity remains in the common position, which will mean that the reduction of their funds from the third year onwards will make things rather difficult for them. guaranteeing a regular budget for these ngos would be the best way to support their activities and increase their effectiveness in future. i very much hope that these excellent reports will be endorsed by a substantial majority in parliament.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the european commission, to answer this question very directly, is prepared to investigate in depth the alleged abuse of a dominant position in fish production in the european union if there is evidence of abuse. we already adopted a prohibition decision in 1992 concerning a price cartel between norwegian, scottish and irish salmon farmers. we are also in regular contact with the norwegian authorities in the field of market surveillance of the markets concerned by the request. as i said, i am prepared to examine the information available in detail and, if necessary, to pursue the matter further.
i warmly thank commissioner fischler for that very direct answer. it is extremely important that this allegation of abuse of dominant position should be investigated. a particular concern is that the breeders of juvenile fish, or smolt, are mainly based in scotland and ireland and are dependent entirely on sales to the ongrowers who are in turn affected by the feed manufacturers. the feed manufacturers and the ongrowing concerns are heavily dominated by norwegian interests and that is where the abuse of dominant position within the market arises. one particular risk that it gives rise to is that a particular asset currently in the hands of eu-owned salmon breeders is the genetic data and genotyped brood stock, which is of fundamental importance, as i am sure the commissioner well realises. in conducting his further investigation, with which i will be very happy to cooperate as much as i can, will he take a particularly close and concerned look at that aspect of the situation?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i can only ask you to give us whatever information you have, and we are prepared to investigate each of these questions accordingly. otherwise, i can only agree with what you have said.
commissioner, i join mr maccormick in thanking you for your direct answer. he and i have been passing information week after week to you and your colleagues but have found there to be a rather roundabout relationship between you for aquaculture, mr monti for competition policy and mr lamy for trade, which makes life very difficult. can i ask the three of you to join forces and work in a joined-up way, in order to prosecute this particular problem with the utmost urgency? the life is being squeezed out of our constituents in scotland. (applause)
thank you for the reply, commissioner, which sounds encouraging. i am aware of what a terrible minefield this proposal is going to be. take the example of the arrest warrant, which all the member states have ratified but only eight have transposed into national law. it is going to be very difficult to get this proposal through, but you have the backing of our committee. two big obstacles lie ahead of you. there is a problem of mutual recognition versus standardisation. standardisation would be better, but mutual recognition is the easier approach. how are you going to achieve that and ensure it works when there is the european convention on human rights, and every smart lawyer will immediately say that he does not recognise somebody else's ability to pass judgement and is going to appeal to strasbourg? how are you going to make this work in practice? it is going to be very difficult and i look forward to receiving some reassurance from you.
commissioner, you will forgive me for finding the situation unsatisfactory, as i am sure you do too. we were assured, at the time the european arrest warrant was introduced, that effective common minimum standards would follow hot on its heels. we now discover that they are not going to. those of us who suggested building a european habeas corpus into the arrest warrant find ourselves reinforced in our belief that this would have been wise. can you concede, commissioner, as one who has been a doughty fighter in this regard that, if the new constitution were to come into force, the member states would in future find themselves subject to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union when executing european arrest warrants, and that this would be binding law because in implementing european arrest warrants they would be implementing european law?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in the commission's communication of 29 september last year we presented three possible options, one of which is based on a quota system. since a detailed impact assessment has shown that implementing the 'everything but arms' agreement through an orderly system of supply rights would lead to similar outcomes to the status quo scenarios, we preferred to classify the fixed quotas option as a variant of the status quo option. so all options remain open for discussion. but i would also like to remind you that the 'everything but arms' initiative, which is part of the ec's generalised system of preferences, envisages the complete liberalisation of sugar imports from the least developed countries by 2009. until then, trade in sugar would normally be conducted on the same basis as trade in other agricultural products. the reference by the least developed countries to quantitative flexibility and negotiated quantitative limits could raise questions of wto compatibility if it were understood as a kind of voluntary export restriction. as you can see from my remarks, we will certainly not lose sight of the situation of the least developed countries and we will take it very seriously when we consider the future of the sugar sector. on 3 march i had a debate with representatives, ministers from the ldcs. and these representatives have put forward a new initiative in relation to our scheme for duty-free preferential access for their sugar to the community market. we shall examine this proposal in depth, as we will all other contributions to our preparations for the reform of the common organization of the market in sugar. the initiative aims to extend the limited access over a longer period of time. in drawing up the proposals we will be presenting this summer, we will take due account of all the contributions received.
i am grateful for that answer, commissioner. in particular, i am glad that you have been listening to the representations of the least-developed countries and that all options remain on the table. i should like you to comment more specifically on their argument that the fall in price that is integral to two of the commission's three options would 'make the eba initiative meaningless for sugar. the commission seems to prefer maintaining free access for the ldcs into a market with a price that is too low for them to compete, over that of negotiating with the ldcs an orderly market that achieves a price that allows them to compete and create development'. commissioner, do you not see a parallel with that in the arguments from sugar beet growers in europe, not least in the uk, who also call for an orderly market with, as they say, european price levels that would allow both domestic and developing country industries to invest for a sustainable future? given that the arguments are coming from both developing countries and developed countries within europe, surely a higher sustained price with a managed reduction is the better course of action. could you comment on that specific point, commissioner?
commission. i want to make it absolutely clear that the commission, along with parliament and the council, ought to send a signal to citizens all over an enlarged europe that openness and transparency are what we are actively fighting for and that we want to implement them in such a way that citizens are provided with full information. the rules in question have also been agreed so that we have decision-making processes through which we can solve problems, and which allow us to deal with cases in a dignified way for both parties. the commission may disclose copies of the letters of formal notice and recent opinions when none of the exceptions to the regulations i mentioned apply – i.e. when the infringement procedure has been closed and there is no longer any likelihood that the investigation could be undermined. many of the details are exchanged between the commission and the member state, but there is a fear that if these were in the public domain they could be used or misused in such a way that would undermine the whole procedure. in general, i agree that we should strive for maximum transparency in these processes. it helps when member states and the commission are able to agree. the commission also tries, when opening an infringement case, to disclose or give the reasons why it has opened that case against a member state. we do not want to disclose all the details of a case, but rather to give the public an idea of what it is about.
i must admit i still fail to see how disclosure can really undermine the cases here, but my supplementary is about which member states actually continue to give out the information on such letters of formal notice and which do not. ireland used to have a more open policy than it has now. could you please clarify, commissioner, what the situation is at the moment as far as the other member states are concerned?
commission. the european community regulates hunting trophy imports through council regulation (ec) no 338/97 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein, and the associated commission regulation (ec) no 1808/2001, which sets out more detailed rules. the objective of these regulations is to protect species of wild fauna and flora and to guarantee their conservation by regulating trade therein. in line with this objective, they have strict criteria for accepting hunting trophy imports. to begin with, import permits are required for any species listed in annex a of the council regulation and these include all species listed on appendix 1 of cites - (convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora), such as leopard, cheetah and elephant, and a number of other popular trophy species such as brown bear, lynx and wolf. before granting these permits the authorities in the relevant member state must obtain scientific advice that the management of the trophy hunt in the country concerned is based on sound biological data, that harvest levels are sustainable and that illegal activities are under control. there is one further requirement to which i shall especially draw your attention. trophy hunting of these species must generate significant and tangible conservation benefits for the species and for the local people who share the area with or suffer as a result of the species concerned. trophy hunting programmes that meet this criterion can play a vital role in conserving rare species, especially in developing countries and in encouraging local communities to value them as a resource that needs protection from other more damaging uses. i am aware that in a number of countries, including namibia, south africa, botswana and tanzania, carefully managed trophy hunting provides a major contribution to their relatively successful conservation efforts. while many people find the concept of hunting trophies distasteful under any circumstances, the commission considers that a general ban on the import on any cites-listed species would not be in the best interest of species conservation and the sustainable use of resources. however, in cases where the criteria for accepting hunting trophies are not met, the commission has always taken, and will continue to take, the appropriate measures to suspend such trade.
i am alarmed to hear the commissioner's conclusions because it certainly does not seem that the trophy hunting to which i referred is being done with the aim of conservation at all. i logged on to a website this afternoon, which would have given me the opportunity to go to tanzania. it offers the 'discerning sportsman' the ultimate hunting experience: large buffalo, lion, water buck, very rare east african sitatunga, leopards, antelopes, etc. my information is that in the last six years british people have been abroad and shot at least 40 african elephants, 32 leopards, 18 polar bears, six hippos – i could go on. worldwide, this is something like over 3 800 african elephants, over 2 600 rare leopards and 9 000 bears. these are not being slaughtered in the interests of conservation, or with any reference to conversation in the areas. it is trophy hunting: people who go out and shoot big game and come home proudly but sickeningly with a trophy of the head of a rare animal. would the commissioner think again, and would she agree to meet me to go through some of these statistics, to see some of the evidence and to put in place a ban on the import of cites-listed animals into the european union?
commission. mr president, air pollution continues to be a serious problem in europe. an oral question tabled for this part-session, which i replied to before the dinner break, illustrates the point by quoting from the world health organization study on the number of cases of premature deaths or serious illness caused by air pollution. even though we have made considerable progress in reducing concentrations of some pollutants, such as sulphur dioxide or lead, other pollutants continue to pose a threat. that is why the commission is continuing to pursue a vigorous policy against air pollution. we have under way a large programme called clean air for europe to prepare for the thematic strategy on air pollution due to be adopted next year. this programme focuses especially on some of the most widespread problems, such as particulate matter and ground-level ozone. we are also looking at other types of pollution, which also have important consequences for human health. among these are the pollutants which are the subject of the proposed directive being discussed today, the heavy metals arsenic, cadmium and nickel, polyaromatic hydrocarbons and mercury. they are, in fact, the last in the list of pollutants mentioned in the air quality framework directive of 1996 as requiring specific action. three daughter directives have been adopted so far, pursuant to that directive, covering all the other pollutants on the list. the directive being discussed today thus forms the last in a series of legislation provided for under the framework directive. an important aspect of the proposed directive concerns monitoring. currently, we do not have enough information on how widespread these pollutants are and we urgently need more data. for the heavy metals we have decided not to propose any limits or target value, since the main problems occur in the immediate vicinity of certain industrial installations, and levels that can be easily achieved elsewhere would not be achievable in these areas without taking disproportionate measures, even leading to shutting down the installations. but that does not mean that nothing can, or will, be done to reduce the levels of pollution. these installations are covered by the ippc directive and best available techniques will therefore have to be applied to reduce emissions by 2007. by ensuring adequate monitoring of concentrations near these sources and making results available to the public, this directive will help to ensure that the operators of these installations take the necessary measures to keep emissions as low as possible. for polyaromatic hydrocarbons the problem is not limited to such a small number of sources, so we have proposed a target value obliging member states to take all necessary measures to reach the required level, as long as they do not entail excessive costs. i am aware that there is a wish to go further than we have in setting binding limit values for some of these pollutants and i fully sympathise with the desire to protect human health that this reflects. at the same time, it seems highly doubtful that there would be any real advantage in setting binding limit values that will simply be unachievable and would therefore need to be the subject of derogations or exemptions in the very places where the main problem occurs. from that point of view i welcome the decision to postpone the vote on this subject to allow for alternative possibilities to be explored. in any case, by ensuring a high level of monitoring in the worst affected areas and setting a target value for polyaromatic hydrocarbons where the sources are more widespread, the directive as proposed will make an important contribution to reducing this type of pollution, raising public awareness and making europe's air safer to breathe.
mr president, this report illustrates the need for parliament to put in place a systematic approach to impact assessment. in this instance, the rapporteur mr kronberger with, as he admits, slim support by two votes from the members of the committee, is proposing to change non-mandatory target values to mandatory limit values for arsenic, cadmium, nickel and benzopyrene. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy informally sought – and this was the first time it was carried out – a cost-benefit analysis. there is no mechanism yet within parliament for this. the trouble is that it is inevitably incomplete, given the time pressures within which we had to operate. it concludes, and mr kronberger has drawn comfort from this, that some of the proposed limit values are achievable – 'feasible' in his words. that is a technical assessment. when the study comes to look at the costs of reaching the target, as the commissioner said, things are not so rosy. in the study drawn up for parliament, the precise costs of reaching the limit values that mr kronberger wants are not analysed in any systematic way. the study itself says that, for arsenic, some plants might be able to comply but some could not and that 'a more detailed analysis of the reasons why compliance by the other plants will be impossible seems to be justified'. the rapporteur, faced with the impossible, prefers to ignore this stark verdict. in the case of the application of limit values to cadmium, the study again draws attention to the lack of detailed information on the impact of what mr kronberger proposes. in the case of limit values for nickel, the study notes that applying limit values on the kronberger lines would require investments beyond best available techniques. what mr kronberger now has to demonstrate is how far what the commission proposes constitutes a proven danger to human health, how this danger is inadequately dealt with through the provisions of the ippc directive and why therefore it is worth pursuing his idea for mandatory limit values irrespective of the cost. in my view, he has completely failed to demonstrate that and all we have is the bald observation in his explanatory statement that 'no limit value can be set below which these substances constitute no risk to human health'. there is no way in which he is capable of going in the direction of what the commission is proposing. if parliament is unwise enough, in a first reading compromise or in a second reading – which might be a long way ahead – to endorse what mr kronberger wants, then it will only have itself to blame if the council, or perhaps the commission, carries out the real, extensive cost-benefit analysis that mr kronberger does not have. arriving at a point where cost-benefit analyses are on our agenda is not a sign of obstructionism, it is a sign that parliament is at long last moving from seeing itself as a pressure group for the environment and evolving into a responsible part of the legislative process. but with the kronberger report as it is, we clearly have a long way to go. mr kronberger and the commissioner have mentioned the possibility of a first reading agreement. i cannot see how on earth there can be a first reading agreement between mr kronberger's approach and that which, i imagine, the council has endorsed. i would like to think we could have a first reading agreement, but somebody has got to move and i hope it is parliament.
mr president, mr kronberger already knows my opinion on this report as i have expressed it quite strongly in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. however, i should perhaps be more moderate in my views tonight. he may be quite passionate in his opinions but frankly they are misjudged. he might be quite earnest in the conclusions he arrives at but frankly they are erroneous. he must now face the reality that if he wants to regulate emissions of this kind from the industrial installations we are talking about, setting emission values just does not work. the impact on those installations of trying to impose such standards would be unbearable. nevertheless, i have one or two kind things to say about his report. like the curate's egg in english parlance, it is good in parts. if you look at mercury and arsenic, for example, there may be a case for trying to set emission values in this sector, but certainly not in others. take for example nickel. nickel is one of the most important elements used in the production of stainless steel. the most common type of stainless steel contains 18% of nickel, but it can contain up to 30%. the nonsense of this proposal is that it assumes the measures used to control gaseous emissions of nickel can be applied to the situation in steel plants where nickel is emitted as a fine dust during the production process. in reality, the vast amounts of dust in the production area contain only a very small amount of nickel and the emissions from steel plants are relatively small. to try nevertheless to reach emission values in such a situation would be impossible. again in the case of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, the kind of measure proposed by mr kronberger will inevitably lead to the closure or end of use of coal-fired power stations, to the end of coal burning being used, to a loss of jobs and, across the whole of europe, to an even greater reliance on imported gas and other supplies. however well-meaning, these proposals are unrealistic, ill-considered and would undermine europe's reputation for taking a responsible approach. i would urge him to think again.
mr president, last year, despite opposition from governments and farming organisations and a lukewarm response from this parliament, a fundamental reform was agreed for the common agricultural policy. this will eventually totally disconnect payments to farmers from production. we are now dealing with cotton, tobacco, hops, and olive oil which are all products with regional sensitivities. the commission proposals are something of a step backwards from the reforms of last year with the exception of hops. however, the daul and lavarra reports attempt to resist meaningful reform in cotton and tobacco and, to an extent, in olive oil. only in the amendments which set a minimum of 60% decoupling for olive oil does the committee move closer to the reform package of last year. i fully understand the difficulties in these sectors and respect the work of the rapporteurs but in the longer term the rural economies which are affected by decoupling are best helped by development measures which can be targeted more directly and effectively. this is the approach for different products which is being applied in parts of my own region. i wish the commission had been bolder in its original proposals, but i am prepared to support them. however, for the reasons given, i cannot support these two reports as they stand and my final vote will depend on which amendments are adopted.
mr president, mrs stihler is unwell and is unable to be attend. i hope you will forgive me for taking 30 seconds of her time. mr fischler said in his presentation that these reforms were based on the same principles as earlier reform. that is so, but they are considerably less ambitious in their scope, even in the commission's proposals. he also said that the aims were identical, in that one of the aims was sustainability. he presumably means economic, environmental and social sustainability, competitiveness and compatibility with the wto, since we must not look at agricultural issues in a vacuum. it is just one of the eu's policies and there are others – those concerned with world trade – that must influence our thinking, as must enlargement and its implications. we are talking about the poorest regions, in some cases, of some of the poorer countries in the eu. that is quite clear and presumably explains the less ambitious proposals. the budget may be neutral, but there are differential consequences for farm workers and farm owners, which is one of the problems the pse group has with these suggestions. as a whole, we are strong supporters of reform. we are perfectly well aware that the old regime is untenable for very much longer and that decoupling will come, and we are aware of wto obligations. however, we are also aware of the social consequences and have misgivings that the commission has not sufficiently borne those consequences in mind. more consideration should be given to the fate of workers who are working for employers in the farming industry. there can be no doubt that parliament's proposals will not help in the doha development round. they will – mistakenly, perhaps, but certainly – be seen as non-reform and as a move away from what is expected by the poorest countries in the world. that is absolutely clear and as a member of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, it is something i have to emphasise while supporting the overall pse position.
mr president, this spring council will be dominated by the economic reform agenda and rightly so. yet there is something a little strange in talking about the future of europe when the draft constitution fashioned to facilitate that future languishes in council. liberal democrats and reformers in this house welcome the intensive consultations undertaken by the presidency. signs from most national capitals suggest that it should not be beyond the wit of our member states to deliver a deal. president-in-office, we urge you not to give up on your efforts to break the deadlock at the igc and secure a constitution for europe before the elections to this house in june. i should also like to thank you, president-in-office, for going off-script in your remarks. your line that it is 'possible to find a consensus in the context of a process leading to a conclusion' is one of sir humphrey's finest. i am pleased to see that he is alive and well in justus lipsius. (laughter) however, your line that the key to it all is political will is exactly right. the potential problems of an eu of 25 are painfully clear. without institutional reform this union cannot function effectively. it is time to stop pretending that life will somehow go on if the igc fails. forget the infamous polish slogan 'nice or death'. for an enlarged europe, nice is death. i share the commission's concern about tinkering with the draft constitution. some of europe's leaders are playing poker with the union's future in the last chance saloon. it is time to show our cards: governments, people, parliamentarians alike. do we demand a stronger, more credible europe at home and abroad? do we insist on integration where it is needed? do we want the president of the commission to be europe's best and brightest, able to command support across party lines? liberal democrats and reformers are in no doubt about our answers to these questions: yes, yes and yes! i regret that the european left, which gave us the inspirational leadership of jacques delors, now seems to lack conviction about the future of our continent. mr poettering's platoon seems more concerned about making the next president of the commission their political plaything than about the content of his or her programme. it is alright, mr poettering, for wilfred martens to claim that the ppe-de is 'uncompromisingly pro-european': you look more like uncomfortably pro-european to me! do you speak in the name of all of your group, or just one part of it? the european council also has to debate europe's external relations. it should be recognised that without exception, europe speaks more strongly in the world when it speaks with a single voice. that is why, president-in-office, i make this appeal to you: last night, five of the nine british detainees at guantanamo bay were repatriated to the united kingdom. even as a british citizen, i see this less as a gain for britain than as a loss for europe. because if the council had pushed europe's case over bilateral bargains, we might have had a more united and principled stand. we should have insisted on securing the release of all europe's detainees from guantanamo bay. (applause) i challenge your presidency to stand up for our union's values by speaking for europe as a whole at the eu-us summit on the issue of the remaining guantanamo bay detainees. we have to pull together now as a continent or we will fall apart. the pro-european forces in government and this house have to make their case with conviction, because we need a new constitution, a new credibility and a new self-confidence, and we need them now. (applause)
mr president, i would like to make four proposals to help the igc reach a successful conclusion. firstly, as regards the qualified majority formula, we need to raise the number of states needed to form a majority, while at the same time raising the population threshold needed to form a blocking minority. that should please the smaller states and not frighten those larger states which are genuinely committed to making it simpler for the council to reach a decision. the sensible equation which seems to be commanding greater support is 55-55. secondly, the igc needs to drop from the constitution a specific number for the size of the commission, a college which needs to grow and shrink according to supply and demand like any national administration. we should also drop the principle of equal rotation. frankly, having a commission without a representative from france would be fairly implausible. mr giscard d'estaing himself concedes that the convention's formula for the commission was not the most glorious of our many achievements, and commissioner kinnock agrees. thirdly, the igc should be convened at summit level, preferably before 1 may, to enable a genuine political debate with a european dimension to be held. so far, unfortunately, this has simply not taken place. fourthly and finally, our leaders need to find the moral courage to shape europe politically. if they fail to do so they will be consigned to history as foolish cowards.
mr president, i want to express my admiration for what i thought was a stylish and rather teasing address from mr roche on whether there has really been considerable movement on the igc issues. we have been reading about the spanish and polish governments possibly shifting their positions, with similar reports about the german government. the uk press is now saying that mr blair and mr berlusconi are writing joint letters together – there's friendship for you! – and now we understand that mr blair is travelling to dublin tomorrow for talks with the taoiseach. as mr napoletano said earlier in the debate, it is all very frustrating and unclear for those of us who are outside. all this underlines the importance of restating the demand for democratic legitimacy, something which was conceded by vice-president kinnock in the course of his address. i see that as coming through the process of a referendum. mr barón crespo told us that 51% of uk citizens want this constitution. i might doubt that but, unlike his labour allies, i am very happy to have the matter tested in a referendum. i can tell you, mr president, that more than 80% of people in my country agree.
rapporteur. – mr president, over the past decade we have seen a massive transformation of bulgaria, hauling itself out of a communist past and now on track for accession to the european union by 2007. the turnaround is truly remarkable. my report is therefore very optimistic. i see no reason why accession negotiations should not be closed during the summer before the conclusion of the irish presidency and before the mandate of the present commission ends. this would be a very important signal to the people of bulgaria and a reminder that they are not forgotten at a time when ten other countries will have just acceded to the european union. this means that the commission and council must rapidly finalise the eu position on the four remaining chapters: competition, regional policy, agriculture and budget. the draft financial package proposed by the commission on 10 february – some eur 4.2 billion over three years – provides an excellent basis for the final phase of negotiations. indeed, measured as a percentage of per capita gdp, this package can be seen as among the most generous that has been offered to an accession country, although this needs to be kept in perspective as bulgarian per capita gdp is low. the financial package may require adaptation in the light of changes to the overall financial perspective and i am reassured by the commission's recognition that cooperation with parliament, as one arm of the union's budgetary authority, will therefore need to be intensified over the next three years. bulgaria's accession process has so far been characterised by commitment and good faith on all sides and a shared determination to meet the many deadlines involved. the macro-economic indicators have been very positive in bulgaria. we have seen gdp growing by almost 5%, the rate of inflation dropping significantly, a surge in foreign investment and a major cut in unemployment levels. it will take time for the effects of these improvements to be felt by large sections of the population, particularly in the regions outside of sofia, but we can expect the upswing to gather pace as accession approaches and confidence in bulgaria's political and economic transformation grows. confidence is a key factor. it is most important, therefore, that bulgaria's progress and accession should not in any way be linked to or held back by any other candidate country. as my report clearly states, bulgaria is part of the current inclusive and irreversible enlargement process that is based on the own merits principle. i was pleased to hear mr verheugen state in parliament last november, and i quote: 'the one country, bulgaria, should not wait for the other, romania. and we have also guaranteed this'. i would be grateful for the commissioner's confirmation of this position. the accession process for other candidate countries, or indeed the addition of new countries to the accession process, should not impact on the timetable for bulgaria and the assessment of its progress. but in spite of this progress, many specific problems still have to be overcome in bulgaria. these are very much in the hands of the bulgarian authorities, although we can help. to put this in context, we know that many of the countries acceding to the eu in may also still have many problems to overcome. but in bulgaria's case, i have highlighted in particular the roma question. i do not want to get this out of perspective. many other sections of bulgarian society face difficulties, but the roma question is important, not just for the stability and prosperity of bulgaria, but also because of its potential impact on other countries in the european union, not least my own, when bulgaria achieves full membership. the full and proper integration of the roma into mainstream society in bulgaria requires changes on both sides. the roma need understanding and massive resources deployed in order to provide them with the essentials of life, education and job opportunities, but equally they have to change their lifestyle. there has to be a willingness to integrate and to adopt family practices and other social attitudes that give confidence to the wider bulgarian population. it is troubling that a large proportion of children in care or in institutions in bulgaria come from the roma community. there is something fundamentally wrong with this and it needs to be addressed with real determination. many of the care homes and schools are in a bad state and my own constituents in chelmsford provide admirable support for one particular school at berkovitsa. as far as amendments to my report are concerned, i do not support either of the two amendments that have been tabled. the assertion that bulgaria is the only accession country that lacks implementation mechanisms in the field of gender equality is frankly not correct. the second amendment, regarding energy policy, has been adequately covered in the compromise language already in the text of my report. i do not think the amendments are necessary. in conclusion, i congratulate bulgaria and thank the commission and the council for all the support they have given to bulgaria's accession process. let us make sure that it remains on track for accession in 2007. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, this report represents a wide-ranging analysis of the problems facing romania in its development to meet the high standards we demand for joining the european union. the resolution clearly points out that much remains to be done in romania for political criteria to be adhered to in full. the functioning of parliament, the relationship with the executive and the judicial system and the overall functioning of the rule of law: all are questioned. this point involves many issues such as corruption, which is widespread in romania, involving administrative officials, judges, politicians and in its sum undermines the functioning application of the rule of law. this must be the reason why corruption in the area of international adoptions has continually been circumvented by special adoption commissions. the moratorium has been ignored and set aside, meaning that many children, even babies, identified as suitable for adoption by the government, signed off by the prime minister, have in reality been taken from suitable family settings by the authorities, against their will and disregarding the wishes of their foster families whose interest in adopting those same children was denied. i have written evidence of many of these cases and stand happy to show them to anyone who wishes to see them. in contrast, my resolution also deals with the achievements of romania in the economic field, where many structural reforms have been undertaken that we praise. but these must also and will need to be pursued most vigorously in the coming months and years. but we hope too that the romanian government will give greater prominence to the needs to the lower strata of society in romania. in many areas simple, civilisational assets such as running water and sewage disposal systems are missing. surely the preaccession process must also benefit the many millions of poverty stricken citizens. we in the european parliament want to help them not just to survive, but to thrive. only if the romanian government and its administration are willing to forego corruption in all its insidious forms can poverty ever be conquered in romania. honesty has not only a commercial value. honesty provides the essential bond of trust between the state and citizen upon which democracy relies. the report also points out the developments in the area of developing and implementing the acquis, where much still needs to be done to build up the administrative and judicial capacity not only to have laws on paper and in parliament, but to ensure that they are implemented in such a way that they can play a real and positive role in the lives of citizens. this report as it stands was passed with unanimity in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy with no abstentions. this exceptional consensus across all parties regarding the main thrust of the report has already had a positive impact in romania. the situation has changed, however. already there has been root and branch reform of government with many new ministerial positions and responsibilities. tomorrow i understand there will be a new children's law. i understand there is some hesitation and a little confusion among our socialist colleagues – due to the swiftness of the changes in the situation in romania – on how to vote. as the vote is now likely to be held tomorrow, i urge the pse group to have a new exchange of views on this so that i can fulfil my task as rapporteur and ensure that they have the fullest and most up-to-date information. after the vote, i will be calling upon the commission to report back to parliament on how the commissioner's team will now proceed. i believe that such a report must come back to this parliament before we rise for the european elections in may. i will also call upon the council to accept the reality of parliament's clear and unequivocal position. council cannot simply continue along the old line that all is well in romania and that entry in 2007 is the done deal that we have been told it is since rome last year. this is not so. in the united kingdom, the parliament of which i also had the honour to be a member, is omnipotent and omnicompetent. i have no doubt that other national parliaments of eu member states hold the same responsibilities. the european people have the final say. we all want romania to join the european union, but not at a price that is too high for the european citizens to pay. in conclusion, the european parliament is a true friend of romania. this strongly worded report has been compiled by members of the european parliament across the political divide, from all member states and with romania's best interests in our hearts. bucharest must act on the report's recommendations if romania is to succeed in membership of the european union. i hope and i believe that it will do just that. (applause)
mr president, i wish to begin by fully associating the socialist group with the remarks of commissioner verheugen in relation to cyprus; no doubt my colleague mr poos will say more about that later. i have always argued that this enlargement is going to make or break the european union. if we handle it well, it will greatly strengthen the union. a recent report by the economists ernst & young in the united kingdom showed the benefits the united kingdom would receive from enlargement. however, if it is handled badly, it will seriously damage the union. thus there is still a lot at stake in making sure that we get it right. that is why it is so crucial for the applicant countries to fully meet the standards required because, if they do not, we run the risk of having a backlash in public opinion not only in the 15 but also in the 10. we still need greater emphasis – as mr brok stated in the report – on implementation and enforcement. we must have proper transparency on state aid, competition policy and public procurement because, if enlargement is to work, the business community and trade unions have to be convinced that there will be fair play. we must not relax our drive against corruption. corruption undermines economic progress. the eu country defined by transparency international as being the least corrupt is finland. the eu country with the most successful economy is finland. the two things are closely related. the culture of the brown envelope passing between ministers and senior officials has no part to play in a modern, dynamic economy. however, the candidate countries also have to realise that by joining the european union they are committing themselves to the standards of the european union, such as democracy and human rights. that is why i was so horrified to see in lithuania that the leading daily newspaper respublika has been publishing crude anti-semitic and homophobic articles, the first of which, on 20 february, contained a cartoon on the front page which is straight out of the nazi propaganda of the 1930s. such sentiments have no place in the european union: racism and xenophobia are cancers that destroy our society. they have done so in the past and will do so again if we drop our guard. we completely condemn these articles. i regret the time it took for the lithuanian media and authorities to take action and to respond. i hope the council and the commission also condemn those articles. we must recognise the difficulties that some applicant countries have faced and that they have made enormous progress in a very short period of time. that is why we have always had a very balanced approach and recognised the efforts that the candidate countries have made. that is why i regret the tone of the original nicholson report on romania. we have always said that each country should be judged on its merits and has to meet the standards or we will vote not to admit them. we have never said the negotiations should be suspended in the middle of a process. we know that there are serious problems romania has to address. we know that past governments did not treat these negotiations seriously, but the current government does and it is making major efforts to catch up, as baroness nicholson herself has admitted. thus our message should be to encourage romania to intensify its efforts, not to try to pull the rug from underneath its feet at this crucial moment. i fear, given some of the misleading information in the original report, that party politics have more of a role to play than objectivity. (mixed reactions) the new countries have a right to criticise the european union. we have been very niggardly in relation to the free movement of labour. i am appalled at the dreadful populist campaign – which has often been racist – run by sections of the european press. i am even more appalled at certain politicians who have jumped on the bandwagon, including, i am ashamed to say, the british conservative party, which said it supported enlargement, has never raised this issue in the past and then started to dance to the tune of its tabloid masters. i hope that when reality – rather than mythology – rears it head after 1 may, member states can start to ease these restrictions. i hope that on 1 may we will enter into a brave new world of solidarity and cooperation, not of recriminations and national tensions. we need these countries to work together on economic reform to boost jobs. we need these countries to work together with us to stop multinational crime. we need these countries to work with us to deal with the problem of people trafficking – the 21st century version of slavery. together we can strengthen europe. if we can do that, we will have a lot to celebrate. that is what we should be aiming for on 1 may. (applause)
- the next item on the agenda is the vote. report (a5-0074/2004) by mr paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation implementing the international code of safe navigation in the community (com (2003) 767 - c5-0627/2003 - 2003/0291 (cod)) (the text was adopted by parliament)
we'll see that the text is corrected. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, i disagree with the last two speakers. backing this report is a very sad day for this house. i would like to focus my remarks on tobacco. i believe the commission's reform package is fair. the proposed schemes remove direct support for a product that is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the eu. half a million eu citizens die each year because of tobacco-related illness and disease – that is a million throughout europe. eu citizens find it deeply offensive that nearly eur 1000 million a year go to funding a crop that nobody would buy if it were not subsidised; a crop that does nothing but harm its consumers. today's approval of the daul report does nothing for european citizens' health. it is a disappointing day for this parliament and i am glad that 215 members voted against this report and against tobacco subsidies.
- the votes are in. (the sitting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i join with others in warning that substantial change still needs to occur in romania but that we reject the language of rejection. we should recognise the progress romania has made in strengthening the court of audit, in judicial reform and in the introduction of the new constitution, and we should not rule out a successful close to the negotiations this year. every effort must be made, in particular by the romanians, to maintain this momentum. however, we should signal our intent to them, and we do so by seeking to amend the resolution to replace the wording calling accession in 2007 'impossible' in paragraph 1. but problems remain. despite efforts to reduce the number of children in institutions, save the children romania says that no attention is paid to combating trafficking for sexual exploitation. the recent reported death of 17 psychiatric patients from malnutrition and hypothermia in a hospital in southern romania shows the severe problems faced by disabled people. our amendment no 3 shows that discrimination against these and other groups is magnified amongst roma communities. i fully support the rapporteur's view that the challenge is not simply one of closing chapters in negotiations but still one of dealing with endemic problems of corruption and political reform in order to meet the copenhagen criteria for democracy and human rights. finally, i am delighted that people from my own region in the east of england are linked through a network called praxis with the arad county council in romania. we must not lose sight of our aspiration, which is not simply about completing a political process of european enlargement but about bringing the people of romania together with all those we represent.
mr president, 1 may 2004 will finally signify the end of the cold war and seal the reuniting of a continent that we failed to protect from communist tyranny. the eu, a body of 25 states, will soon have a population of 455 million and be the biggest economic zone in the world, even bigger than the united states of america. slovakia, on which i am shadow rapporteur for my group, has undergone huge changes over the last ten years, with the current government determined to deregulate. for instance, it has just cut business tax, along with income tax, to a competitive flat rate of 19%; this is most worrying to its neighbour austria, which fears that businesses will relocate over the border. there have been similarly huge, visible changes in terms of prosperity, security, democracy, the rule of law and the fight against corruption in public life. in particular, we observed huge improvements in human rights, including minority rights, such as for the roma communities and the gay community. other matters as diverse as safety in nuclear power stations and food hygiene laws have also been implemented to the high eu standards. security is also improving for all our continent, as all acceding countries bar malta and cyprus, which i particularly welcome as british commonwealth states, will shortly be joining nato. we can safely say that previous enlargements of the eu have historically been a success story. conservatives, on balance, welcome the process and expect a similar outcome this time. however, we in the united kingdom are right to bring in measures to prevent benefit tourism, whilst at the same time welcoming those seeking to work in our country. over the horizon, we look forward to romanian and bulgarian accession in 2007. i am confident that the strong warning in the report on romania will provide the incentive for its government to drive through the necessary reforms to satisfy all the copenhagen criteria in time for romania to join in due course, as scheduled. today's sacking of the romanian justice minister is a clear demonstration of the necessary political will for that process to occur.
council. – mr president, i would like to thank the members who took part in this debate. i myself have witnessed at first hand on my visits to the accession states the quite extraordinary progress that has been made and members have rightly drawn attention to that progress. there is still work to be done, but a huge amount of work has already been achieved. parliament has addressed this issue in a most effective manner. i wish to express my gratitude to members for the role they have played in the very important task of communicating to the citizens of their countries the unique and extraordinarily important moment we have reached in terms of enlargement. i agree also with what commissioner verheugen said this morning on the need to send out a positive message – and it is a remarkably positive message. i cannot understand how democrats cannot see just how remarkable the moment will be on 1 may when europe will be reunited and when the most extraordinary event will come about without the firing of a single shot, as one or two members have said. the presidency has full confidence in the commission's ability to manage a smooth transition to membership of the accession states. i have already paid a personal tribute in this regard to commissioner verheugen. the commission has the sole competence among the institutions to carry out the task of ensuring the proper functioning across all policies. i think that is happening. the presidency at the same time urges the newly-acceding states to complete their preparations and in particular to complete preparation in areas where problems have been identified by the commission. this is worth doing for the new accession states themselves and for the union. i would encourage full attention in that regard. with regard to bulgaria and romania, we had two fine reports before us today from mr van orden and baroness nicholson. the presidency intends, in partnership with these countries and with the commission, to ensure the application of the fundamental principle of this enlargement process and in particular the principle that each negotiation will be based on the merits of the individual case. the european union will continue to monitor very closely the commitments made and the effective implementation of the acquis in order to guide both countries in their preparation for membership. the presidency urges both countries to continue carrying out these preparations energetically. we are determined to do as much as possible to carry out the mandate of the european council of december and to finish the negotiations this year. welcoming both countries into the union in january 2007 remains the european union's objective. a number of members specifically mentioned issues relating to cyprus and turkey. mr poos, in particular, touched on this. at last month's general affairs and external relations council ministers again expressed the clear preference of the council for the accession of a united cyprus. we welcome the agreement of the parties to resume the negotiation process for a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem within the framework of the secretary-general's mission of good offices. the council fully supports secretary-general annan's efforts for the conclusion of an agreement, and we remain ready to accommodate the terms of a settlement, in line with the principles on which the union is founded. i hope that the parties will redouble their efforts to reach agreement in the talks that are under way, and this clearly is in the interests of all the people of cyprus. as we prepare for the european union decision in relation to turkey in december, we must also welcome the progress that turkey has made to date in legislation for reform. minister cowen highlighted the crucial importance of moving ahead with the practical implementation of reforms at all levels of the administration and throughout the country when he led the eu troika meeting with foreign minister gül in ankara on monday last. minister cowen reiterated the assurance to minister gül that, if the european council decides in december that turkey fulfils the copenhagen political criteria, the eu is committed to opening negotiations. a number of other issues were dealt with, but i want to return to one issue – the question of free movement and migration. a number of members made the point that there is no evidence whatsoever to support some of the more scaremongering stories that have been spread in this regard. i welcome those particular contributions. certainly at this point there is absolutely no evidence to suggest that the floodgates will open as and from 1 may next. at best, this is tabloid hysteria. the study by the european commission and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions shows that, even under conditions of full freedom of movement, migration from all the new member states to all current member states is likely to be about 1% of the working-age population of the new member states over the next five years. that is hardly a flood! the study shows that typical potential migrants are young and extremely well educated – the very type of people we need in the union. it also shows that they are single, with no dependants, and that there is a high propensity for them to return to their native homes. the study confirms the view of the european commission that fears of a huge wave of migration from the new member states after 1 may are unfounded. i mention this point in particular because i know from the domestic debates on referenda in ireland how easy it is for people of ill intent to misrepresent what in fact is the position. the reality is that europe should be a europe that welcomes the ten accession states and that we should fully meet all our obligations to the ten states. in conclusion, i wish to thank the members. it has been a very thought-provoking and thorough debate. i know members have put a huge amount of time and effort into what were necessarily truncated contributions. but points made have been well noted by the presidency.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and speakers for a debate which has shown, firstly, that we really welcome our new members and, secondly, that we agree on the distribution of praise and blame. i think we can also agree that the people in the new member states have shown a willingness to change, a willingness to carry out far-reaching reforms that perhaps some of us would like to see in our own countries. (interruption by germany) i am a member of the european commission, and i am not talking about a particular country now, but there is a need for reform in a whole series of european countries, no matter who is governing them, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to thank the presidency for working closely with the commission to push this process forward and for working with us on what remains to be done. i would like to make a few comments on the discussions this morning and this afternoon. i would like to say to gary titley, as far as the issue of anti-semitism in lithuania is concerned, that we immediately took up the anti-semitic outbursts of a lithuanian newspaper. in fact, it was the commission that raised the issue in the first place and the lithuanian government has now responded appropriately. i would like to expressly confirm to the members of the house who have spoken on the roma issue that this is one of the great unsolved problems in europe, but that we could not hope that it could be solved in the context of accessions. we will need at least one generation, if not more, to be able to eliminate social discrimination against the roma. what we have asked for as a condition of accession is a clear strategy to help overcome discrimination against roma in all areas. mr sacrédeus said something interesting about turkey and cyprus. i would point out that it was the commission which made the political link between turkey's european aspirations and the cyprus question very clear, and which said that it was difficult to imagine that we could start accession negotiations with a country which does not recognise a member state of the european union or has troops in such numbers that it is contrary to the decisions of the united nations. so there was no need for mr sacrédeus to call for it. that is the position we have already taken and it is precisely this that has led to the cyprus talks now taking place. finally, i would like to turn to romania. it was the romanian government itself which made it the most important thing that the council recommended the date for concluding the accession negotiations this year. the commission disagreed on this point. we have said that we need more flexibility in the interests of romania and that it is enough if we conclude the negotiations by the end of 2005, then accession will also take place in 2007. but the romanian government, for reasons of internal policy which i understand well, has insisted on the date of 2004, and it is therefore right to ask the romanian government to make a special effort to ensure that all the conditions are met by then. i would like to confirm what some speakers have said, namely that the warning shot that came from the foreign affairs committee has led to very quick and convincing reactions, and i have the impression that the country has given itself a jolt and that the process is currently on track. i can only encourage romania to continue to act with such determination, and then i think the goal can still be reached.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – this report on the detailed preparation for eu membership by the 10 new member states who will join on 1 may has once again deservedly attracted widespread support in principle in this house. it is interesting to note that the uk unionist parties are so enthusiastic about eu enlargement and keen to welcome on board these new member states, many of whom are small, like scotland, and in many cases have recently regained their independence. a contradictory approach is taken by these unionist parties at home, where scotland is deemed, by them, to be too small, too poor and too weak to be able to exercise the normal rights and powers of independence. it is clear that ireland, for example, has prospered as an independent eu member state and it is fitting that in its role as eu presidency, ireland will preside over this, the largest ever single enlargement of the eu. i have no doubt that scotland too would be better off independent rather than being misrepresented and betrayed on a regular basis by uk ministers in the council.
- the next item is the report (a5-0110/2004) by mr bradbourn, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending the amended proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 1692/96/ec on community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (com (2003) 564 - c5-0485/2003 - 2001/0229 (cod)) (re-submitted).
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that in october 2001, following the white paper, the commission submitted to the council and parliament a first proposal to amend the decision on guidelines and to update the 14 priority projects approved by the essen european council in 1994. parliament approved the broad lines of this proposal for a revision of the guidelines for transeuropean networks at first reading, in accordance with the commitment reached. the commission's proposal of 1 october last - now on the table in this house - for this kind of 'first second reading' complements it. in the meantime, the council has reached political agreement on the text combining the two proposals, which, let us remember, involve the conception of the transeuropean networks in an enlarged europe, a europe of 27 member states. i must say that the commission's proposal today includes an update of the priority projects, but also - and i want to emphasize this point - of the organizational means to improve their planning, monitoring, coordination, financing and, therefore, implementation at european level. what we want to do here is to make the maps with the lines drawn on them a reality in our european geography. what are the main objectives of this proposal? first, it should be recalled that, on the basis of some 100 proposals submitted by the states, the high level group recommended that projects be reviewed which meet the following criteria: they are located in major european traffic centres, they are the subject of firm commitment by the states concerned, with a fixed timetable for implementation, they present advantages in terms of environmental protection, modal balance or territorial cohesion. it should be remembered that in this high level group, chaired by former commissioner karel van miert, not only were all the states of the union + 10 + 2 represented, but also the european investment bank, whose views on the economic aspects of these projects have been very useful. it should be noted that one of these priority projects concerns the so-called 'highways of the sea', which are alternatives to the saturated land corridors and which should improve the accessibility of the regions which are handicapped by their geography, i.e. the peripheral regions. the main innovation is that, within the framework of the transeuropean networks, it will be possible to grant start-up aid under specific conditions, which represents an interesting alternative for the european transport system, but also emphasises the port equipment of interconnection ports and the interconnections of ports with their surrounding areas. i should like to say that the aid for the launching of the new lines which would constitute the motorways of the sea would be limited to what is strictly necessary to ensure the viability of economic relations between two states which decide jointly to establish one of these regular interconnections as an alternative to other modes of transport. the full list of priority projects - three of which have already been completed - represents an investment of €224 billion by 2020. but that is only the essential part, the tip of the iceberg, because we must remember that the total cost of the transeuropean transport network projects in the union of 27 states is more than 600 000. in other words, if we were to actually carry out all the projects which we consider to be of transeuropean interest in order to build the transport system of the european union, we would be talking about an investment of more than 600 000 million euro, and what we point out is that of these 600 000 the most urgent is at least 225 000 million euro. i am pleased to note that the rapporteur's report emphasizes precisely the need to concentrate support and funding on priority projects within projects of european interest. this first selection effort is indispensable to clarify what is of european interest in the large networks and what is part, for example, of regional development. to strengthen coordination between the member states, the commission proposes - and we are already making new contributions beyond the design of broad lines and lines - to appoint a european coordinator for one or more specific projects with a trans-european component. the coordinator will be responsible for advising project promoters on financing and evaluation, for promoting synchronous development on both sides of the border in the case of transeuropean projects and for carrying out the various administrative procedures associated with such projects. it must be said that, from the point of view of evaluation, we know that it will require consultations, work, not only with the states 'in the first place', but also, in many cases, with the regions affected or even the populations closest to them. the commission also proposes a declaration of european interest procedure which will encourage the member states to respect the timetable for the work announced in the proposal and to integrate the evaluation procedures divided between the member states. in other words, the ultimate aim is to establish single or coordinated assessment procedures between two states, which will allow border areas to progress simultaneously and, where appropriate, border regions to be better coordinated. the commission proposal provides for the possibility of withdrawing this declaration if the requirements are not met, in particular as regards the timetable for work and the progress of the process. all these objectives i have just described are clear and achievable and, for us, indispensable. in conclusion, i would like to stress that it is still possible to adopt the proposal in this legislature - although it is true that we have very short deadlines - and for this to happen the approach of the three institutions must be based on cooperation, the will to move forward and show a certain flexibility. as far as i know, the differences at the moment are not really of great depth and i believe that it is possible to reach an agreement 'again' before the end of this parliamentary term. the adoption of this proposal before 1 may would be very important, particularly for the new member states, which could therefore benefit from being included from that date in the great project we are all working on.
rapporteur. – mr president, a key collective goal of the european union has always been and will always be that of a single market. the trans-european networks are a potent symbol of that single market, creating transport links that spread evenly the length and breadth of the eu and providing calculable benefits for business and people alike. as parliament's rapporteur, this is the core consideration i have used in developing this proposal. the community is set for enlargement in may, bringing under its umbrella another 75 million citizens, while at the same time huge growth is predicted in our major transport networks over the next decade. this more than ever is the right time to concentrate our efforts and bring this programme to a timely conclusion. we have a great opportunity to tie up this decision quickly, a mere three months after parliament first debated this revised document. whilst i firmly believe that parliament can achieve most of what it wants within the body of this proposal, there clearly remain a number of issues on which we must all exercise good judgment and flexibility. i would urge all members to come together to successfully conclude this legislation by moving forward as quickly as possible. europe needs improved transport links now. we have to remember that this piece of legislation is member state driven, and the fact that the member states have met and managed to agree a comprehensive list of projects has to be recognised positively, whilst not denying parliament its rights under the codecision procedure. there are certain areas that still need to be addressed. in our opinion the council's position does not go far enough in placing restrictions on state aid for some key elements. following the commission's decision on charleroi, we feel this principle should be upheld in respect of the tens and in particular the motorways of the sea element of the programme. you cannot pick and choose when to enforce state aid rules and cannot add state aid à la carte. we have also discussed the time limit for funding and i am pleased that the commissioner referred to that in her address. i hope that both the council and commission will agree with parliament on this, because in order to secure the long-term viability of the trans-european networks, it is imperative that we first ensure a commitment to act, as well as the sound management and financial probity of suitable projects. in conclusion, the tens programme deserves implementation. it has at its core the achievement of a single market. i sincerely hope we can move forward to a sensible and above all balanced approach to europe's infrastructure needs, which after all will help determine the future shape of transport across our continent for decades to come. i commend this report to the house.
council. – i understand the member's concerns. this is a particularly pernicious and dreadful trade. someone said earlier that it is the 21st century equivalent of slavery. it is something that belongs to the dark ages and i believe that every civilised human being would rightly criticise what is happening. i mentioned a number of events and the response i gave was comprehensive. other joint operations are planned and will be carried out in the near future at land, sea and air borders in member states and the accession countries – which is the concern raised by the speaker. furthermore, the council is awarding special attention to the setting-up of a european agency for the management of cooperation at external borders, which will integrate ad hoc centres into an institutional framework within the community. that would be very much in line with the member's thinking. on 27 november 2003, for example, the justice and home affairs council adopted a conclusion on the main elements of this agency. it was agreed that this agency would, inter alia, coordinate the operational cooperation between member states in the management of their external borders, assist member states in the training of border guards, carry out the type of risk analysis that i have already mentioned, and assist member states in circumstances requiring increased technical cooperation at borders. i hope that this answers the member's question. one of the extraordinary things about this particular pernicious trade is that its perpetrators have been extremely astute in the manner in which they have managed to smuggle their victims. the framework decision on combating the exploitation of children and child pornography relates to this whole area. it was adopted on 22 december 2003 and requires each member state to take the necessary measures to ensure that all conduct relating to child pornography and child exploitation at an international scale is fully punishable. as i said, this is a pernicious trade carried out by ruthless people. it is the 21st century equivalent of slavery. however, any fair, objective analysis would suggest that the union is addressing the issue on a significant number of fronts.
notwithstanding mr posselt's angle on this question, and the council's response – neither of which i disagree with – would the president-in-office agree that, sadly, forced prostitution, child prostitution and trafficking in human beings are all also consequences of and an inevitable feature of poverty-ridden states which lack better economic opportunities. whether we like it or not, it is true. the parallel that the minister makes as a 21st century equivalent of slavery may be true on one hand, but there is also another angle on it. does the council consider that much greater investment in and economic support and assistance for these countries bordering the new external frontiers of the european union – and in the balkans – will be essential when we have enlarged the european union? president-in-office, what action do you personally feel would be a good idea for either the irish presidency or any future presidencies to take?
council. – article 314 of the ec treaty and regulation no 1/58 determine respectively the authentic language versions of the treaty and the official languages and working languages of the eu institutions. regulation no 1/58 is based on article 290 of the ec treaty which states: 'the rules governing the languages of the institutions of the community shall, without prejudice to the provisions contained in the rules of procedure of the court of justice, be determined by the council, acting unanimously.' historically, these provisions, which came under primary law as regards article 2 and 4 of the treaty and under secondary law as regards regulation no 1/58, have been adopted only on the occasion of accessions, by means of successive accession treaties. thus, article 61 of the athens accession treaty provides for the translation into the new languages of the text of the original treaties and of the treaties amending or supplementing them. these translations are annexed to the act of accession and are authentic under the same considerations as the original texts of the treaties. in other words, after accession the treaties will have to be interpreted on the basis of the text existing in twenty-one languages and not just in the four original languages. regulation no 1/58, as most recently amended by the treaty of athens, brings to twenty the number of official languages and working languages of the eu institutions. on the accession of ireland to the community, the original treaties were translated into irish. the irish language version is an authentic version of these treaties. although irish has not been added to the list of official languages and working languages of the institutions, each successive treaty is published in irish as well as in the eleven other working languages. the texts in irish are equally authentic and have equal status with those in all the other languages. i might add in my capacity as a member of the irish parliament, and more precisely in my capacity as an irish citizen, that the honourable member will be aware that a public debate is taking place in ireland as to whether or not the irish language should be recognised as an official working and official language of the european union. the irish government has established a working group that is analysing the options available for further strengthening and enhancing the status of the irish language within the european union. that working group is examining a range of issues with a view to identifying additional opportunities in this regard. i thank the member for the question.
mr president, is it in order for me to put a supplementary question to the president-in-office following the questions raised by ms ahern and mrs morgantini?
i know that. i am not aware that ms ahern or mrs morgantini are members of the ppe-de group.
so i may not put a question to the president-in-office?
council. – go raibh míle maith agat – thank you very much brian. i agree wholeheartedly with the opening point. the extraordinary thing that has happened in the last 30 years has been the explosion of interest in a language that 30 years ago looked as if it was threatened. one of the arguments made 30 years ago was that minority languages would be crushed and in particular the irish language would disappear in the european union. that has not happened. mr crowley is absolutely correct when he says that one of the extraordinary features has been the explosion of interest in the education sector in the irish language. the most rapidly growing part of education in ireland is the gaelscoileanna, the all-irish schools at first and second level. he is correct in that. the irish government welcomes that. we always said that the european union would not bring about the end of our language; our cultural identity is stronger now than it ever was. the language has been accorded a quite distinct status within the union since ireland joined in 1973. the treaty status of the language was agreed in 1973 and that right was re-established in the treaties of amsterdam and nice. it is also set out fully in the new treaty; there is a little additional progress there. in practice, a number of positive steps have been taken by the union in relation to the irish language, for example, the treaty of amsterdam confirmed the right of citizens of the union to correspond with any institutions in any of the treaty languages, including irish. if my memory serves me correctly, article 42 in the new treaty makes a specific cross-reference to that. i regard such steps as clearly beneficial moves towards the irish language. they reflect the sort of constructive measures that can have a meaningful impact on the citizens' relationship with the union and its institutions. in short, they are practical measures that make a difference. irish is the only language other than those specified in council regulation no 1 of 1958 to which these rights apply. additionally, lingua, the union's programme for the promotion of language teaching and learning recognises the irish language for its purposes. as i pointed out in my answer, the government of ireland has set up a working group to establish what further steps can be taken. it is not, as some people believe, simply a matter of knocking on the door, cnagar ar an doras. we are engaged in the matter; i am aware of the debate; it is a debate in which i take an interest. indeed, as someone who comes from the gaeltacht part of ireland, i – like mr crowley – take a passionate interest in it.
president, as a former british european commissioner once said: 'i hesitate to intervene'. i understand your ruling and respect that you are following the rules of procedure of this house. formally, the rules of procedure permit elected members present to put supplementary questions to the president-in-office of the council. may i put a question about the cornish language to the president-in-office of the council?
i should like to ask the president-in-office a question in relation to this important issue that is before us today: would he look also at the scotch-irish language in northern ireland? as with the irish language, there has been a great interest in it and more people are speaking scotch-irish today than have spoken it for many years. however, in northern ireland there is a feeling that neither the united kingdom government nor the european union are looking at it favourably, as compared with other languages. i would ask the president-in-office to undertake to look into this matter of the scotch-irish language and see to it that the principle of equality be implemented with regard to this language, along with all the other languages of the european union, so that they can all stand on a level playing field.
council. – in answer, dr paisley, i am of course aware of the extraordinary and unique work that has been done on the scotch-irish language. i am aware of the board, and in fact i receive correspondence regularly from the board; it is a great joy to receive a christmas card in the language from the board. the lesser-used languages – whether we are talking about the language of ulster or, for example, the cornish language – are a matter which has concerned the union. however, support for the languages is not purely a matter for the presidency-in-office. in the case of the irish language a specific and unique measure was made in 1973. maybe it should have been made for the other lesser-used languages that have been mentioned here. to answer dr paisley directly, i am aware of the blossoming of interest in a language which had one stage virtually disappeared.
i should like to put a question to the president-in-office that has been already answered in part. i support the drift of the question from mr paisley that all minority languages should be given equality of esteem. the breton language exists in brittany. i had the honour of representing cornwall and plymouth in this house for ten years. speaking as an englishman, i find it sad that the cornish language died out in the 18th century. it may not be within your, power, president-in-office, to fully answer mr paisley's question, but i support what you said about the importance of the irish language. could you reconfirm that you would give equal weight to other minority languages – by which i mean cultures – throughout the whole of the european union, including the ten new member states?
- the report (a5-0061/2004) by mr dhaene, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 laying down common rules in the field of civil aviation security (com (2003) 566 final) - c5-0024/04 - cod/200322 and 2003-02-04 (cod/200310), and the report by mr nicholson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 laying down common rules in the field of civil aviation security (com (2003) 566 final) - c5-0024/04 - cod/200322 and 2003-04-05 (cod/2003105) - regulation (ec) no 2222/2003 of the european parliament and of the council on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of community air carriers against subsidisation and unfair pricing practices affecting air transport services provided by third countries not members of the european community (14141/1/2003 - c5-0018/04 - 2002/04 - 2002/04 - cod) - the report by mr dhaene, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, on regional policy, on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the proposal for a regulation of the proposal for a regulation of the second reading (a5-0064/2004) by mr nicholson, on the committee on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the committee on the common position of the committee on the common rules of the european parliament and the committee on regional policy on regional transport and tourism (com (2003)
rapporteur. – mr president, let me melodramatically apologise in advance. for some reason a nasty virus has descended upon me in the last three quarters of an hour so if i do not make a great deal of sense and if i leave early i hope the reasons are at least forgivable. i would like to summarise where i see this legislation has improved or changed for the better during our deliberations. in a sense the proposal from the commission had quite a faltering and uncertain start. i was struck as rapporteur by how weak the apparent support from a number of european airlines was for this measure. they expressed a fear, which i certainly shared at the beginning of the discussions, that the instrument being proposed and discussed here could, if mishandled, be a pretext for protectionist behaviour rather than, as is intended, a targeted instrument to deter unfair pricing and excessive use of subsidies elsewhere. the original draft was a little too open-ended. it rather bluntly stated that the european union would have the power to extend for the first time anti-dumping disciplines from the trade in goods to the trade in services, without a great deal of detail about how that would take place. our efforts in parliament during the first reading in particular have been to fill in some of the gaps, to make it a more usable and credible instrument, rather than a sort of blunderbuss threat which might arguably have been too crude to use at all. to that end we are all pleased that the council has adopted some of the amendments we tabled at first reading, notably, and probably most importantly, those specifying in the legislation itself that the commission must develop a detailed methodology by which dumped, unfair prices are calculated so that there is a coherent and credible methodology to distinguish dumped prices from normal pricing. i am very pleased the council has adopted that. i am very grateful to the commissioner and the commission for accepting those amendments too. as rapporteur, i would have liked both the council and the commission to move a little further towards our position as adopted at first reading. i remain a little concerned that there is no caveat in the legislation to the effect that this instrument should only be used if significant material injury is inflicted upon european union aircraft carriers. there is a theoretical, potential danger that this instrument will be used to pursue frivolous or insignificant cases. this instrument needs to be used sparingly and i would have preferred to have seen greater adoption of our wording, which targeted it at the really important cases. having said that, i accepted the wisdom of my wiser colleagues in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, to which i am only a very occasional visitor, who told me in the debate ahead of the second reading that this was a good package to settle with. i happily did so, except on one issue, in a sense on behalf of the commission, which had understandably expressed concern about the provisions of recital 5, and which suggested that this regulation would be subservient to existing bilateral agreements. i am extremely grateful to the irish presidency for persuading its colleagues in the council, according to all the accounts i have received, that the offending wording should be deleted so that a rigid hierarchy between bilateral instruments and eu instruments would not be established to the detriment of the latter. let me take the remaining seconds to thank the commission services, which have been enormously helpful in providing a lot of technical detail to a complete ignoramus like me. i should like to thank the commissioner for proposing this in the first place and accepting the final settlement, the council and, most importantly, my colleagues in the committee on transport. i am, as i said before, an interloper from the trade community and it was certainly an interesting and useful exercise for me to see how trade policy and transport policy have in this case come together in an extremely satisfactory manner.
- i'm sure with the virus you've contracted, mr. clegg, you won't offend anyone if you want to go home and go to bed early with a hot drink.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report evolved from the need to look at insurance cover for aircraft carriers after the atrocities that took place in new york on 11 september. it seems a long time ago, but it still remains in our memories. we had to try to achieve a level playing field between european airlines and the airlines of the united states, which then received even greater support than our airlines. we also have to keep the necessary balance between the rights of travellers, their security and, above all, the safety of air travel against these new terrorist challenges that threaten everyone in europe, and indeed in the greater world. we have come a long way towards achieving this. after the first reading, the council accepted 16 of the committee's 26 amendments, which included the provision that the depositing of proof of insurance in one member state should suffice for all member states. it also accepted the definition of a passenger. state aircraft have been exempted. the application of global amounts in accordance with commercial practice has also been accepted as have, in a range of other areas, the inclusion of local flights, measures to be taken when aircraft land without adequate insurance cover, and withdrawal of operating licence if the insurance cover is not sufficient. but there still remain areas of difference between us. the council did not share our view on how to regulate for overfliers. nor did it agree with parliament's view on the need for a harmonised inspection regime. members will recall my concern on how our proposals would affect the small aircraft operators and how we could resolve that, as also those involved in leisure flying, be it in gliders, hang-gliders or microlights. i believe it would be totally wrong to penalise any of these areas. that is why i held out for a fair deal for them. for all our aircraft in the middle to large categories we are now in basic agreement. to safeguard the leisure flyer, in respect of gliders and microlights, i have asked my group to put forward an amendment. i have agreed with the council and the commission – and i hope other colleagues will be able to agree with this as well – on what i believe is the best consensus available. there are those who have said to me that this still does not go far enough, but i think we have the best consensus available to us at this moment in time. it allows those involved in flying for pleasure to be exempt from insurance cover for war and terrorism. microlights have small engines, air stall speeds as low as 35 knots and limited weight. i believe the amendment covers an adequate compromise. if the council and commission agree, i will withdraw my amendment and there will be no need for a third reading of this particular report. we can then go forward into the future. i would add one word of caution. this is an area of legislation that can change rapidly. we should return to and revise this directive within three to four years, in the light of whatever changes may take place. we must see and analyse the effects of this directive. the truth is that the major players in the aircraft industry have been totally unconcerned, it has not affected them. but it is the small, the vulnerable and the hobby flyer who could suffer most. i would like to thank the commission and the council for their extremely positive cooperation. i would like to thank the irish presidency because it was, as stated in mr clegg's report, positive in ensuring we came to a final conclusion. without that we would not have had this result, which i trust will bring forward a directive that will work. i thank my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation, which has enabled us to get to this stage, and also my committee colleagues for their cooperation. for me this has been something of an exercise in bringing a directive to parliament that, by the time i go for re-election will, i hope, be effective legislation. that is something that will live with me for a long time. i look forward to the future. this is now a very good report.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0116/2004) by mr miller, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - the single market strategy: priorities 2003-2006 (com (2003) 238 - c5-0379/2003 - 2003/2149 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank all those who have been involved and helped me shape this report. the report is somewhat like the curate's egg – it is good in parts and not so good in parts; in fact, it is lousy in some parts. i hope that tomorrow we will be able to rectify the bad bits and remove them. first, i want to concentrate on one or two of the good bits. the report recognises that the solvit project is up and running. it recognises that there is a need for a consistent and correct application of the ce mark. it supports the work of the competitiveness council. it recognises that the internal market is about creating more and better jobs; it is about creating wealth, not just for businesses; and it is about social cohesion. it also recognises the benchmarking of existing liberalised services, based on a broad set of criteria, some of which are social. there is also the consultation with our social partners. it also encourages member states' parliaments to address the whole problem of gold plating. these are the good bits in this report. unfortunately they are only the icing on the cake. once we get into the cake we find the bad bits. that is where this report goes wrong. reading the commission's document, step-by-step, there is a clear agenda. the commission argues that many of the member state economies are in a downturn at the moment and that in order to give them a boost and to help those flagging economies we must look at more structural reform. what does it mean by structural reform? you read on and it starts talking about liberalising more of our public services. it argues that because the electricity and gas sectors are smaller than the water sector and have been liberalised, we should liberalise the water sector. taking that argument even further, in europe our health and education sectors are bigger than the water sector is today. if you go down the road of liberalising our water sector then you go down the road of liberalising our health and education sectors. that is not what i am about. i have looked at this report. this is not what europe is about. we have had liberalisation of certain industries in europe. i only need to look at british rail to see what a disaster that has been. before we go down the road of further liberalisation of any services we have to take stock of what has happened so far. we have talked about the lisbon agenda. that features strongly in the internal market report from the commission. however, when we look at the lisbon agenda, what comes up time and time again is the economic criteria. there is another side to the lisbon agenda – a social side. that never gets mentioned these days. we always forget about workers' rights when we talk about the lisbon agenda. instead, it is market, market, market. it is high time that we moved away from that. i believe that the internal market is about workers; it is about workers' rights; it is about health and safety; it is about living conditions; it is about elderly people; it is about young people; it is about disabled people; it is about employment and unemployment; it is about the training of young, old and unemployed people. it is not only about profit for major companies. tomorrow we will vote on one of the most important issues that faces european citizens: whether we give the green light to the commission to go down the road of looking at the liberalisation of our water sector. i do not believe that water is an internal market issue. i do not think that it should be in this report, but it is. i hope that we will remove that tomorrow. our citizens do not want a liberalised water sector. europe has a soul. if we sell out our social agenda, which is part of the internal market agenda, part of the lisbon agenda, then we are lost forever. we cannot let down our citizens. tomorrow we must support all the amendments that reject further liberalisation. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i am sorry i was not here for the initial part of that very passionate diatribe against liberalisation. i am here wearing two hats. first of all i have had the pleasure to shadow mr miller on this report in my own committee, as well as producing the report from the committee on industry, during which time we have undertaken the job that we were asked to do, which was to comment on the commission's strategy document. mr miller produced a very interesting report, with much of which i disagreed. i am pleased to say that the committee shared my view and therefore we have substantially improved it in committee. i very much hope and indeed encourage the house to approve our version of the report tomorrow because it addresses a number of the issues that the commission asked us to address and it was not intended as the forerunner of the pse group's manifesto for the forthcoming elections. i want to pick up one or two points, but first i must respond briefly to what mr miller said. the internal market has been one of the biggest successes of the european union. i had the privilege of speaking when mr bolkestein produced the ten-year report on the single market last year, and we have seen the figures on that which, i am pleased to say, were included in my report to this committee. they were challenged by some people who do not accept the fact that markets deliver jobs, deliver economic prosperity and therefore deliver the sort of social benefits that mr miller was advocating so eloquently earlier on. the core of european social policy is having a thriving and active economy. this is because we made the single market work, because we have stimulated competition and, yes, because we have liberated those privatised sleeping giants of state industries and subjected them to competition, which has expanded choice and reduced costs to consumers. mr miller and colleagues need only look at the report from the commission, look at what has happened to energy costs and to telecommunications costs, to see what can be done. i do not want to get too hung up on water. i am interested to see that this is a tremendous preoccupation of colleagues on the other side of the house. it is referred to here but actually the commission makes it absolutely clear that policy on ownership is not an issue. yet there is no doubt at all that there is a lot of scope for improving the efficiency and delivery of water services. you only have to look at the immense discrepancy in the cost of water to communities across the european union to see that something needs to be done about it. that is all we are asking for and that is what we, by way of my amendment no 1, hope colleagues will support tomorrow. in my concluding remarks i would like to comment on one or two points. i would like to congratulate the commission on producing for the first time a three-year perspective with a clear view forward and a series of important and coherent policies to make the single market work better. i would like to congratulate it on putting a higher priority on delivering what we have, on enforcing the measures in the single market, on improving mutual recognition, which i agree with the commission is entirely at the foundation and the heart of the single market project. that is going to give us an important perspective. i hope, with colleagues in the next parliament, we will be here to revisit it. in conclusion, this is an excellent report. i want to thank the commissioner for taking on board so much of the previous internal market committee report, for which i had the privilege of being a rapporteur. i am pleased to say that colleagues in my committee have agreed with the amendments and we have adjusted the report to reflect a continuation of what i did before, not the retrogressive views of the rapporteur in this instance. thank you for this report. we look forward to working with you to deliver the continued benefits for all citizens in the european union.
mr president, in supporting mr miller's general line about this report and in particular his points about water, i want to draw special attention to amendment no 13. it would be a very illiberal doctrine to say that liberalisation should be pursued in an inflexible way, insensitive to local realities. we ought to look at, for example, the case of remoter parts of the european union. we should therefore, for example, welcome the flexibility in relation to local transport services indicated by the recent altmark judgment. unfortunately, however, the commission has said that this cannot possibly apply to ferries. buses are not ferries – indeed they are not – but transport is transport, by sea and by land. mr miller mentioned the problem of railtrack in the united kingdom. split the ownership of the rails from the ownership of the trains and you get a crazy situation. in scotland it seems that we are about to split the ownership of the ships from the ownership of the companies that sail them. railtrack by sea! this is liberalisation pursued in an extreme and inflexible way. mr bolkestein is a frequent and always welcome visitor to scotland. i hope that on his next visit to the hebrides he does not have to travel under an assumed name to hide his responsibility for the fiasco which is about to be wished upon us!
commission. – mr president, i would very much enjoy a visit to the isle of skye, and perhaps sir neil maccormick would accompany me. but i shall certainly do that under my own name and not under any assumed name. i hope sir neil would agree to that. i shall address two points that appeared to be important in this debate. firstly, the question of whether the internal market strategy takes enough account of social, employment and environmental concerns. i must stress that the main aim of the internal market strategy is to strengthen the application of the key principles on which the internal market is based, especially as the union expands and enlarges to take in ten more member states. hence the focus on the free movement of goods and services, mutual recognition, taxation obstacles, implementation and enforcement, and the simplification of rules. that does not mean that social or environmental aspects are not important. however, there are other instruments which are much better placed to address those concerns, such as, for example, the employment guidelines. not every document the commission produces should deal with each and every issue. i disagree with the view that the internal market is not socially or environmentally friendly. more than 2.5 million jobs have been created since 1993 because of the internal market. nearly eur 900 billion cumulatively has been added to our combined gross domestic product – money that supports our social security system, pensions, healthcare and education. costs of baskets of services and goods include jobs, leaving more money in people's pockets. the internal market has promoted innovation and the adoption of clean-air technology. therefore, the internal market is a good social and environmental policy. secondly, on the matter of liberalisation, firstly, i must stress that privatisation is not the commission's concern. in fact, article 295 of the treaty prohibits the european commission from dealing with ownership. liberalisation and competition are the commission's concern, but not privatisation. concerning the services of general economic interest, the commission makes no apology for its actions to open up the network industries to further competition. industry and citizens have generally benefited, as demonstrated by the results of performance and evaluation measurement. quality and user satisfaction are higher than before market opening and prices are often lower. further market opening is desirable. for example, the commission has just proposed further steps in the railway sector and we are also looking at ways of injecting more competition into the water sector. this debate is not about deregulation but re-regulation. the quality of service and respect for general interests remain critical requirements. however, i disagree that public monopolies are the natural guarantor of such standards. competition is the consumer's best friend. it will always be up to governments to lay down the conditions that services of general interest – public or private – will have to fulfil.
mr president, mr bolkestein offers to visit skye. he is very wise! it is the only island of the hebrides now joined to the mainland by a bridge and does not depend upon the services of ferries subject to public service obligations. (laughter)
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 120)
- the next item is the second report (a5-0122/2004) by mr schmidt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 77/388/eec as regards value added tax on services supplied in the postal sector (com (2003) 234 - c5-0227/2003 - 2003/0091 (cns)).
commission. – the commission hopes for the support of parliament for its proposal and is ready to take into account a number of significant amendments proposed by members of parliament. the commission's position as regards the amendments is as follows: the commission considers that any study of the postal sector, and particularly those carried out under directive 97/67/ec, should take into account the impact of vat in the sector. the commission undertakes to take into account the spirit of amendment no 5. in view of a possible compromise with parliament and with regard to amendments nos 4 and 11, the commission could accept a delay until 1 january 2007 in the entry into force for the actual implementation of the directive in order to allow operators enough time to adapt their systems. in view of a possible compromise with parliament, which has stressed the need to protect consumers from price increases on standard postal services, and with regard to amendments nos 6, 9 and 10, the commission could agree to widening the proposed scope of postal services that may qualify for a reduced rate so as to include standard postal services relating to items of up to 10 kg in weight. with regard to amendments nos 1 and 7, recent events have once again shown that member states are very much attached to the optional nature of reduced rates, and the commission cannot, therefore, undertake to amend its proposal in this sense. however, these amendments would indicate in no uncertain terms that this parliament considers price stability of postal services of paramount importance and certainly sends a political signal to member states to make use of the option which the proposal includes. with regard to amendments nos 3 and 8, the commission considers reduced rates under 5% to be temporary measures which should not be applied to new categories of goods or services. as regards amendment no 2, endorsing a reimbursement mechanism for charitable organisations, the commission would like to repeat its view that nothing in the sixth directive prevents member states from introducing such a mechanism outside the vat system. however, it would not be appropriate, nor in keeping with the subsidiarity principle, to amend its proposal to advise member states how they should spend their tax receipts. lastly, as regards amendment no 13, the commission considers the issues posed by philatelic stamps are no different from those existing today. under current legislation, stamps are only exempt when sold at face value. they are taxable in all other cases. since this different tax liability is not causing problems today, it should not cause problems once the proposal is approved.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0115/2004) by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the state of israel (com (2003) 568 - c5-0478/2003 - 2003/0220 (cns)).
mr president, normally a scientific and technological cooperation agreement is straightforward, very welcome and an occasion for optimism, especially if it is the successor to earlier agreements on which good scientific work has been done. sadly, this agreement cannot be straightforward. from the scientific point of view, collaboration with israel is no doubt useful in the sixth framework programme. it is a strong scientific country and, as we have heard, some very useful mediterranean-wide projects, including research into water treatment, have been carried out and could be carried out in future. however, we are not discussing a normal country or a normal part of the world. israel is not a normal country because many of the present government's actions are completely unacceptable: building a fence, occupying territory, breaching human rights, using repression. despite some joint scientific work with palestinians, i have had complaints regarding barriers to some of that work. our group considered very carefully whether to vote in favour of this agreement. there are two perfectly valid, tenable points of view. one could say – as some will – that signing or ratifying this agreement will be perceived as giving the green light and an encouraging signal and endorsement to the actions of the israeli government. that is certainly not the intention. in the past the european parliament has very successfully asked for scientific cooperation to be frozen. some members advocate voting against this agreement and indeed taking much further action to show the israeli government our disapproval. a second alternative – and the one that i recommend – is to consider that science and research are positive, that the results of that work are of benefit to human beings and that this allows dialogue and provides an opening for work with palestinians. other points can certainly – and probably will – be made in political dialogue. there may be cause for action elsewhere. we have had long discussions and have come to the conclusion, in majority – although not unanimously – that the second alternative, to put faith in the possibility that the scientific dialogue, without any endorsement of the israeli government's actions, will bring some progress. we have great reservations. we want palestinian participation without barriers or handicaps. of course we want no nuclear, military or dual-use research. we want a very close monitoring of the situation. we want the eu-israel research committee to report regularly so that we can see whether this act of faith in the value of science has been worthwhile or has been misinterpreted by a government whose actions we condemn.
commission. – mr president, no questions have been put to the commission and i have nothing to add to the debate. on behalf of my colleague, mr busquin, i would simply like to thank the rapporteur and the other members who have taken part in this debate. i have the impression that the majority of parliament will support this proposal, for which – again on behalf of my colleague, mr busquin – i should like to express gratitude.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 120)
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0124/2004) by the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council decision on the interoperable provision of pan-european egovernment services to public authorities, businesses and citizens (idabc) (14816/1/2003 - c5-0017/2004 - 2003/0147 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr read).
rapporteur. – mr president, i am delighted to present this report on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy on idabc. i have been the rapporteur on several previous occasions and have had the pleasure of seeing the idabc programme grow. we have seen improvements in the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation between public administrations and what is now being proposed is that this be extended to businesses and to citizens. the journal that the commission publishes on idabc often mentions the idabc way and it is important to emphasise that the idabc way is about emethodology: not only about the projects, but looking at the way in which those projects are developed. idabc is a means to an end, a means to interactive government services at a pan-european level and it is absolutely logical to want to extend this now to businesses and to citizens. i have submitted just three amendments after discussions with the commission. they are technical amendments, which will give legal clarification to the original text. i shall spend a couple of minutes talking about why this is so important. it is about giving value in terms of quality of services. it is about encouraging citizens to be better informed in voicing their own praises and their own criticisms of those services. it is about economies of scale and sharing common services. it is true that idabc has been a driver of modernisation of public services and a contributor, as it will continue to be, to egovernment in the candidate countries. it is also important that one of the achievements of idabc is that it can give our citizens practical, very workmanlike examples of how the european union, the commission, parliament, the council have worked together to bring citizen-friendly benefits from the european union to the member states. i commend the report to you. i particularly thank my colleagues at the commission who continue to work so hard and so effectively on this. i also thank the council presidency, which took its time, but did so because it wanted to put down constructive and progressive amendments that were born of its own experience of the implementation of idabc at member state level.
commission. – mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs read, for her strong support, her openness and her cooperation. my colleague, mr liikanen, has asked me to convey special thanks to mrs read for her excellent cooperation and to say it has been a pleasure working with her over the years. the commission would also like to thank the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the european parliament as a whole for its support and flexibility, which almost ensured a conclusion at first reading. the commission is very pleased to see that both the european parliament and the council have viewed the idabc programme very favourably. on 18 november 2003 the european parliament gave its full support to this programme at first reading, delivering an opinion with five amendments. the commission amended its initial proposal accordingly and the council common position takes the amendments suggested by parliament into account almost word-for-word. the commission, like the council, fully supports the three amendments suggested by the rapporteur and the committee on industry at second reading, and hopes for a favourable vote in this house tomorrow. that would allow for swift adoption by the council. it would also allow the commission to prepare carefully, during the course of 2004, the transition from the current ida programme to the new idabc programme. the new programme will allow the commission to continue supporting the implementation of community legislation, which requires that member states and the community exchange information, by providing financial resources and infrastructure services while also ensuring interoperability. it will also allow the commission to extend further the provision of pan-european egovernment services to businesses and citizens, and to coordinate the delivery of such services in cooperation with member states. in conclusion, the commission can accept amendments nos 1 to 3.
- i would like to thank mrs read on behalf of parliament for her work on this and other issues over the last 15 years. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.05 p.m.)
madam president, i would also like to add my voice to the condolences that have already been expressed in this house following the unspeakable happenings in spain this morning. to move to the business of the sitting, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her work on this report and for the moves that she has been prepared to make in terms of a general solution to what may be a general problem, which is, after all, part of what the regulation is supposed to do. therefore, we are prepared to support her oral amendment on this occasion. one of the difficulties with this regulation is that over the years we have seen the court substituting for a lack of clarity in the current regulation and, indeed, for the shifts in the development of social security systems within member states. one of the important things provided by this update, for the simplification and modernisation of the regulation as a whole – which we have already taken on board at first reading – is the set of definitions relating to special non-contributory cash benefits. once that is adopted it will provide a clear reference framework for what is in and what is out. in the past this has been left more to the opinion of member states and there has not been any set of clear criteria which people can understand. it will mean that for some member states some things will be brought into the exportability pattern. therefore, it will provide benefits for some people. i sympathise with the dutch colleagues in their particular situation and, as i said, the oral amendment tabled by mrs gillig will go some way towards that. one of the background arguments that we have heard in this debate concerns issues of parity between the treatment of nationals and third-country nationals. that is not part of this discussion. we need clear criteria, which is why we support the rapporteur.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. our health is, quite rightly, the responsibility of the member states and i would not like to see a change in that practice. i would like to see more exchange of best practice at european level. i am delighted that all but one of my amendments were accepted in committee, but i would like to point out that the text in recital k is not quite correct. my amendment talked about long-term care, not long-term intensive care. i have taken it up with the services and they said that the mistake could be rectified at plenary. i hope that is going to be the case, because long-term care is not the same as long-term intensive care. i still think there is a problem in the last sentence, but i am sure the services can also rectify that. i was particularly pleased also that my amendment regarding the use of cage beds in psychiatric institutions and social care homes was passed, and that it was recognised that this was in contravention of all international standards regarding the care of people with mental health problems and/or intellectual disabilities. let us hope now that this practice can be discontinued completely, across the eu and in the accession countries. there has been improvement since the mental disability advocacy centre report on this subject last year. another of my amendments that was accepted – which i was pleased about –concerned the need to undertake more research projects at european level on various conditions that affect european citizens and, perhaps more importantly, for any information to be disseminated across the european union. i hope the commission might now look at the possibility of helping in that exchange of information, especially if the research has been funded by the eu, in fields such as age-related macular degeneration, for instance, which is the main cause of loss of sight in the elderly in the eu. there is much good work taking place, but no clear system set up to exchange research information. i have talked to the commission already about the possibility of publishing results on the internet, but i am sure the commission could come up with some other ideas. i have only touched on a couple of issues of concern to me because of time constraints; mrs jöns' report has gone into many other areas. on behalf of the eldr group, i congratulate her on her work and commend the report to the house.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur. this report on health care and care for the elderly is timely. according to the 2001 census, 18.61% of the population in scotland are over pension age and, even more interesting, 19.54% – almost 20% – of carers are over pension age. the ageing population presents us with huge challenges, not just in scotland but across the whole eu. that is why sharing best practice between countries throughout the eu is so vital. we need to look at simple solutions focused on individual persons. older adults can often have multiple medical problems. that is why a holistic approach, involving a multidisciplinary team of doctors, nurses, occupational therapists, physiotherapists, speech and language therapists, dieticians and social workers, along with the person's family, is so important. although more doctors are being trained in geriatric care, which is a growing area of interest, there still needs to be more investment in this expanding specialism. for the older person, there are other issues to consider. it is a popular misbelief that a large percentage of older adults live in some form of care home. in fact, a large proportion of older adults live independently, with family or social support. my great aunt agnes, at 91 years of age, is one of them. sometimes when an older patient is ill and recovering in hospital what is important to them is to be able to return home and cope at home. for some older patients this can be more important than the treatment of their medical condition itself. with people living longer, and an increasing proportion of the population over 65, it is also interesting that a lot of medical trials do not include elderly patients, although this matter is beginning to be addressed. we have a responsibility to the older population within the eu. after all, one day we too will be part of the older population, since none of us is getting any younger.
mr president, this is an important report on an important subject and i congratulate the rapporteur on her usual thoroughness and commitment. the title is significant: 'health care and care for the elderly: supporting national strategies for ensuring a high level of social protection'. we should all want to see a high level of social protection and learn from each other via the exchange of best practice at european level but, ultimately, it is national strategies that have to deliver. certainly, in the united kingdom, there is still much to do. two weeks ago, age concern england held an important debate in london called 'creating opportunity – is europe working for older people?'. it was a privilege to be on the panel together with three other colleagues from this house. we agreed about many things, particularly the need to move such issues sharply up the agenda. we like to think of the united kingdom as a rich country, but one in five pensioners are in low-income households; the incomes of those over 75 are lower still. women pensioners are the worst off of all; fully 25% of women pensioners in the united kingdom today live in poverty. their healthcare needs are proportionately greater and therefore need addressing with greater urgency. as the number of elderly people grows, the requirement for good healthcare and care services grows also. i was told recently that in the united kingdom there are some 40 000 fewer places available in care homes today than ten years ago. if this is true, it is not a statistic of which any country can be proud. it is a reminder in each of our countries that excessive regulation, which may well have been intended to provide greater social protection, can often destroy what it wishes to promote. this is a lesson for our committee on other dossiers too. finally, may i record a brief message to commissioner diamantopoulou, whose successor has just been announced by the greek government. the role of employment and social affairs commissioner can never be easy, especially when it involves dealing with such difficult united kingdom meps as mr hughes and myself. i believe she has left without having to declare who has been the more difficult, but i am sure that both of us, and hopefully all of us in the committee and this house, would wish her well in her new life back home. if colleagues agree, i would like to ask commissioner solbes to pass that message on.
- i don't want to have a discussion about this. i would like to assure the house that we have asked the quaestors to carry out a thorough investigation. their results will be open and transparent and will be known to all. at the moment we have no documentation to confirm the allegations in the german press.
- you are absolutely right, mr. karas. that is why i do not want to discuss this this morning. it's nothing but rumors and scare campaigns.
i don't want to jump to any conclusions at this point. there's a full investigation coming.
- the next item on the agenda is the vote. report (a5-0084/2004) by mr goepel, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council decision adapting the act concerning the accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia and the adjustments to the treaties on which the european union is founded, following the reform of the common agricultural policy (com (2003) 643 - c5-0525/2003 - 2003/0253 (cns)) (parliament adopted the text)
- i'd like to welcome a delegation from uzbekistan to the official box. the delegation attended the first meeting of the uzbek joint parliamentary committee in strasbourg, chaired by mr vakhidov. we are pleased to welcome you to this house.
- we will continue the vote. report (a5-0058/2004) by mr gillig, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community and council regulation (eec) no 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing regulation (eec) no 1408/71 (com (2003) 468 - c5-0368/2003 - 2003/0184 (cod))
the commission (es) mr president, the commission agrees with the oral amendment tabled.
i'm sorry about that, mrs oomen-ruijten. i was just... the rules of procedure are very clear: if more than 32 members oppose an oral amendment, it cannot be taken into account. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- i propose that we accept the oral amendments tabled by mr hernández mollar. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
i respect the way you've presented the case. it's obvious that the nerves are outside on the clothes today. the last thing i want is for the dignity of this parliament to be somehow damaged by a debate on dates when so many people have suffered such terrible losses today. i do not want to have a full debate on this.
- whatever mr cappato said - and i respect his point - i hope that parliament will accept that we are showing solidarity today. it's just a suggestion. i hope we can move forward on that basis. (parliament adopted the resolution)
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to recommend to the house that we split this vote in two and, in respect of the wishes of the house, that we delete the first half of the paragraph and then vote on the second half. i believe that will meet all members' concerns.
- amendment no 2 has been withdrawn, but we have just heard that amendment no 13 is retained. (parliament adopted the resolution)
rapporteur. – mr president, i am not in the business of helping out the liberals. paragraph 33 is poor. even if this were added to it, it would not sufficiently improve the paragraph to make it a good one. consequently, i would rather vote against paragraph 33 and vote on the amendment.
- thank you, mrs oomen-ruijten. - i'm not sure i can do this. i take it you're not very pleased.
- the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, on a point of order under rule 181 of the rules of procedure, i tabled a written declaration under rule 51 calling for a boycott of ferrero spa. this was initially distributed, but on 9 march i received a letter from president cox stating that in his view it was inadmissible and he was therefore withdrawing it from circulation. search as i may through the rules of procedure, i can find no rule allowing the president to act in such an arbitrary manner and no rule is quoted in his letter. i therefore request that the matter be referred to the committee responsible. there is a long tradition of political campaigning through boycotts: barclays over south africa, nestlé over breast milk substitutes and shell over both brent spar and kabinda. i find it staggering that the european parliament forces us to be gagged in this way, without the appropriate committee being consulted. i therefore ask that you refer the matter to the appropriate committee for urgent consideration.
the commission (es) mr president, the commission is extremely concerned about the political, economic and social situation in haiti and calls on all groups to refrain from violence and to respect the constitution. this idea of respect for international law, including humanitarian law on human rights and refugees, is fundamental. the commission supports a peaceful and constitutional solution to the crisis and this is necessary in order to be able to hold free and fair elections in the future in a climate which makes them possible. the union has supported the caricom initiative and calls on all member states to accept and support it as well. this initiative is based on the resolutions of the organization of american states and should contribute to a sustainable solution to the crisis. the european commission has granted financial support to the mission of the organization of american states in haiti worth eur 1.25 million. the commission has noted some positive developments on the political front since the departure of president aristide, particularly in the process leading to the appointment of mr latortue as interim prime minister. his appointment is an important milestone in caricom's initiative and should open the way to a constitutional solution to the current difficulties in the country, provided that the necessary measures are taken to break the cycle of violence and establish a climate of security in haiti. last week the european commission allocated €1.8 million in emergency humanitarian aid, mainly for health care for people in the rebellion-affected areas and port-au-prince, and we are ready to consider the possibility of additional aid depending on humanitarian needs. in this regard, we are working closely with the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs in haiti to identify existing needs. this team is receiving support and funding from our humanitarian aid office (echo). finally, i would point out that the commission is also working in collaboration with other international donors present in haiti to coordinate development strategies and respond to the country's immediate needs, with a view to accelerating development assistance as soon as circumstances permit.
mr president, 200 years ago, there was a slave revolt in san domingo. the slaves overthrew their french masters and established the world's first black republic, which they named haiti. a proclamation of independence pledged both brotherhood to those former masters whom 'do us justice' and 'its government henceforward to be one of justice'. that was as good as it ever got for haiti, which in our lifetime has sunk into poverty and terror. it has become a byword for state-sponsored violence and horror, with the tonton macoutes and the years of papa doc. with aristide came a beacon of hope, which was snuffed out by a military coup, reinstated, but then the country steadily lapsed into a regime of economic decline, human rights abuses, murderous militias and dubious electoral practices. now it has imploded again. bodies lie in the streets – victims of all sides – and children caught stealing beg for mercy to spare their lives. children are at risk from hunger and disease. factories and warehouses lie demolished, and with them have gone the jobs. armed bandits, drug traffickers and death-squad leaders are exploiting the leadership vacuum. the world listened too late to caricom's increasing anxiety, as so eloquently expressed by louis straker, deputy prime minister of st. vincent and the grenadines, at the acp joint parliamentary assembly in addis ababa a few weeks ago. by that point it was too late to bring the government and opposition together – not that the opposition was particularly helpful when it came to sticking to its conditions for cooperation. what can be done? france has sent troops to join those of the us. presumably they will keep their eu partners informed, consult with them, and call on them as and when necessary. should the rest of us wring our hands and leave it to them? do we follow in the wake of un resolutions? do prepare and activate our humanitarian and subsequent development aid? do we contribute to the cost of peacekeeping? do we respond to un calls to unblock roads to bring food and aid to the north? do we help the local police to recapture the 3 500 prisoners who have escaped from 20 prisons, making it difficult to bring to justice the perpetrators of crimes during military rule? we need to do all these things. we need to release the frozen edf monies. we need, once the multinational interim force has re-established order, to support caricom initiatives for a stabilisation force. we need to give support to the prime minister, gérard latortue, appointed by the council of wise men, and the interim president, alexandre. then we need to help with bringing the guilty to justice and the establishment of a truth and reconciliation commission. on a day when terror has struck on our own continent, in spain, and our hearts are with the people of spain, we need to find room in our hearts for the people of haiti too and to lend them our support and help them to have justice.
mr president, in a true democracy a struggle for political power and ideas is healthy and gives people their own choice of government and political leaders. however, the results of an election can never be made certain before polling, preventing people from dismissing an unpopular regime. president kuchma's belated interest, shortly before his term of office expires, in transforming ukraine's system from an executive presidential to a parliamentary majority one, with an appointed executive prime minister, raises suspicions that this is a political manoeuvre designed to perpetuate his hold on power when he is trailing far behind opposition leader mr ushanka in the polls. the first constitutional amendment vote in this direction on 24 december was strongly criticised by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe because it used a show of hands. some deputies were even photographed with both hands in the air, which is clearly against the ukraine parliament's own rules of procedure and a violation of article 3 of the council of europe's statute, to which ukraine has made a binding commitment and whose violation could jeopardise ukraine's membership. the pace also criticised the behaviour of the opposition, which protested by blocking all the parliament's work. on 3 february, and under international pressure, the constitutional bill was amended, which we must welcome as an improvement, to maintain a directly elected president – albeit a weakened presidency – and introduce lifetime security of tenure for judges in order to carry support from the socialist block of mr maroz, which has also declared that it will only support the final reading of the bill if substantial reforms are made to democratise the parliament via a proportional representation system. once again, the government invoked questionable emergency parliamentary procedures to accelerate the voting and bypass national or parliamentary debate. i would also like to remind the ukraine government that under their constitution, normally a constitutional change requires a confirmatory referendum by the people. like the rest of this house, i am also concerned about measures which might stifle open and free debate in ukraine. certainly pressure on the opposition media is commonplace. the case cited in the resolution of the paper silski visti is a bad one, in my view, as it was understandably and rightly prosecuted for publishing three extremely anti-semitic articles. the government also claims that the end of radio liberty broadcasts was entirely due to commercial considerations rather than political reasons of pressure on the opposition. in defence of mr kuchma, the united states allegations of breaking united nations sanctions last year by exporting the kolchuha radar system to iraq have not been proven, as no such radar system has ever been found during the weapons of mass destruction search in iraq. ukraine is now at a crossroads between a western-style democratic future with eu aspirations, which we in the european parliament support in principle, and reverting to a semi-democratic authoritarian type of system. the choice is ukraine's to make. we strongly believe the former is preferable for the future prosperity and freedom of its people and that wonderful country.
mr president, on behalf of the pse group, i wish to say that we recognise the importance of ukraine as a country with historical, cultural and economic ties to the eu and with long-term aspirations of membership of the european union. we also welcome the preparation by the commission of the action plan – due to be ready in spring this year – that will enable ukraine to integrate progressively into eu policies and programmes. however, a genuine partnership can only develop on the basis of shared common values, in particular democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights. at the moment, those conditions are not being met in ukraine and the situation is deteriorating. prison conditions, arbitrary detention and excessively long periods of pre-trial detention in ukraine remain serious problems. freedom of expression – as some of my colleagues have mentioned in more detail – is coming under increasing threat and there have been a number of serious violations of the rights of the independent media and journalists. we therefore call on the ukrainian authorities to improve prison conditions and end arbitrary detention and excessively long periods of pre-trial detention. we call on the government of ukraine to respect freedom of expression and to undertake sustained and effective measures to prevent and punish interventions against free and independent media. we ask the government to clarify allegations that its secret services were instructed to spy on journalists and ukrainian and foreign politicians in their respective home countries in order to discourage them if necessary from continuing to take up human rights issues. we ask the ukrainian authorities to make a formal commitment to hold october's forthcoming presidential elections in conditions of the greatest possible transparency, and hope that the european commission will consider, along with parliament and other bodies, whether we should send an election observation mission.
mr president, i would like to make clear on behalf of the pse group that we will be opposing all of the amendments by the gue/ngl group and the verts/ale group. nevertheless we find less than credible the much delayed decision by the venezuelan national electoral council to reject 1.2 million out of 3 million signatures on the recall referendum; two in five signatures have actually been declared invalid. we understand the wave of protest and disturbances in venezuela in the wake of that decision. nevertheless, we reject unconditionally the use of violence and deeply deplore the loss of human lives. we express our sympathy with the victims of that violence. we call on the national electoral commission to accept and adopt forthwith the recommendations of the organisation of american states observation mission and the carter centre in relation to their preliminary report. we endorse the irish presidency's statements of 23 february and 2 march, and ask the commission to use its considerable political weight in that country to ensure that the agreements made on the basis of democratic coordination are actually kept.
mr president, speaking on behalf of the socialist group, we realise that eu targeted sanctions against the burmese military regime – the state peace and development council – require review and renewal before 29 april 2004. when the council initially imposed sanctions, they agreed to monitor closely the further evolution of the situation in burma and reaffirmed its readiness to react proportionately to future developments. the situation, in our view, has not substantially improved. aung san suu kyi, imprisoned until september 2003, is now again under house arrest where she remains without access to telephone communication and where visitors require government permission to see her. there are 1 350 prisoners, many members of the national league for democracy in jail in burma. last week, the united nations special envoy to burma, rosali ishmael, had meetings with both aung san suu kyi and general kin-yun, burma's authoritarian leader. when he returned, he stated that the release of aung san suu kyi and other detained nld leaders was an essential pre-condition for any meaningful dialogue with the regime. the united nations special rapporteur said that the most urgent requirements today are for the lifting of remaining restrictions on freedom of expression, freedom of movement, information assembly and association, the repeal of security legislation and the opening and re-opening of all political party offices throughout the country. there are numerous human rights abuses in burma: forced labour, persecution of dissidents, conscription of child soldiers, etc. we call for aung san suu kyi and all those detained or put under house arrest to be immediately and unconditionally released, along with all other political prisoners, and for the nld offices closed in may 2003 to be reopened. we also insist that the authoritarian government release its grip on power and that the results of the last election are allowed to stand. we demand that sanctions be strengthened if this does not happen. we equally insist that burma should not attend the asem meeting scheduled for april 2004 in the republic of ireland, and that the presidency should refuse to issue the relevant visas.
mr president, speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group and the british conservatives, the burmese military regime, which euphemistically calls itself the 'state peace and development council', is a narco-dictatorship financed by heroin that brutally exploits and terrorises its own people. this includes forced labour, persecution of dissidents, forced relocation, conscription of child soldiers, as well as rape of ethnic minority women and children by government troops. these crimes are not committed by rebels or hidden guerrilla forces. no! the people of burma suffer at the hands of their own government soldiers. there are 1 350 political prisoners still in jail in burma, subjected to inhumane conditions, while the country's political hope – aung san suu kyi – lingers under house arrest. it is simply intolerable that eu member states remain one of burma's biggest investors and trading partners. the eu common position on burma must be strengthened. sanctions must enter into force if the regime does not take meaningful steps towards the restoration of democracy. the common position will be reviewed in 2004, but the council should also ensure that the situation in burma is reassessed in june 2004. if these meaningful steps, such as the release of aung san suu kyi and other detained members of the national league for democracy party, as well as tripartite dialogue between the nld ethnic minority leaders and burma's authorities, have not taken place, sanctions should be implemented with immediate effect. sanctions should include the following measures: preventing eu companies and citizens from investing in burma; banning imported goods and services from enterprises owned by the military, military personnel and their associates; banning the import of strategically important goods from sectors of the economy under monopoly, such as gems and timber; and banning international financial transfers and transactions either by a citizen or an entity of an eu member state. i call upon other asean states to cooperate with the eu on this issue and to exert greater pressure on the burmese regime to take the necessary steps towards democracy.
mr president, i appeal to the house and to the president to take every action possible in order to try to bring to an end the human rights abuses in iran. the iranian regime has been perpetrating severe human rights abuses for far too long. i appeal to the president to express the protest of this house to the iranian regime and call upon it to bring to an end these human rights abuses as soon as possible. there was a major gathering of europe's iranian community in brussels on 21 march, and there were heartfelt calls from iranian exiles for a change to the approach of the regime in iran. every mep in this house should back europe's iranian community in demanding human rights and in demanding justice for iranians.
mr president, today marks the official enlargement of nato from 19 to 26 members as the three baltic republics join slovakia, slovenia, romania and bulgaria – in effect all the current eu accession countries except malta and cyprus. last week i was in austria, where there is considerable political pressure for it too to abandon its cherished neutrality and join nato. it is essential we support the ongoing stability of nato, which is active in the fight against international terrorism, as evidenced by its out-of-area action in theatres as far away as afghanistan. we must not let the esdp undermine our alliance with the united states – the only military power spending serious money on defence – whilst all of the eu is cutting expenditure. we must also avoid duplication of effort with the separate planning and command and control structures of the esdp. lastly, we must reassure our russian neighbours that nato enlargement – particularly to the baltics – is no threat to their security, and the rapid ratification by these states of the cfe treaty would go a long way to calming russian fears.
mr president, i rise to raise the case of hans-martin tillack, a journalist arrested ten days ago by belgian police, under instructions from olaf. it was fairly heavy-handed stuff, i believe, with the gentleman being incarcerated for ten hours without access to a lawyer, and there are many other problems with the case. i wonder if you could raise this matter with olaf because, on the subject of eurostat, there did not seem to be the massive speed that was required for this case and it would be a much more interesting case for us in this parliament. i am also very concerned about freedom of the press in belgium and i wish you would take this up with the belgian home office. (applause)
commission. – madam president, i should like to thank the european parliament for the great efforts it has made to approve, on time, two directives which are vital for the completion of a single financial market, namely the directive on financial instrument markets and the transparency directive. it is with pleasure that i take this opportunity to thank the two rapporteurs. i should like to ask your indulgence, mr skinner, but ladies first, as you know. i should like to thank mrs villiers for her report. without her efforts and openness we would not have been able to achieve this consensual and balanced result. i should also like to thank the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs randzio-plath, who succeeded in reconciling divergent positions among political parties and national approaches. the commission considers that the compromise package that will be voted on shortly improves both on the commission proposal and on the common position. the commission can accept the compromise package in its entirety, that is amendments nos 54 to 82; in consequence the commission rejects all other amendments. the scope of the pre-trade transparency obligation is now clearer, in particular with regard to the transactions to which this obligation applies. other technical amendments – for example those concerning derivatives – provide useful clarifications without changing the orientation of the commission proposal. the commission is grateful that the compromise package does not include amendments on other political issues that had been fiercely debated in the council; reopening those issues would have put adoption of the directive in danger. the final text will be a significant step forward in the integration of european financial markets. for the first time we have been able to agree a common market regulatory framework that will put our market at the forefront in terms of flexibility, innovation and investor protection. it deserves the support of a strong absolute majority vote of members of this parliament. i now turn to the transparency directive and the report by mr skinner. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank, yet again, mrs villiers and also mr huhne, the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, as well as mr lehne of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, for their contributions and close cooperation. the commission is ready to accept the compromise package as agreed with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, but will reject all other amendments. i shall hand out a detailed list with the commission’s position to the european parliament after this debate. commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex. on the interim management statement for share issuers, we agree on the compromise that has been tabled. the commission will now monitor carefully how the agreed solution works in practice. the compromise package also comprises transitional arrangements for those third-country bond issuers in respect of bonds already admitted to trading on a european-regulated market before 1 january 2005. some member states – but not all – will make use of such arrangements in 2006, i.e. the date by which the directive should be transposed. i invite the national regulators of those member states to do their best to ensure continuity for such bond issuers, pending the completion of the assessment of the equivalence between international accounting standards and third-country accounting standards at european level. it is in our interest that we make our capital markets as attractive as possible to non-eu issuers. thus, if you decide to adopt the compromise package tabled before you, one of the final initiatives of the financial services action plan will have been completed in record time, with only a year having passed since the commission made its proposal. adoption after a single reading would be a major achievement.
rapporteur.– madam president, it was very useful to hear that statement from the commissioner. it will go quite a long way in sending the right signals in addition to many already issued in the bond markets and the markets in general. commissioner, you are right to say that today's report on transparency obligations is a central plank of the financial services action plan. it brings certainty to the financial markets and underlines the process by which companies must inform investors. there was much debate amongst the various stakeholders, sometimes leaving us quite confused and with the outcome looking slightly opaque, but i believe we have here the correct blend and a very useful piece of legislation we can push ahead with. there are some issues which ought to be underlined. the first is that despite the original plan we will no longer have a mandatory approach to quarterly reporting. that is clear. parliament was absolutely right in rejecting it and also clearly right in supporting a compromise which regularises and standardises detailed explanations, but does not allow for the mandatory approach already foreseen. the reason for this approach is that we wish to forestall any short-termism and we wish to balance this against the need for any costs. i particularly hope that this will settle a lot of issues and that we will not see a repeat in german courtrooms of what we are seeing at the moment in discussions between certain companies and certain bourses. furthermore, the type of accounting methodology we need and the necessary reconciliation with third country issuers is dealt here as well. the agreement reached between parliament, presidency and the commission to pursue a reconciliation mechanism is absolutely vital. we must therefore not drag our feet on this issue. i also mention the ten-year grandfather clause contained in article 26 which refers to half-annual reporting. this too, commissioner, is contentious, and that is why article 29 contains another reference to a review of this legislation within five years of its full entry into force. hard facts have been difficult to ascertain in this short period. we need to watch this very closely and i am glad you used the words 'watch very closely' as well. parliament welcomes a decision to bring forward urgently legislation in the company law action plan forcing all senior managers to reveal their compensation packages to investors at some time in the very near future. we will be pressing this cause very much. we regard it as something which could have been here, but we let it pass since you are going to bring it in later. we will, however, be watching very closely indeed. furthermore, there is a great expectation that the council will be as good as its word – as will the commission – in supporting the voluntary initiative to make transparent all payments made by companies in the extractive industries to all governments. in angola, 25% of the state's income – some usd 1.7 billion – disappears every year. the majority of this money derives from the extraction of oil, and because of the way the money is paid and reported, little is truly known of the corruption. frankly, it is hidden because it is illicit and it goes to the very top of government. the oil companies meeting in canada next week and the governments of the european union and the institutions dealing with good financial governance need to force the pace on this issue. they need to change what is going on. investors need to know and companies should not gamble with their reputations. moreover, those who steal from their own countrymen should be stopped. for example, post-war angola's need for money is tragic for thousands of poverty-stricken families. infant mortality, health in general and education are still priorities in this region, and yet basic greed still thwarts solid progress. calling on these companies to be transparent now would be a cornerstone in good governance and openness. in five years' time parliament will judge progress made in this legislation and it will be looking to see that it is balanced by the approach of the commission and other institutions in encouraging this progress. finally, i would like to thank all the services involved in this report, particularly margaret cazalet in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, my own group secretariat, annabel garner-boulay, the presidency, the commission, along with my colleagues both in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for the great help they have given in drawing up a very balanced report.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like first to speak on the transparency directive on behalf of the ppe-de group, which supports this package from the presidency. we believe that quarterly reporting is dead. the changes we have seen on quarterly reporting have been very welcome. i am not sure that we need the publication of the statement contained in the compromise, but i do not see that as a particular problem, so it is an acceptable part of the compromise package. mandatory quarterly reporting would have been extremely damaging and costly and would not have yielded real benefits in terms of transparency for investors. the transparency package also has vital clarifications on custodians and asset managers and sensible provisions on dissemination of information: ensuring fast dissemination across europe, but allowing member states the option if they want to require publication in a newspaper. i am particularly pleased with the result on bonds in relation to third country issuers. many of their problems have been solved and i am pleased that elements of my amendment that looked at annual reporting and the issue of equivalence for third country issuers have been taken on board in the presidency package. on the isd, i would like to thank a number of people: mrs cazalet from the secretariat, my assistant sarah mccarthy, the pse shadow george katiforis, who has given me a tremendous amount of help, and mr karas, the coordinator of the ppe-de group, who has operated in a very fair manner on this very difficult dossier. i will be voting for the presidency package. i would urge other members to do the same. i am concerned about it, however: there are many aspects of it which i think are unsatisfactory, but there is no doubt that it is much better than the common position, which is why i propose to support it. there are positive points in the package as will be agreed tomorrow. execution-only services and direct-offer products will be permitted to continue under this directive. the framework for those products is more complex than i would like, but execution-only business can continue. i would welcome it if the commissioner would confirm very clearly today that the new investment services directive – isd-2 – will not prevent people from using the execution-only services and direct offer products that they find so valuable. it is regrettable that the council has rejected ppe-de amendments on country of origin. but, having said that, removing most of the powers of host countries is very welcome and will contribute to cross-border trade. we are left with an unnecessarily complex framework for branches, but we are moving a step closer towards proper home country control and country of origin. i also welcome the inclusion of investment advice in isd-2. it will plug the gaps that exist in some countries where advice is not properly regulated. this has an impact across europe, because these services from poorly regulated countries could be sold right across europe under the e-commerce directive. it is vital that we plug those gaps and give investors a proper conduct of business rule and advice protection. i also think investors will find welcome protection with the best-execution rule. i am pleased that many of the elements of the european parliament's first reading amendments are included in the best execution provisions, and particularly a proportionate and pragmatic approach on best execution which recognises that while it is an objective standard, it is not an absolute standard. i also welcome an extensive framework of post-trade transparency, which will enable the markets to work better and provide welcome investor protection. on customer classification, i hope that isd-2 is an improvement on isd-1, where there was insufficient distinction between retail and wholesale investors. it is vital that we have a proper distinction, because each needs a completely different regulatory framework. welcome technical clarifications on commodity derivatives have also been included, which will give the isd framework the ability to adapt to innovation in the future in the commodities and derivatives markets, ensuring that new derivatives can be included in the framework in the future and thus providing more investor protection and greater legal certainty. on article 27 and the concentration rule, after what was frankly a disastrous result in ecofin, this has been something of a damage limitation exercise for parliament. speaking from a united kingdom perspective, i think it is regrettable that mr boateng, the minister representing the united kingdom in that instance, was not able to get a better result. in our second reading in the european parliament, we have succeeded in repairing some of that damage, but it was always going to be difficult to recover from what was an extremely difficult vote in ecofin last year. while we have taken some steps forward, we have also taken some steps back. to that extent, isd-2 is a missed opportunity. i fully supported the commission's proposal to abolish concentration rules, but to a significant degree that attempt has been undermined by what has now been agreed on article 27. it is a great relief that the threat of companies being required to quote for millions of euros' worth of shares has been averted. the move to standard market size from block size is very welcome and there are other important clarifications, for example, allowing firms better protection against multiple hits. but i still do not believe that we have got the best balance in terms of liquidity and competition. my aspiration was to produce a text which had effective transparency requirements and ensured good price formation without imposing regulatory burdens which were so heavy as to produce a concentration rule by the back door, and to damage liquidity provision. i will support the presidency package but i do not think it has got the balance right. the text still covers too many firms and too much business within the definition of systematic internaliser, possibly jeopardising a range of over-the-counter and traditional wholesale trading. it still leaves firms with significant regulatory burdens if they wish to compete with exchanges, and it is ironic that this piece of legislation is actively forcing firms to take on trading risk which the basel ii framework is telling them to limit. article 27 will in many ways make it more difficult for firms to compete with exchanges, which means that sadly investors will not get all the benefits of a wide range of choice of services and reduced transaction costs that would come with a fully competitive market. i am sorry that we had such resistance to more competition from certain members of the council. it is vital that this directive is implemented in a sensible way, both by the commission, by cesr – 'caesar' – and by the regulatory authorities in each country. if it is regulated in a sensible way, it will yield dividends in terms of increased competition. i would appeal to the commission to ensure that it is implemented sensibly because that is the only way we will achieve real gains in terms of competition and liquidity for investors across europe.
mr president, the commission is in an unenviable position. airlines are almost certainly breaking the law on data protection by giving the us authorities confidential information about their passengers. to take action would harm our airlines and may lead to disruption in travel to the us; not to act rides roughshod over individual privacy in the european union. the commission has sought to reach an agreement with the united states. the concerns about this agreement are widespread. they are shared by the article 29 committee, and quite possibly by the heads of state and government meeting last weekend, who amended the draft presidency conclusions on this issue. they are very much borne out from this house in this report. in the united states widespread criticism of methods adopted by the government in the fight against terrorism is evident, whether it is to do with the policy of detention without trial or the way in which the heavy hand of the state is being imposed in areas like this. the commission's proposed deal on the transfer of data is a deal too far: more information is sought than is strictly necessary; that information can be held too long with no right for the individual to correct it; there is no right to compensation for people denied boarding of aircraft and no legal redress against abuse of personal data by the state. liberal democrats believe that it is possible to be tough on terrorism and true to the treaties we have signed on civil liberties. we bow to nobody in our determination to fight terrorism. we urge our member states to act more effectively. we recognise the need to work with democracies across the atlantic; but let us do so intelligently, with a response that is measured and proportionate, and not sacrifice our freedoms in our determination to fight those who threaten them.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for her considerable work on this issue and to say that my group will support this report. the point has already been made – not least by the commissioner – that there is an issue here about balancing security and civil liberties. it is our job as parliamentarians to scrutinise proposed agreements and to hold the line in terms of civil liberties. my group believes that the balance is wrong in this agreement, because there is a lack of certainty on the protection of information. it seems, in many respects, to be a fishing policy – a wide trawl with the hope of catching something, and who cares about the by-catch, as it were. we have already heard about the question of those refused boarding. what happens to them? what happens to their employment prospects if they cannot get into the united states because some of their details do not look right? the issues of appeal and redress are crucial in any legal situation. we are already aware that certain european union airlines have been fined considerable sums of money by the united states for not supplying full data. certainly the attitude that we have heard from them is that they are quite willing to see the american government in court over these particular fines. this also raises the issue of whether our own institutions, despite the difficult situation, have the right effectively to override our own data-protection rules and controls in an international context. lastly, on the issue of passenger consent: it becomes totally meaningless if it has no result but to sign away rights that you were never sure you had in the first place. so we shall support the report.
mr president, it is exceedingly rare for me to find myself in agreement with large parts of a report drawn up for this parliament. however, the bösch report contains a veritable litany of the failings of the commission either to create an accounting system even approaching adequacy or to tackle the fraud that is inherent in everything the eu does. he quotes a colossal eur 2.12 billion – or, in real money, something like gbp 1.5 billion – as the total amount of fraud listed in the commission's annual report for 2002. from training seminars for senior civil servants that were never held, to mass defrauding of the cap, this eye-opening record of failure is there for all to see. the report notes that, incredibly, in 50% of the cases of agricultural fraud, it was impossible to identify the products concerned. under these circumstances, i also share the report's concern at the shortcomings of the work of olaf. however, the bösch report provides a list of blindingly obvious things that could and should have been done many years ago to make this leaking ship more sound. it is self-evident that a leaking ship will continue to leak and, indeed, eventually sink if it takes on new passengers. as the accession countries join the eu on 1 may, i put it to you that the eu's finances are in a huge mess and that the addition of ten new countries will simply make that mess even bigger and may well cause the ship to founder. this report very effectively demonstrates the failure of a european union that is hopelessly mired in fraud and corruption and lacks the will to do anything about it. any nation that continues to plough money into this black morass is very badly letting down the taxpayers who foot the bill.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs.– mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs prets on her report and to thank her for her cooperation in respect of the opinion from the committee on employment and social affairs. i can understand the concerns of the insurance industry. the proposal will bring considerable changes to its practices and at present it is uncertain as to how to go about implementing these changes. understandably, industry never likes uncertainty. however, i do not understand industry's argument that the current use of gender to differentiate premiums and benefits is not discriminatory because it is based on objective factors. even if it is the case that on average young men have more car accidents than young women, or that on average women live longer than men, this is not true of all individuals, and these individuals are disadvantaged accordingly. in any event, the existence of objective differences, whether between individuals or groups, is not of itself sufficient grounds for according them unequal treatment. there must be a sound political justification for doing so. i have to say that in the 21st century i do not believe that such a justification can be provided where the routine provision of goods and services to men and women is concerned, any more than it could be where other such socially constructed groupings were involved. if i speak with some feeling on the matter it is because, on several occasions in my own life, i have experienced the kind of discrimination that this directive is intended to prevent. i do not want to see new generations bearing the same scars. i would ask insurance companies to look to see whether the changes might not actually afford opportunities to them. i would not willingly purchase an annuity because i do not believe it would offer a financially advantageous way of arranging my affairs. perhaps i am not the only woman who feels this way.
mr president, in supporting the political dialogue with the andean community, let us recall that only a month ago colombian president uribe was in this chamber championing his so-called democratic security policy. however, this is a policy that is not democratic, with violent intimidation leading to the withdrawal of candidates in 100 municipalities at last october's elections. it cannot bring the much-needed security that the colombian people deserve. uribe's policies for mass arbitrary arrest have shot prison numbers up by more than 10 000 in the last year. the countryside is flooded with military personnel, and orders have gone out to kill people in groups of four or less in a sickening attempt to reduce the number of recorded massacres without any real diminution in the grisly death toll afflicting the country. indeed, evidence from the colombian commission of jurists, backed up by the university of bogota, shows that there has been no reduction in deaths at all. of course, we also condemn the murderous and brutal activities of the guerrillas, but two-thirds of the human rights abuses are perpetrated by the colombian military or their paramilitary allies, which uribe is now cynically seeking to legalise. that is why we should use the political dialogue to maintain europe's opposition to the military solution represented by plan colombia, to condemn human rights abuses on all sides in the colombian tragedy, to insist that colombia abide by all the commitments made in the london declaration of 2003 and to act as advocates for grassroots projects, such as the eu-funded peace laboratories, which truly point the way to a just and lasting peace for colombia.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (10543/2/2002 - c5-0008/2004 - 2000/0178 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (5420/2003 - c5-0009/2004 - 2000/0179 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-030/01/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin and animal origin products (10543/2/2002 - c5-0008/2004 - c5-0008/2004 - 2000/0178 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council on the common position of the european parliament and the council with a proposal for a regulation laying down common position of the european parliament and the european parliament and council regulation on the common position of the european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene and public health and consumer policy on the hygiene of the european parliament and public health of the european parliament and the food and public health of the environment (10543/10
mr president, first, we should all congratulate mr schnellhardt on his work on these reports. it has been something of a marathon and a lot of hard work, but he has done a very good job. we now have a package of measures that is going to ensure the health and safety of the european public and the quality and safety of the european meat supply for the foreseeable future. these measures, when put in place, are ones in which we can have confidence. some of the issues have been more difficult than others. we all recognise that the system should not be overburdened with too much bureaucracy, and we have acknowledged the need – certainly in some sectors – for self-inspection or inspection with a light touch. in the areas of poultry and rabbit production, there is clearly a demonstrable need for that and there is no serious problem of public health. however, there is a need for an independent inspectorate to keep a close eye on certain sectors, such as the work in abattoirs and slaughterhouses across europe, where there is a lot of time pressure and pressure to perform and where there is evidence to suggest a potential public health risk – most notably in the red-meat sector. whilst i do not know anyone who eats raw rabbit or raw poultry, i know many people – some are members of the european parliament – who eat red meat that is either raw or close to raw. consequently, there is a greater and more serious health risk in that sector than in meats that are cooked before being consumed by the public. for that reason, i consider the compromise arrived at by the council – regarding the possible extension of self-inspection to areas such as pork and veal – to be a dangerous one. i feel it is one that we should not be stepping into at this moment: it crosses the species barrier and it opens up the possibility of self-inspection in the red-meat sector in the future. i cannot support that. all of us realise the importance of these public health measures: we need only recall the terrible food poisoning incident that took place in scotland owing to the contamination of red meat only a few years ago. we have got to protect public health.
mr president, i would like to concentrate on the threat posed by the commission's proposals in terms of the privatisation of the independent meat inspectorate in the united kingdom. this issue has been raised, not only by the consumers' association, but also by the uk trade union unison, which represents meat inspectors. the feeling is that the commission's proposal would allow privatisation through the back door by placing the responsibility for hygiene in abattoirs on the meat plants themselves. therefore the independence of meat inspectors would be compromised, as those paying their wages would then be the companies they are in charge of inspecting. consumer protection should be our number one priority and no consumer should be put at risk of consuming unsafe meat. just last week we saw the issue of chicken on sale which, according to the consumers' association, had incorrect sell-by dates on the packets. on top of this we have the backdrop of bse, the tragedy of foot-and-mouth, and e.coli scares. in fact, the situation that happened many years ago to which mr bowe referred involved the butchers my family used in wishaw in scotland. there has never been such a need to reassure consumers that the meat they are consuming is safe to eat. it is in the interest of the consumer, but it should also be in the interest of the industry. when visiting a meat plant some months ago i was reassured that the quality of meat was of the highest standard and that the meat inspectors played an important role in securing quality and safety. we should not put at risk the independence of the meat inspectorate. there are 1200 independent meat inspectors in the united kingdom and i hope they will be able to continue the work that reassures us as consumers that the meat we eat is safe.
mr president, this is part of the health package put together with the food law legislation, and i salute mr schnellhardt for what he has done over many years in this regard. i support him in his urge that we should limit the degree to which the annexes here can be altered by comitology. the devil is in the details. we do not want the disease to be in the details as well. we have cause for concern in all circumstances where food of animal origin is being packaged and identified. the commissioner knows from my own correspondence with him of the difficulties we have had in the east midlands with the denby scandal and others where meat was wrongly identified and sold when it should not have been. the extension of inspection by ancillary staff in the case of red meat causes us special concern. we do not want to see this extended to fattening pigs and calves. the commissioner said that this is perfectly safe and it has worked very well with white meat. i am not so sure it has, and if he sees the consumers' association survey of the conditions in which chicken is being packaged and sold, he will see that there is room for doubt and concern even here. it is not a reflection on the hard work and dedication of the staff who are employed in slaughterhouses. it is only to establish that they are not put under intolerable pressure and that every possible safety means is employed. i personally salute unison, the trade union, for campaigning on this issue. on this and this alone i believe that we have reason to go beyond the common position for safety's sake.
- i thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this very pleasant debate. parliament and the commission are clearly making great progress. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 120)
(in writing). – consumers are entitled to demand that the food they buy and eat is as safe as it can be, and i fully support that principle but, in our anxiety to put in place regulations which will work, giving consumers the guarantees they require, we should not throw out existing measures which are already proving effective. i find it unbelievable that the present independent meat inspection system in the uk could be bettered by adopting the same style of controls currently operating in the poultry sector. to anyone who has visited a modern poultry processor, it will be obvious that the process is entirely different from that which applies in an abattoir. of course i accept that controls are put in place from farm to plate, but surely it makes sense to retain those parts of the chain which are successful, and to add in controls in areas where improvement is seen to be required. for that reason i will be opposing the parts of this package which would dismantle or privatise the independent meat inspection service.
- the next item is the report (a5-0197/2004) by mr maat, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of animals during transport and related activities and amending directives 64/432/eec and 93/119/ec.
mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr maat for bringing forward a very practical report on animal transport, because it is absolutely sure that we all want to see animal transport tightened up. it is a very emotive issue, nowhere more so than in the uk. i would also like to thank him straight away for co-sponsoring my amendments to ask the commission and the uk government to look for an opt-out, especially on the transport of live horses to the continent for slaughter. this is something that has not happened in the uk for over 70 years, and we want to make sure it does not start to happen again. i thank mr maat very much for that. one of the good things about mr maat's report is that he has differentiated between animals going for slaughter and those going for further fattening. there is no justification for taking animals on huge journeys for slaughter – whenever possible they must be slaughtered in the country where they are reared. we have also heard that at the moment about eur 52 million is still being paid out on export subsidies. a lot of these cattle are going to lebanon, and their journeys do not end there: they continue for a great many hours after that. we have to make sure we put an end to that. as we put this legislation in place, one of the keys to this whole process is proper enforcement: to ensure that we have the right type of lorries and the proper rest periods. we must also ensure that if these international transporters do not meet the requirements, they have their licences taken away. this would send a very clear message to the industry that you cannot abuse the system. what we are trying to do is good, and we need to get the right type of transport in place. i disagree with the commission proposal on the idea of a 12-hour rest on a lorry, especially if it concerns sheep. this is not practical and we must have an overall end to the journey. that is what mr maat is proposing in this report. i very much recommend the report to the house.
mr president, it is nothing short of a tragedy that the commission proposal before us is not proposing an end to the long-distance transport of farm animals and a ban on live exports. huge numbers of people oppose live exports; they are unnecessary, cruel and unjustifiable. my amendment no 114 would enable member states to ban them, and i urge colleagues to vote for it. this is not 'tilting at windmills', as commissioner byrne put it. it reflects public opinion, it respects much scientific opinion and it is the only humane and acceptable approach. that the eu can continue to allow animals to be transported across europe for many hours – sometimes over 40 or 50 hours, sometimes up to 90 hours – is completely unacceptable, both from an animal welfare point of view and from the point of view of trying to prevent the spread of disease. it is therefore crucial that parliament accepts our amendments, particularly amendment no 123, for an overall, final maximum journey time of eight hours for slaughter and for fattening. although it now seems that the united kingdom government is apparently – at the last minute – supporting the amendments for an overall eight-hour limit, i fear that this can only be a cynical pr stunt, since for the last six months it has been wrecking just such an outcome in the council of ministers. not only that, but the united kingdom government has also completely failed to guarantee to protect our horses from being exported to the continent for slaughter. these are hugely important issues and we must make sure that our parliamentary response addresses them properly. (applause)
mr president, i thank mr maat for the skilful and sensitive way in which he has handled a complex dossier. i am particularly grateful that both the commission proposal and the report recognise the practicalities of transporting animals in remote and island regions, such as the highlands and islands of scotland. the distinction between journeys for slaughter and for other purposes is an important one. other than in the most exceptional circumstances, eight hours on the road should be sufficient for slaughter and the recommendation in the report to promote the use of local slaughterhouses should make these circumstances less likely. movements of animals for other purposes – such as bringing on, breeding or restocking – may genuinely require longer journey times. however, both the commission proposal and the report seem to allow too great a repetition of travel time sequences. our amendment no 105 seeks to place a limit on these, but one that is still consonant with reasonable farming practices.
mr president, as long as people eat meat the treatment of farm animals will be the subject of lively debate. the committee on agriculture and rural development wisely chose mr maat to prepare this report, which largely succeeds in reconciling animal welfare with the economics of farming. the fact that over 450 amendments were tabled showed the extent of interest and the wide range of opinion as to detail. mr maat handled this with skill, but on such a high-profile issue the amendments tabled before parliament calling for even tighter conditions were to be expected. the committee's report achieved a number of important objectives: a reduction in travelling times; upgraded transport conditions, including provisions for rest periods, feeding and watering; additional training for drivers and animal handlers; improved enforcement of the rules; stronger rules relating to journey planning and registration; satellite monitoring of vehicle movement; the ability of member states to ban export of animals for slaughter is included; there is a preference for slaughter near to the farm and encouragement for mobile slaughterhouses. looking ahead, we must ensure that the rules are properly implemented, that transport as meat increasingly becomes the norm, and that the rules are driven more by science than by emotion. i shall support the report and look forward to early adoption of the revised rules. the provision of a review clause would be helpful and i trust the council will introduce this.
mr president, i welcome mr maat's attempt to tackle this very difficult subject. animal welfare is a very emotive issue in many ways, so any new legislation must be based on sound veterinary and scientific information. to judge from the amount of lobbying on this issue, this is clearly a very important issue for the citizens of the european union. i particularly welcome amendments acknowledging difficulties facing remote and peripheral areas for the transportation of animals – including wales and the western isles of scotland. that is an important inclusion within the body of the report. i hope we do not get bogged down, for example, in whether it is to be eight or nine hours. rather, we should focus on what in my view is the far more important issue of proper policing of the regulations and ensuring that the rules are as practical and as workable as they can be. i would like to see the live trade ultimately replaced by a carcass trade, with animals slaughtered locally. we know of the dangers of not slaughtering locally in the wake of the epidemics of foot-and-mouth and other diseases, where because of transportation of animals, those kinds of diseases spread across the country far more easily. where the transport of live animals is necessary, i hope we will end up with legislation that is both firm and fair for the industry.
mr president, the problem here is that member states fail to enforce the rules in far too many instances. therefore, there are horrific cases of animal cruelty and far too many cases of animals – living creatures – simply being treated like so many nuts and bolts on a manufacturing production line. the commission does not have a police force, and i recognise the attempts being made by the commissioner to try and introduce a system that is more capable of being enforced. however, that is no way near enough. inevitably horrific practices will continue to occur. we will find many instances of dead animals being left amongst live animals on journeys taking many days. it is now some 150 years since refrigeration was introduced, which allowed beef from argentina to be imported into europe. it is simply incredible that all this time later we are still transporting live animals huge distances within our continent. the time is going to come when we will impose a ban on this, when carcasses only will be permitted. refrigeration permits this. we should introduce a ban on the transport of live animals at the earliest possible moment.
mr president, i welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on the tremendous work he has done. this topic has been the subject of debate for a long time: sometimes heated, sometimes misrepresented, sometimes taken in the wrong way. i believe we need this, but it has to be realistic and it has to be workable. if it is not, then it will not work. nine hours is about right. i do not think it makes much difference if we made it eight or ten hours, but we have to decide something. i think nine hours is right, but if it is not right, then we will revisit this at some stage in the future. but let us start somewhere! there is a difference between animals that are going for slaughter and animals that are continuing their journey, and there is a difference between cattle, sheep and pigs. cattle travel long distances to go to agricultural shows, but these animals are well cared for by their owners. the problems start when the animal leaves the farm, goes to a haulier and moves onward. i know there are lots of differences between member states and indeed between regions and i understand the concerns in remote areas, but we must address that. it has to be left to some extent to individual countries and indeed regions as to how they work their way through this. animals should not be transported for long periods where at all possible, and the standards and the quality of lorries must be monitored very closely, especially the ventilation. animals should always be slaughtered close to the place where they were reared. we should export on the hook and not the hoof. that is the reality of this. we should be limiting export on the hoof. i know there is a difference, but animals must be respected and they must be protected. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, on a technical matter, i want to add the words 'and to the commission' to article 4 of the schulz immunity report. i would make the same request in relation to the lehne report. to explain, as members of the house will know, article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of parliament confers an immunity on members of parliament for expressions of opinion and votes cast in the exercise of their office. we believe that part of the german meps' statute is incompatible with that. we request, in paragraph 3, that the commission should verify whether clause 5 of the second sentence of that statute is compatible with community law. however, in article 4, we omitted to refer the matter to the commission in the properly formal way. members will also wish to know that this concerns a case in which two members of this house have been subjected to an injunction at the instance of bild-zeitung to prevent them holding press conferences in this house criticising the conduct of bild-zeitung in relation to the members' statute. (applause)
mr president, as you will be aware, the debate on this report only concluded just before the vote. this is a very complex and important report. there have been a number of problems regarding amendments such as the order of the amendments and how they have been grouped together. because of this complexity and because of the importance of the report, i would like to propose that the vote be delayed until tomorrow to give people more time to gather their thoughts and to take into account what the commissioner and others have said this morning. i am asking for the vote to be postponed until tomorrow.
in writing. - i voted against the maat report because it does not sufficiently protect animal welfare. it is a disgrace that animals are transported alive to the slaughterhouses. and even if they do, the transport time should not exceed eight hours and should be in properly maintained vehicles, where the animals are fed and watered. the commission's proposal is a very good one, but it is not the only one.
mr president, the middle east is the spiritual home of the three great revealed religions of the world, but sadly also the inspiration for those misguided few who invoke islam as a justification for terrorist killings, invoking in particular the bloodthirsty traditions of salafism and wahhabism. the middle east is a source of vital oil supplies to the west and the location of one of the longest and bloodiest disputes between the arab world and israel. it is also the location of some of the most ruthless regimes, ranging from the old iraq of saddam to the current government of iran. saudi arabia is also brutal in its decapitations for misdemeanours, like alcohol consumption. the middle east is a source of many of the eu's refugees, particularly from kurdistan, and if we allow turkey into the eu, the eu's borders will stretch into the middle east to face syria, iraq and iran directly. therefore stabilising this region in peace, democracy, good governance with the rule of law and respect for human rights is essential to the eu's interest, as well as the people there who have suffered under tyrannical governments for so long. that is why i support the roadmap for peace, for a two-state solution in israel and in palestine, for a democratic palestine alongside the state of israel. but i remain critical of the fact that eu money was given in direct budgetary assistance without adequate safeguards to prevent diversion of funds to corrupt practice and possibly even terrorism in a theatre of war and in a zone where such practice is commonplace: this, i believe, was wrong. tomorrow, parliament's working group looking at this will regrettably be publishing two separate reports. i have always supported and continue to support the liberation of iraq from ba'athist tyranny and remain optimistic that eventually we will see a new iraq emerge which will serve as a catalyst for democratic change elsewhere in the region. lastly, i hope to see more dialogue between moderate muslim leaders and the eu's political classes if we are to avoid the much feared clash of civilisations as a scenario.
mr president, the assassination of the hamas chief had one effect, which was that the arab league summit, which was to have taken place yesterday and today, was cancelled. that is a tragedy because the summit was to have considered a number of proposals for reform in the arab region. i want to focus on this question of reform because that is fundamental to our security in the european union. the irish foreign minister spoke about the arab-israeli conflict. he also spoke about the evolution of democracy and civil society in these lands. my question is, what can we do? while commissioner patten spoke about the barcelona process – a highly desirable process established a long time before the americans' idea of a greater middle east process – that process is not having the sort of effect that it should have. as some of you may know, i have spent some time in the last few months, as rapporteur on the democracy initiative, going to the conference in sana'a, yemen, to cairo, alexandria, damascus, to the arab parliamentary union conference and to athens last week with you, mr president. this sort of democratic odyssey is trying to establish one thing: the appetite of the peoples of the arab countries for democracy, the rule of law, civil society and so on. we know what our foreign policy priority is: we know it is human rights, it is democracy, the promotion of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. but in this arc of instability on our rim, while the eu is spending eur 700 million plus in meda funds, only eur 7 million of that is being spent on democracy. i find myself caught between the scylla of bureaucratic obstructionism in the council and the charybdis of bureaucratic obstructionism in the commission. we need a programme that works: we have the means to do it and we have the will to do it in this parliament. the question is, do the commission and council accept their political priorities? i address my remarks to two senior politicians who both occupy positions of responsibility at a very sensitive time for europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i thank mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for her report and also for listening to the ideas that i put forward in the opinion from the committee on agriculture and rural development. we all recognise the need for feed to be safe. if animal feed is safe, then consumers feel safe when eating animal products. while we recognise the need to be able to identify and isolate all those producers and feed businesses involved in the food production chain, i believe this should be done without adding another tier of registration. we recognise the need for a complete identification of all feed business operators, including farms, by adapting existing regulation systems in order to enable the competent authorities to inspect operators. however, national regulation systems which are already in place and functioning for other purposes should be utilised wherever possible to avoid unnecessary duplication and regulation. currently, the majority of farms can be identified through their participation in these schemes. i welcome the commission's proposals whereby feed businesses, except those involved solely in primary production, will be required to adopt the hazard analysis and critical control points principles. haccp is a method of identifying potential hazards and ensuring that proper control strategies are in place, and i welcome that. as mrs keppelhoff-wiechert mentioned, the area of most serious concern in the commission's proposals is the use of financial guarantees. all feed businesses, including farms, would need to fulfil a new requirement of having financial guarantees in place to cover the cost of withdrawn products in the event of a feed safety incident. this would be restricted to the withdrawal, treatment and possible destruction of products. having consulted with the farming industry, feed manufacturers and the insurance sector, we find that the consequences of introducing financial guarantees have not been sufficiently analysed. the feasibility of financial guarantees or insurance policies has not been properly developed with the industry and it is unclear whether such guarantees would be available from the insurance sector. the cost implications for feed manufacturers and farmers from such a guarantee scheme are also unclear. therefore, we would like the commission to look at this in more detail before bringing this in. finally, we are very concerned that feed coming in from outside the european union also meets these very strict criteria.
mr president, i apologise to mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for having missed her remarks. a mass meeting of the railway workers who have recently been dismissed is taking place outside, and that was where i was. i am sorry that we were unable to reach a full compromise agreement on the central issue here – the only one which i have time to address. like mr parish, i have listened to, and paid reasonable attention to, the fears that we have not really made a market or tested out a market in terms of the provision of insurance. nevertheless, i believe that at the last meeting of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, with reasonable compromises on both sides, we arrived at a position where a 12-month study could lead – and i believe will lead – to a proper assessment of how insurance provision is made. i know that pushes the commission further than in an ideal world it would like to go. however, given that the vast majority of member states and the council take this view or a stronger one in terms of the proposals, if we are to achieve any kind of agreement at first reading here there has to be an indication – perhaps there already has been – that we will follow that line. i am not personally in favour of a system that shifts to one of voluntarism on an ad hoc basis state by state, nor is my group. we know all our lessons from the history of food problems. the provision of food and feed over the years since we first began to introduce a general food and feed law suggests that we need to have measures that apply right across the community. it is no good saying that anyone can opt out of those measures. i hope the rapporteur will see that after a proper study and a reasonable length of time – and to me that means 12 months – we will arrive at that position. i hope, for its part, the commission can also accept that.
commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs thors, and the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, mrs corbey, for their hard work on this legislative proposal, on which we are close to a first-reading agreement, following a swift and constructive interinstitutional dialogue. allow me to draw your attention to the principal elements of the commission's proposal to replace the framework directive of 1989 on materials and articles in contact with food. first, the proposal extends the scope of the regulation to include innovative types of packaging, known as 'active' and 'intelligent', and provides the general legal framework for their safe use. it sets the general principles of safety and labelling and allows for additional rules, if necessary, to be adopted in implementing measures. second, the proposal will ensure better traceability and labelling of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. third, it increases transparency and legal certainty for operators, by describing the procedure for the authorisation of substances used for food contact materials. finally, the proposal will give the possibility to adopt not only directives, but also decisions or regulations, as the latter are more appropriate for certain provisions, such as lists of authorised substances. the proposal is in the interests of both consumers and industry. it would enhance harmonisation of different sectors of materials in contact with food, including recycled materials and active and intelligent packaging. i am grateful in particular to mrs thors for her intense efforts to adopt the proposal in first reading. the commission supports these efforts. we can therefore accept all amendments that are part of the compromise package that is the result of close contact between the three institutions.
mr president, i should like to thank mrs thors for this report and all her work on it. it confirms my already high opinion of her parliamentary talents. she will be a sad loss to this parliament when she goes back go finland. here we have an active and intelligent packaging of a commission proposal. it has received broad support in our committees and in the responses from the council and the commission, which i found to be entirely constructive. if we could do this more often, everybody's life would be simpler. however, there were certain questions that we had to raise. one was the extent to which traceability would be possible. i am glad that mrs thors took on board my own amendments. i accept her advice that we should not vote for amendment no 17. had she told me to go the other way, i would have done. i believe that the issue of public openness on this matter is one we should take into account. another point that some of us are slightly concerned about – and it comes up time after time in these debates – is the precise role of the european food safety authority. time after time the mantra comes up that there will be a reference to efsa, that it will do this or that. we were due to have heard from the chief executive of efsa this week. that has been postponed. where we are moving towards greater food safety, safer food packaging, better labelling and so on, we should not require efsa to do all the work. where there is a measure of derogation built into this, all of the member states seem to be reasonably happy with it. where the commission has done a good job, we should move ahead and see how far the existing institutions can do it for themselves. i wish this report well and equally mrs thors. i congratulate her on this report.
commission. mr president, i should like to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr goodwill, for the work done on this report on the commission's proposal for a regulation on certain fluorinated gases. i am grateful for the constructive approach shown by parliament and the rapporteur to a number of elements in this highly technical legislative proposal. they know that this proposal can help the european union to meet its kyoto commitments. fluorinated gases, as defined in the kyoto protocol, accounted for 65 million tonnes of co2 equivalent, that is, 2% of the total eu greenhouse gas emissions in 1995, but are forecast to increase to 98 million tonnes of co2 equivalent – from 2% to 4% – in 2010 under business as usual. for example, in the refrigeration and air conditioning sectors there is a strong upward trend in the use of fluorinated gases due to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances. our proposal addresses these rising trends. this proposed regulation, by introducing cost-effective mitigation measures, could reduce projected emissions by around 23 million tonnes of co2 equivalent by 2010 and obtain even greater reductions later.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are all familiar with the principle of substitution, the substitution of a more environmentally friendly or more healthy product for another one which is environmentally damaging or damaging to health. in many ways the use of fluorinated gases has already exhibited the principle of substitution, given that many applications that were previously used with cfcs have been substituted with hfcs. as we know, cfcs are much more environmentally damaging than hfcs, being ozone-depleting gases which we have very successfully grappled with under the auspices of the montreal protocol. hfcs are greenhouse gases like co2 and, as the commissioner said, whatever action we take on control of fluorinated gases, it cannot be at the expense of the action we need to take to control co2. hfcs are a drop in the ocean in relation to co2. first of all i would like to make a point about the legal base. there has been much discussion about this, but i am firmly of the opinion that article 95, the single market, is the correct legal base. if we were to use article 175 it would make marketing of products containing these gases almost impossible across the whole of the european union. whilst i understand the situation, for example, in austria, where they have gone further, in the interests of the single market we should maintain the legal base. there are a number of applications of hfcs, from air conditioning to air-sole trainers and to aerosol fake snow, for example, which we had a little bit of fun about in the press at christmas. but this proposal is primarily about containment, not banning. in fact there are a number of applications where no alternative is possible, for example fire protection and the use of sulphur hexafluoride in switch gear. if we were to go along with one of the proposals that the verts/ale group made, the lights would go out all over europe! with regard to vehicle air conditioning – and it is one side-effect of global warming that more people have air conditioning in their cars – the proposal was to replace hfc134a, with a global warming potential of 1300, with the more environmentally benign hfc152a, with a global warming potential of 140. i can see people in the gallery already nodding off, and that is why parliament decided that we should take a bold step to actually phase out the use of hfcs in air conditioning and substitute them with the new developing technology involving co2. under the commission's proposal there was a very complex quota system which looked as if it should start in 2009. in practice, however, as 20% of the vehicle fleets of most manufacturers are not fitted with air conditioning, these manufacturers would have met the first step of the quota system without doing anything. so actually the commission's proposal would have started in 2010. the quota system is complex and would only have worked very well with a company that had a range of products which fitted conveniently into these 20% steps. most manufacturers do not have a product line-up that fits in quite that way. and of course there was a massive loophole in the whole system, a loophole big enough to drive a rolls royce through, in that manufacturers could as an alternative pay a 200 euro fine for not complying with the directive. i suspect the manufacturers of some large expensive cars would do that rather than spend money on re-engineering. we also have the fact that hfc152a is flammable, which may cause some problems with regard to safety. that was not the final solution, and we think that using co2, maybe a little bit later, would be a much more effective compromise. that is why i am very pleased that the pse group has prevailed on me and made me see sense and that we have compromise amendment no 112, which says that, based on type-approval, we should phase out the use of hfcs and substitute with co2 from 2012, with a two-year exemption, or two-year delay at least, for some of the smaller manufacturers – what we call the porsche exemption –, moving towards co2, which is a much better goal, not only environmentally, but politically too. we also need some changes to the first line of annex 2, which i am sure the sessional services will take care of if the compromise amendment goes through, substituting '50' for the global warming potential and putting type-approval in. not all air conditioning systems are mobile: some of them are in stationary applications such as buildings like this one. this monstrous waste of taxpayers' money is cooled using hfcs! in the case of buildings, it is important that we control leakage, and inspection and control of leakages are included in the commission's proposal, which we support. but we should also reward good practice by reducing the number of inspections where leakage is not occurring, as well as stepping up the number of inspections where we have leaks. finally, i would like to thank mr lange and mrs corbey for making me see sense, and mr davies for finally coming round to our way of thinking. it has been a very interesting journey and i just hope that the people in the gallery do not think we spend all our time talking about these boring technical subjects.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, first of all i apologise for being breathless. the brevity of colleagues today has brought this debate forward slightly to the point where i was not quite expecting to be called to speak so early. nevertheless, perhaps we can finish before the dinner break. i congratulate mr goodwill, who has written a good report and taken on board many of the comments and remarks made by colleagues. we are moving towards a document which will carry to the council many of the points that we have raised and will be a sound basis for further work in the next parliament. as a geordie to a yorkshire man, i have to say, 'th'as done good, lad'. that being said, there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved. i hope we can get unity in this house for the change of legal base to a double legal base. it makes sense. in many respects this directive has two purposes, both to regulate the industrial market and also to protect the environment. we are trying to protect the environment, to remove from use, gradually and steadily, fluorinated gases, or fgases as they are called. useful though they have been to replace cfcs, hfcs themselves present problems, particularly with their global warming potential, and we have a responsibility to gradually reduce their use, but in a way that is logical, not too expensive, and where there are proven and viable alternatives. our biggest step forward and our biggest technological push is unquestionably the replacement of hfcs in car air conditioning systems. these systems are produced in their millions, their leakability is notorious – i know of colleagues at home who have had to have their air conditioning systems refilled two, three or four times. i do not accept that the solution is simply to reduce the number of leaks. the solution is to move to a different kind of gas that does not present the problems that hfcs clearly do in that sector. as regards uses in other areas, there are some key and essential uses and we want to examine them carefully before we move forward with an amendment that originated with me – amendment no 89 – which asks for an orderly phase-out over a period of time after this directive is brought into force. i hope the commission can agree to that amendment. it gives it flexibility and a task to perform, but in a steady, logical way for which it will no doubt come back to this house for approval. we will not immediately be looking to remove hfcs from fire-fighting uses, where they are clearly very useful and the alternatives are, in my opinion, not yet proven. we will not want to remove the ban from refrigerators, where there are certain medical uses which are essential. the motto with this proposal is 'forward, but with a degree of prudence'.
mr president, this is a good practical proposal from the commission for doing something about global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, although the total quantity of greenhouse gases being produced from air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is not vast, the amount is growing very substantially year by year – it is expected to increase 15 times between 1995 and 2010. the committee has rejected some of the key proposals from the commission on mobile air conditioning. i hope it has made the position for the car industry clearer. however, i am not sure that the way in which we have thrown out some of the opportunities for flexibility is really the most appropriate course of action, so we shall wait to see what the council of ministers has to say about that and, no doubt, return to this debate. most of all, i regret that the socialist group and the european people's party have done this deal on pushing the date for the introduction of vehicles using carbon dioxide back to 2011 from the original proposal of the committee for 2009. that is not ambitious enough, certainly not for a first reading, when we have so many negotiations yet to come. i know it takes manufacturers many years to design a vehicle to put on the market. a few years ago no one used air conditioning – i have never bought a car with air conditioning. what do we say to future generations? we did not take action to curb greenhouse gas emissions and global warming as fast as we could, because we all wanted to drive around in cooler cars in the summer. however convincing the industry's arguments may be now, they will look pretty weak in years to come.
mr president, i am also very disappointed with this report. it has not done nearly enough. it could and should have done a lot more to replace enormously powerful greenhouse gases with environmentally less harmful alternatives. i disagree with mr goodwill on the legal base. i still believe that article 175 is the necessary and logical legal base. as far as mobile air conditioning is concerned, it is disappointing that the committee has failed to take note of those parts of european industry that are already committed to delivering co2 mobile air conditioning as soon as possible. the technology is there and it works well, so there is no reason why a phase-out of f-gases cannot begin in 2007. beginning this phase-out two years later, as the current draft report provides for, would mean pumping the equivalent of an additional 80 million tonnes of co2 into the atmosphere. whilst the proposed phase-out for mobile air conditioning is at present unacceptable, there is no phase-out provided for at all for the use of f-gases in many other applications where alternatives are available. i believe that should be remedied. that is a serious omission. domestic refrigerators using hfcs are left untouched by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy's report, despite eu markets already being dominated by hydrocarbon, greenfreeze technology. i hope that parliament will vote to support alternative, climate-friendly technologies and take the big opportunity that stands in front of us to do something serious about the environment, rather than letting the single market ride roughshod over these very important concerns. it is a pity that mr goodwill did not read our amendments more carefully. far from leading to the lights going out, the green amendments specifically called for the phase-out of sf-6 with the exception of switch gear. so let us have a debate based on the facts, not on the myths.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur. i welcome this proposed strategy looking at the connection and links between environment and health and i welcome the commission's proposal. i would like to focus on the issue of indoor pollution and in particular passive smoking – i know mr rod has just touched upon that. it is apt that we discuss this report in the week that the irish government introduced a ban on smoking in public places, especially since the irish government currently holds the presidency of the eu. the irish government should be congratulated on its initiative to protect the health of all its citizens, including those who work in smoky pubs, clubs or restaurants. breathing other people's smoke is dangerous for your health. tobacco smoke contains over 4000 different chemicals. in the usa the environmental protection agency has classified environmental tobacco smoke as a class a carcinogen along with asbestos, arsenic, benzene and radon gas. passive smoking is a risk factor in childbirth and infancy, connected to low birth weight and cot death; in children it is a risk factor in asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia; in adults it is a risk factor in heart disease, stroke, lung cancer and nasal cancer. estimates suggest that in the uk alone 8000 deaths through heart disease are caused by passive smoking each year. this is a serious issue and there is no way to escape the fact that passive smoking is bad for your health. i hope more member states will copy ireland's excellent example. i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for their hard work.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i speak on behalf of the author of the committee's opinion, michael cashman, who cannot be here today. mr cashman welcomed, in his opinion, the proposal for a regulation on the application of the århus convention to ec bodies and institutions as a concrete step to align the ec legislation with the requirements of the convention. although the committee's opinion approves most parts of the commission text, there was some need to improve it. as the rapporteur on the proposal for a regulation regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, mr cashman insisted that this regulation must be in line with the letter and spirit of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents, where, after negotiations, a sensible balance was agreed between, on the one hand, the citizen's right to openness and transparency and, on the other, the need to protect certain interests and to preserve the effectiveness of the institutions' working methods. the opinion suggests, for example, a deletion – in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 – on exceptions where public authorities would not be covered when acting in a legislative capacity. the opinion suggests that the operative text of the commission proposal should clarify that all exceptions under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 shall apply to requests for information. finally, a general concern of the committee's opinion is about the deadlines proposed by the commission. particularly when it comes to access to justice, community institutions and bodies should be obliged to act within reasonable deadlines and to increase the duty of public awareness-raising in order to achieve meaningful consultation. clearly, mr cashman would have wanted to add his own opinion but could not be here today. i hope i have set out the main points that he would have proposed in the debate.
mr president, like all the other speakers so far, i must join the chorus and say that i believe this is a reasonable compromise. to use an english cricketing metaphor, it is important to deal with these kinds of issues in a pragmatic way and to 'take it in singles', to move one step at a time in order to try to ensure that the way in which we deal with the kind of pollution problems that this directive is supposed to deal with actually works. clearly it is important to make sure that pollution is not generated in the first place. i am not sure how much that has to do with the apportionment of the way in which liability arises if pollution does occur. if it occurs then we need to see how it is dealt with. as other speakers have said, the polluter-pays principle must be the right one. on the other hand, if one defines the polluter-pays principle, it is important that one does not just cast about to find some wretched victim who may have had some kind of association with what happened and heap all the liability on to him. perhaps that is why we disagree with some of the other speakers in this debate. i can envisage circumstances where it is right and just that the government has a role, where pollution has taken place, and where it may not be appropriate to put the blame or impose the responsibility for what occurs on some other party. lastly, it is important in the context of the politics of this kind of debate not to have a knee-jerk reaction to any particular pollution incident in the recent past. we often hear mention of the prestige. of course that was a disaster, but when we are thinking about general rules against general problems, we must not be too specific.
mr president, again on behalf of my british conservative colleagues – my colleague lord inglewood, who worked on this, has spoken already – and my group, i certainly welcome very much the excellent work of mr manders over a long period and also through conciliation. i am bound to remark, as a member of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, that the decision that our committee should undertake this work, much contested by colleagues in other committees, has been more than amply borne out in the practical and pragmatic response that we have had, and i think we have a workable proposal. however, as a number of colleagues have said – and this is a time for looking forward rather than backwards, because we have the agreement on the table – there is a lot of work to do to establish the clear responsibilities with organisations and to ensure through the so-called competent authorities in member states that companies' operating processes and anyone involved in potentially environmentally damaging activities are fully aware of their potential responsibilities under this directive. i want to encourage the commissioner – who, i hope, will leave something in place as part of her legacy as five years as commissioner – to start to encourage member states to exchange practice, firstly, about how they are going to establish their competent authorities or, indeed, how they are going to allocate responsibilities to existing environmental agencies that many of them have already established; and to establish the sort of networks of sharing of best practice that we are seeing in a number of other pan-european regulatory environments, such as energy and communications. there seems to me no reason why that process should not start at once, and also why communications to affected organisations should not also start. this directive, as a number of colleagues have said, has a very slow-burning fuse to it. member states have quite a generous three-year timescale. there are also long timescales before review. however, if, as we all believe, prevention is what we are after – rather than clearing up damage afterwards – we need to start action straight away and there is no excuse for delaying on that. so i welcome the agreement. however, this is only the start and i am sure – and hope – that the commissioner will leave that structure in place for us to follow through.
mr president, i wish to begin, like everyone else, by thanking the rapporteur for his report. he has done a good job over a relatively short period of time. this is a much-needed report and, for obvious reasons, the accidents in romania and spain, but also other incidents that have taken place around the union over time, have demonstrated quite clearly that this kind of material poses a real danger to human health and to the environment if it is mismanaged. this proposal deals with those environmental industrial problems. many of us were somewhat surprised by the number of amendments initially tabled on the proposal, but in many ways that simply reflects the importance and the seriousness of the nature of this proposal. sadly, we in the uk have long been aware of the dangers of mining waste since the terrible disaster of aberfan in 1966 and the terrible deaths that occurred there. consequently, our national legislation has been particularly strict and strong with regard to mining waste. however, there were parts of this new legislation that were new, innovative and worthy of adoption. there were some, though – particularly the extension of the scope to inert waste – which i felt were misguided. nevertheless, i felt that the need for a registry of closed sites and previously occupied new sites was particularly important if we were really to establish the full extent of the problem across europe. in the end, we have a good result. i commend the proposal to the house. it will fit neatly alongside the complementary legislation – ippc, seveso, and landfill – and make a positive contribution to the protection of the environment, human health and sustainable development.
mr president, as i am sure you are aware, next wednesday the world will commemorate the tenth anniversary of the rwandan genocide. nearly one million people were slaughtered, and international intervention came only too late. even now, we have to ask if there is the political will to put in place the measures likely to prevent future suffering on this scale. you will, i know, agree that there must never be a 'next time', and i would therefore request that tomorrow we remember the events in rwanda ten years ago and that we have a minute's silence in support of the need to never stand aside again.
mr president, it has been a while since everybody left a european council meeting smiling. i congratulate the presidency on a focused summit that delivered in many respects. this summit suggested that there is another europe: one that can actually get things done. european liberal democrats and reformers welcome the new will to reach agreement on a european constitution by the june european council. president-in-office, a combination of events and canny diplomacy have paved the way for agreement. in the words of an irish blessing, 'may the road rise up to meet you'. this house badly wants a deal, but our terms have not changed and will not change. we expect a treaty based closely on the convention text. we expect the council to respect the budgetary powers of parliament and extend democracy in our union through qualified majority voting and greater codecision. we expect the council to make the difficult compromises needed in good faith and then go back to sell those compromises at home. this show will not be over in june. ratification is a mountain still to climb. this summit also acted decisively to fix the way we protect ourselves against terrorism in europe. my group welcomes the appointment of gijs de vries as anti-terrorism coordinator and demands that he be given a clear mandate to ensure he can get the job done. the next step is to reinforce the resources at europol and set it to work: no new bureaucracy, no duplication, no more foot-dragging from european intelligence agencies who do not like to play with others. if this is not our frontline defence against terror then it is just a cheap gamble with the safety of europeans. liberal democrats and reformers also back a strong commitment to ratifying existing instruments such as the european arrest warrant. we have proposed an implementation league table that will name and shame states which take lightly the safety of their citizens. the weekend's decisive tone has to translate into action. let us be clear about that new decisive tone. let us remember what europeans – what madrileños – had to endure. this house has been urging a more concerted policy on terrorism since before 11 september 2001. let us recall that when the commission asked for eur 15 million for counter-terrorism intelligence last year, the council offered eur 1 million. europeans deserve better. a counter-terrorism policy conceived in panic is far too likely to invade private lives and erode public freedoms. on biometrics, on passenger data transfers – that is what we are in danger of getting. my group wishes to remind the council that it has once again ignored the explicit demand of this house that it discuss detention without trial at guantanamo bay and that it commit to raising that issue with the americans at the eu-us summit. any european government that reckons on the issue going away has not reckoned on the will of this house. my group welcomes the commitment in council to speeding up the pace of reform on the lisbon agenda. we remind the council that 40% of the single market directives have not been implemented in all member states. we remind the council that the growth and stability pact must be revived this year so that europeans can have confidence in the sound management of europe's economy. the tone of public debate in germany and france suggests that european governments are not properly making the case for reform at home, whatever they may say in brussels. before this summit i called for a sense of urgency on three areas: terrorism, the igc and economic reform. to paraphrase w. b. yeats, of our quarrels with others we make rhetoric, of our quarrels among ourselves we make poverty. the summit showed a willingness to get back to the business of europe. let us hope the political will holds and the momentum lasts – for all of our sakes. (applause)
mr president, the taoiseach says that he believes that the principle of the dual-majority system is now accepted. but it seems to me that it is not yet accepted in practice because one sees the various ministers trying to supplement the dual-majority formula with further qualifying clauses which would permit a specified number of member states to form a blocking minority. my strong advice to the presidency would be to reject such superfluous complications. it would be far better to achieve a simple formula, say 55/55, which dispenses with the need for a third key. europe cannot be built upon mathematical equations, but on political trust.
mr president, the european summit in brussels last week gave a mandate to the irish presidency to complete the negotiations for the constitutional treaty by the next summit on 17 june. to move from a union of 15 member states – soon to be 25 – to a single state with legal entity, whose laws will have primacy over the laws of those member states, is a development which my party – the uk independence party – believes should not be concluded without the express will of the population by a referendum. our politicians in westminster voted yesterday to deny the british electorate that right. that decision will certainly lead to public discontent. we shall continue to put pressure on our government to concede a referendum. opinion polls show that the british people, if given the chance, would reject this constitution. it is my party's unambiguous view that britain would be better off out of the eu, and the first step towards that position would be to deny mr blair a mandate to sign the constitution. if he does sign up to it, let us be clear: it will mean the end of our right to self-government.
mr president, i want to associate my party and our 37 members here in the european parliament with the words of the council communiqué expressing sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the terrorist attacks in madrid, with their families and with the spanish people. on lisbon, i welcome many of the points in the council statement: the need for substantial structural reform, the completion of the internal market, better regulation and sharing of best practice. however, current european economies remain so restrictive and inflexible that progress will be hard to achieve. there remains, i must say, a deafening silence on our own inability to reduce the tide of regulation, which gravely damages our competitiveness and destroys jobs. good intentions, sadly, are no substitute for practical measures. on the constitution, mr watson and mr duff's party leader in the uk has joined my party in calling for a uk referendum on a constitution. on monday in the house of commons he argued that a constitution was needed in order to define and make clear the limits of eu power. the question, he said, is: does this constitution have constitutional implications? the answer he gave was an unequivocal 'yes'. you have argued, taoiseach, that member state governments must show flexibility and compromise on all sides – i noted your words. however, in that very same debate mr blair said that the issues of tax, social security, the uk abatement, foreign policy, defence, and criminal justice are all parts of our nationhood, and we will be insisting upon them. therefore there are two further questions. firstly, on asylum and immigration in that debate, mr blair assured the people of britain that it was absolute rubbish to suggest that the eu would have any role in determining any policy decisions or laws in this area. secondly, on the charter of fundamental rights, he assured the british people that the european court of justice would have no jurisdiction whatsoever to enforce this charter or the rights that were expressed within it. i think it is a rather different legal situation and would be grateful for your view. it is hardly surprising, when our prime minister denies that a constitution for the eu has any constitutional implications, that people find it rather difficult to trust him. that is why my party says that we should trust the people and have a referendum.
mr president, may i, too, congratulate the irish presidency on the way it has handled the igc negotiations. the taoiseach referred just now to the importance of give and take in these negotiations. i return to the issue of give and take in relation to one specific point – the budgetary powers of the european parliament. the text of the convention involved a bit of give and take. we, as a parliament, have given up our right jointly to decide by interinstitutional agreement with the council on the financial perspectives and simply, instead, give our assent to those perspectives. in exchange, we have taken the right to have the final say within those ceilings and within a margin of manoeuvre on every item of expenditure – what was previously obligatory and non-obligatory. that is a balanced, fair package with give and take. some finance ministers are arguing only for take on their side and no give. they would reduce parliament to giving just an opinion on the financial perspectives and they would also place limits on the other aspects of our budgetary powers. that, frankly, is not acceptable to the european parliament. it would be one of our red lines – we, too, can have red lines. i turn to what 'harry pottering' said on behalf of the ppe-de group. he said that his group is altogether in favour of the constitution. i am delighted to hear that in his group, the british conservatives are in favour of the constitution, because that is not what some of them said in a debate of the house of commons yesterday, nor what jonathan evans said in a debate with me on bbc television last friday. they are going to oppose the constitution, indeed, they even announced in the house of commons that they will use every parliamentary device they can to thwart it. they are also stirring up scare stories about the constitution. they are alleging that it creates a centralised superstate with all powers handed over to brussels, where brussels will be able to overrule national policy in every area of governance. we, in this house, know that is not true. they are telling fibs and trying to stir up the eurosceptism that is latent in much of the british press and in parts of public opinion to their electoral advantage. we cannot let them get away with this. we must have a debate based on the facts and not the myths. i hope that 'harry pottering' will sort out his group – wave his magic wand, perhaps – and ask those members who apparently want to belong to his very federalist group in the european parliament to draw the consequences of that. under our rules of procedure, you join a political group on the basis of political affinity. i wonder what affinity there is between the british conservatives and the bulk of the ppe on this fundamental question. there seems to be none, and i invite the ppe-de to have a vigorous internal debate on this matter.
mr president, the fight against international terrorism is the eu's greatest challenge. in my london constituency yesterday british police arrested eight british citizens of pakistani descent with half a tonne of bomb-making material. we need much stronger measures to combat this scourge, and my party, the british conservatives, will even accept the appointment of a counter-terrorist coordinator if this can be shown to improve security. i also fully support cooperation between law-enforcement, judicial and intelligence services and agencies, not just within the eu, but globally with allies such as the usa, and with other powers such as russia and china which have their own domestic islamist problems in chechnya and with uighur minority and terrorists who are connected to al qaeda. british conservatives reject the european arrest warrant and do not accept that this problem has anything to do with third world poverty, as many terrorists come from wealthy middle-class educated backgrounds. indeed, the poorest areas of the world like africa have themselves been victims of foreign terrorism, as we saw in the embassy bombings in kenya. we need strict enforcement of legislation on combating money laundering and on the freezing of terrorist assets, and the ratifying of the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters concerning the monitoring of bank accounts. europol's anti-terrorist unit needs beefing up, but we do not need a european public prosecutor, and the uk is wise to stay out of schengen and control its own borders. the european public fully accepts that security comes first and that their cherished freedoms, including privacy, will be curtailed in this fight. lastly, i call for more condemnation by muslim leaders of terrorism and the rejection of extremism within their communities. i was particularly disturbed to read that 13% of british muslims support suicide bombers. i therefore welcome the statement yesterday by the british muslim council which has called upon all the leaders within their mosques to reject terrorism and to cooperate fully with the uk police and authorities in identifying those behind these recent attempts at violence.
mr president, on a point of order further to those that have already been raised, i would also like to ask the presidency of parliament to consider exactly what the rules are – and how they are enforced – as to the use of cameras filming members going about their duties. in every legislative body or council with which i have been associated, there are firm rules about what can be done and what cannot be done. the evidence we have shows that a lot of things have been going on that should not have happened, and they ought to be stopped. can we have the assurance that will happen? (applause)
mr president, you are right that we must investigate transparency and accountability. could we also investigate whether we are within the law with regard to employment? i have been continually concerned at the lack of an assistants' statute. does this not give us an opportunity to check and confirm that we are within the employment legislation?
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not use its nuclear weapons in the same way as the united states. we know that there have been extensive negotiations between the european commission and the us authorities on personal data. we are satisfied that the agreement reached strikes the right balance between the desire to protect privacy and the goal of protecting our lives and freedoms. while we understand that passengers may find this inappropriate at times, recent events show that we all need to be on our guard. we're all part of this fight.
council. mr president, at the outset i should say that as a past united nations human rights fellow and indeed as a one-time chairman of the irish commission for justice and peace, i am particularly pleased to be here to speak on this report. i welcome the opportunity to participate in the debate on what is a fundamental report of critical importance to the union. the report merits careful consideration. as the rapporteur said, if the european union is prepared to demand high standards in the human rights area, it should also be prepared to scrutinise its own performance and deliver high standards. given the wide range and nature of the report, it is not possible to address all the concerns raised, but i will endeavour to address some of the key issues. in recent weeks we have all been horrified by the tragic events in madrid, and our deepest sympathies go to the victims, their families and all the people of spain. as the taoisech has already reported, a declaration on terrorism was adopted by the european council and sets out a package of measures designed to enhance the capacity of the european union to meet the threat of terrorism. we are also conscious of our obligations to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms when undertaking any counter-terrorism measures. there can be no compromise on these fundamental values; there is no trade-off. the effective suppression of terrorism necessitates respect for due processes and for the rule of law. the declaration commits us to combating terrorism in accordance with the fundamental principles on which the union is founded. the european council also agreed that negotiations on the new constitution should be resumed. as the members of this house will be aware, the charter of fundamental rights, which was discussed extensively at the european convention, and on which there was an overwhelming consensus, is an element to be incorporated in the new constitutional treaty – something that we will all welcome. the tampere european council in 1999 agreed to work towards the creation of a common european union asylum system on the basis of the full and inclusive application of the geneva convention. we welcome the progress made yesterday in the justice and home affairs council on the asylum qualifications directive. our priority is to finalise this and to reach agreement on the procedures directive as part of the completion of the first phase of the common european asylum system. turning to another issue, trafficking in human beings is an appalling, exploitative and criminal practice. the brussels declaration on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, endorsed by the council last may, provides the basis for a comprehensive five-year programme, which we are actively working towards. the council has also agreed measures to give assistance to victims of trafficking through the provision of short-term residence permits to victims who cooperate with the competent authorities. in this context i recall the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which was adopted last year and which is all part of the human rights defence spectrum. in relation to the issue of solidarity and social exclusion, member states have adopted national action plans in the context of the lisbon agenda, outlining the actions to be taken to combat social exclusion. the second such plan was developed in all member states last year, following a consultation process with social cohesion interest groups. the european council agreed that a high level of social cohesion was central to the lisbon agenda and that strategies which make a decisive impact on social exclusion and on the eradication of poverty should be reinforced. it focused particularly on the key role that could be played by the modernisation of social protection systems. we see employment as the primary route out of poverty and out of social exclusion; employment in well-paid jobs, enabling citizens to enjoy higher levels of prosperity throughout the union. the european council recognised that delivering more and better jobs was the most urgent issue to be addressed. it is essential to attract more people into the labour force. achieving higher rates of labour force participation by women and older groups should assist in combating social exclusion and in averting the continuing higher risk of poverty experienced by these groups. it is also in the interest of the community to do this in any event. turning to equality issues which were addressed in the report, the overall effect of the three european union equality directives is to require member states to prohibit direct discrimination, indirect discrimination and harassment on the grounds of gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in relation to employment, self-employment or occupational and vocational training. victimisation is also prohibited. it is important now that we move ahead to fully implement these vital protections for some of the more vulnerable groups in our society. making progress on the draft directive on equality of access to the supply of goods and services has been identified as an important priority of the irish presidency and has an impact in this area. the representatives of the member states meeting within the european council in brussels on 13 december 2003 noted the importance of human rights data collection and analysis to assist in policy formation. they agreed to extend the mandate of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia to become a human rights agency, and the commission is preparing a proposal to give effect to the european council decision. on free movement within the union, i would like to record the adoption of the directive on long-term resident status for third country nationals. this opens the possibility to access long-term resident status after five years of legal residency and the recognition of equality of treatment in a series of aspects of social and economic life. given some of the wilder statements in some of the media referred to by the rapporteur about issues relating to free movement, this is a very welcome development. on a personal note i would like to mention in particular that there is a reference in paragraph 155 to judicial delays. i have to say to the rapporteur that i was most impressed by the fact that an irish case is cited there. it is a case in which i myself was involved and the delays there were, in my view, unforgivable. i have noted with interest the question of participation in european and local elections and the democratic deficit. as we approach the european elections, it is in all of our interests to encourage and to ensure the highest possible turnout of all eligible voters. participation is at the very heart of democracy. unfortunately, it is clear from public opinion surveys, poor voter turnout in european union elections and media reporting that many europeans feel disconnected from the european union and consider that they are not sufficiently informed about the eu. for this reason the presidency has decided to convene a ministerial conference on communicating europe which takes place next week. the conference will have two key objectives: to discuss how people might be better informed about the european union and to assess how we might promote greater engagement by all europeans in deciding how our union develops and moves ahead. once again i would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate and, on a personal level, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what i regard as a very fine and an extremely significant report.
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs boumediene-thiery and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on an excellent report which is a good example of the continuing efforts of parliament to promote a genuine policy of fundamental rights within the european union, which we want to build together. this is a document which, once again, draws on the charter of fundamental rights, even though the rapporteur has chosen a cross-cutting thematic approach to the charter, analysing the criminalisation of social movements and vulnerable groups. in the context of the fight against terrorism, which unfortunately is once again a very topical issue and which affects us all deeply, it is necessary to ensure that fundamental rights and public freedoms are respected. i can assure you that i stand firmly behind this principle and i hope that after the tragic events of 11 march in madrid, we will be able to unblock some of the difficulties encountered in the past in adopting legal rules on the protection of individuals, including common procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings, which are fundamental to building mutual trust and applying the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions. measures to protect democracy and the rule of law in europe against all forms of crime and terrorism will have to strike a clear balance between the protection of fundamental rights - in particular the right to security and freedom, which are inseparable rights - on the one hand, and social protection measures on the other. it is clear that the european union is at a very important moment in terms of the protection of fundamental rights. by enlarging, by setting its own constitutional rules and by developing an area of freedom, security and justice, it is on the verge of defining its true identity. your report has a very important function, namely to monitor the observance of fundamental rights by the member states - and this is very important in itself - but also by the european institutions. the report will also help to promote fundamental rights, and this is an essential element for the future. all recommendations you make to the commission will be assessed very carefully with a view to giving them the most appropriate follow-up. i shall now concentrate on a few points. first, the network of independent experts on fundamental rights has just completed its report for 2003. the commission has just received the final version of this report, which will be officially forwarded to you as soon as possible. i would like to point out that, in response to the request made by the european parliament last year, the network sent us this year the 25 national reports which form the basis of the synthesis report for the network as a whole. like the first report of the network, the 2003 report, which expresses the views of the only network of independent experts and not those of the commission, emphasises not only certain concerns related to respect for fundamental rights, but also, it must be said, positive aspects, and in particular good practices developed within some member states that could inspire equivalent solutions in other states. the network of experts is concerned to preserve the link between the charter of fundamental rights, which is their reference instrument, and the more general developments in international human rights law, in particular the developments in the european convention on human rights. the report presented by the network covers a particularly broad range of topics. in several respects, the network emphasises the contribution that the exercise by the union of its powers in criminal matters can make to the protection of fundamental rights, for example in the fight against racism and xenophobia, the fight against trafficking in human beings or the fight against impunity for serious crimes under international law. the network provides important commentary on the evolution of asylum policy in the member states and in the union's instruments. in this connection, minister roche has just mentioned that yesterday agreement was reached in the justice and home affairs council on a particularly important directive, the directive which harmonises the concept of refugee under the 1951 geneva convention, which approximates the subsidiary protection systems existing in all the member states of the union and which covers the very important and delicate issue of persecution by non-state actors. the network's report also expresses concern about the slow pace of european law's integration of developments in the law of some member states concerning the concept of the family. i now turn to the question of the fundamental rights agency. as minister roche has just mentioned, the european council in december decided to extend the mandate of the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia to become the fundamental rights agency. the idea of creating a fundamental rights agency was also requested by this parliament, in particular in the report prepared by mrs swiebel on fundamental rights in the union in 2001. the commission had already started to assess the advisability of setting up such an agency. the idea was announced in the commission communication on article 7 of the treaty on european union which we presented to parliament last october. the commission will present a reflection paper in july to bring the concept of a fundamental rights agency into operation to a wide public debate. we believe that the creation of the agency should be preceded by a broad debate on its objectives and methods of action. in order to allow the next parliament to participate in this reflection, this phase of dialogue with civil society will continue until october and will be concluded by the commission organising a public hearing on the basis of which we intend to present a draft regulation on the new agency in spring 2005. i cannot now comment on the substance of the matter, but i can already stress that the creation of the agency will in no way jeopardise the study of racist and xenophobic phenomena, which will remain important pillars of the agency's field of action, including its political visibility. it cannot be otherwise at a time when - as the work of the vienna observatory and in particular its reports on anti-semitism which are to be presented to the european parliament today shows - fears of the development of racism and xenophobia are again manifesting themselves in europe. it is also clear that the establishment of this agency will have to respect the existing institutional balance. finally, we do not currently envisage extending the mandate of the agency beyond the territory of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european policy on fundamental rights is thus taking shape. the year 2000 saw the proclamation of the charter and, following the recommendation of the european parliament, we set up the network of experts in 2002. the entry into force of the treaty of nice marked an important point in the application of articles 6 and 7 of the treaty. the new constitutional treaty will give the charter of fundamental rights a legally binding character and provide for the union's accession to the european convention on human rights. in its communication on article 7, the commission presented a framework for analysing the conditions for the application of this provision in the future, with an emphasis on prevention, which involves, in particular, consultation between the institutions and with the member states and dialogue with civil society. the future of european integration rests on the common values of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democratic institutions. these common values must be the basis of all action in the field of justice and home affairs. the internal and external dimension of human rights will need to be addressed in a coherent manner. i am firmly convinced that with the constitution we are profoundly changing the legal and political environment of the union. i hope that the commission and parliament, together, will be on the right track to build a genuine fundamental rights policy within the european union.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, i would also like to congratulate mrs boumediene-thiery on her far-reaching report. i should record that in many ways my party is not altogether happy with the charter of fundamental rights as it came in and, especially in view of what we have heard from both the president-in-office and the commissioner, we have concerns that it could become yet another framework for regulation and bureaucracy, when common sense and good manners should be allowed to have their individual way. with the imminence of our elections, we are all aware that the largest party in europe is now the apathy party. we are very conscious that the forecasts for turnout in june are going to be even lower than in the past. a major task facing the next parliament will be to bring the citizens of the new europe to a greater understanding of, and involvement with, the institutions. and they are their institutions, not our institutions. there are a number of methods by which citizens can make their voices heard. they can apply directly to their elected national governments, which make up the council; to their commissioner nominated by their elected government; to us, as elected representatives; to the european ombudsman; and also to the committee on petitions of this parliament. it is on behalf of that committee that i have submitted an opinion on this report. we in the committee on petitions have noticed how often we are able to sort out things which should have been sorted out at a national, or even sometimes a regional, level. however, the continuing existence of the committee on petitions provides a very useful safety valve and stopgap, and, uniquely among parliament's committees, its work will continue over the interregnum into the new parliament. some of you may have noticed that there is a work of art – i assume it is a work of art – in the centre of the tower building courtyard: a glass globe, approximately two metres in diameter. from a distance it seems simple and transparent, but the closer you get to it, the more complicated the construction appears and the more opaque the surface. this is a superb, but ironic, symbol of both this parliament and the european union. i therefore suggest that it is the job of the new house and the new commission to make the present institutions work and to simplify their relationships with citizens. this would do much to meet the objectives laid out by the president-in-office and to ensure that we, when we are re-elected, have the support of our citizens.
mr president, i would like to start by echoing the point made by minister roche in his introduction that it is to the european union's enormous credit that we can produce this critical self-appraisal, this report on human rights within the eu. it is very easy to criticise other parts of the world; it is more difficult, and to our credit, that we are prepared to look within the european union, the european parliament, the european commission and the governments working together to make a more democratic institution – not by any stretch of the imagination a super-state that needs to be feared, as we might read in the papers. as commissioner vitorino quite rightly said, there are many positive points that we can take on board from this; and we can build on good practice from one country to another. i also agreed both with him and with minister roche when they spoke of the need to develop a modern interpretation of the geneva convention on refugees. the situation today is different from the post-war era of 1951, but the challenges may be similar, even if the practicalities will be different. we all need to cooperate if we are to implement its principles. nothing could be more important for an eu of 25 countries than to have a common european policy on immigration and, alongside but separate, a common european policy for asylum. the rapporteur has referred to the need for this and i commend her on her work. as she says, it must not be based on the lowest common denominator; rather, a system that will gain the most respect and be the least subject to criticism will be based on the highest possible standards, will respect families, and will respect human rights.
council. mr president, the debate was very interesting. i concur with the view put forward by many that our union is rooted in a shared commitment to freedom, human rights, democratic institutions and the rule of law. our union must be an exemplar in all of those areas, otherwise we are an exercise in hypocrisy. i mentioned that in the tampere programme the council reaffirmed the importance that the union and the member states attach to the absolute right to seek asylum, mentioned by several members. it agreed to work towards the establishment of a common european asylum system. that is very important and absolutely correct. mr evans, for example, said that the system we establish must have clarity. he is absolutely correct in that regard. given the debate that has been raging in a number of member states, i want to touch upon the issue of migration, an issue raised by a number of members. there is a disturbing rise in xenophobic comment, particularly in some parts of the popular media. europe is open to migration. indeed migration into europe is both necessary and desirable, along with migration within europe. the development of a common eu migration policy is therefore of particular importance. both mr evans and ms kaufmann touched upon this. it is important that we have a clear-cut policy on legal migration in order to help put an end to some of the disturbing hysteria. the irish presidency will continue to support an initiative by the commission to combat trafficking in human beings, especially bearing in mind the work of the expert group in this area and the brussels declaration. quite a number of speakers made reference to the charter of fundamental rights in the draft constitutional treaty. it strikes me that the charter of fundamental rights elements in the draft constitutional treaty are one of the great pillars on which that treaty is based. the charter provides an additional safeguard for citizens of the union in their dealings with the institutions of the union or those of member states when they apply union law. i simply cannot understand how this can be portrayed as anything other than positive. i was therefore surprised by the contribution by the earl of stockton in this regard. i do not think it is correct to portray the charter as a negative; it is positive in every regard. the earl of stockton made the point that common sense and good manners are the best protection. perhaps he would be right if we lived in an ideal world, but we do not. we live in a less than perfect world. my personal experience is that common sense and good manners have failed us on more than one occasion. several members made reference to the importance of a free press in the protection of civil liberties. a free press is fundamental to the protection of civil liberties. the same members, however, mentioned concerns about excessive concentration. concentration is a fact of life right across the european union, and to the extent that it interferes with the free exercise of comment or dulls the capacity of a free press to act as a protector of all our liberties, such concentration is a cause for concern. i thank members for the very interesting and stimulating debate. i also want to thank members for the kind words they had to say about the irish presidency. i can assure you that the presidency, in carrying forward the council's work, will give careful consideration to the points that have been made today. i congratulate the rapporteur on this report. we may not agree with every single word and every comment in the report, but it is incredibly important that we hold a mirror up to ourselves from time to time to see if we can meet our own high standards. this report certainly helps in that regard.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and this report show beyond doubt that, unfortunately, there are still many cases of violation of fundamental rights in the european union. but i think that for members of the european parliament who will shortly be standing before their electors in elections which are particularly important for the future of the union, it is fair to acknowledge that the acquis of the last five years in the field of fundamental rights is an impressive acquis, which is not shameful and which, on the contrary, allows citizens to be motivated to participate in the electoral process around the prospect of building a european policy on fundamental rights. the convention which adopted the charter of fundamental rights, the role played by the european parliament each year in identifying fundamental rights problems - sometimes a very ideological debate, but certainly a very topical debate - the amendment of article 7 of the treaty of nice, the creation of a fundamental rights agency and, as the president-in-office of the council, mr dick roche, has just said, the prospect of giving the charter of fundamental rights a paramount status in the future european constitution, all constitute, i think, a set of elements which enable citizens to demonstrate that the body directly elected by them has always placed the question of fundamental rights at the forefront of the concerns of debate and political action. my second comment concerns the references that have been made to immigration and asylum policy. we do not hide the fact that there are differences between member states, which are sometimes difficult to overcome, and that often the price to pay for overcoming them is an agreement based on the lowest common denominator. we have always regarded these agreements as a first step in the progressive framing of a long-term asylum and immigration policy. we do not hide this, but we do not become defeatists either. today, i must confess - and i say this with a heavy heart - the day after the council of ministers finally adopted a directive on the definition of the concept of refugee, on the approximation of subsidiary protection schemes and on the recognition of non-state actors as agents of persecution who give rise to international protection for the persons concerned, we recognize that this directive is very positive, has advanced content in the field of international protection, is a great step forward in defining a european concept of asylum. so let us not be defeatists today and let us recognize the positive side of the step that has been taken. the third point concerns the protection of privacy and fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism. we're not creating an orwellian world. i must say that we are facing a threat and it is in the name of protecting our open way of life that we must create the conditions for security and for preventing terrorism. to do this, we must use certain technologies which prove to be the most appropriate. the problem is not fighting windmills. the problem is not fighting technologies in the abstract. the question is to ensure that these technologies are used in a way that respects the law and the necessary safeguards for privacy and fundamental rights. that is the challenge we are facing, and in that sense i must say that i am counting on the participation of the european parliament in the definition of the legal rules which should govern the introduction of biometric data in passports or visas, or with regard to the interchange of data in the field of security. finally, the policy of protecting fundamental rights in the european union has a fundamental reference point in the charter of fundamental rights, but it is not limited to the charter of fundamental rights. we do not want to be left out of the wider development of the protection of fundamental rights in the whole of europe, particularly in the council of europe. and so there is no contradiction between recognising the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as a constitutional statute and at the same time advocating the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. and that is what the future european constitution is aiming at.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the report to the world bank on the extractive industries.
council. mr president, it was a short but very interesting debate. i would like to say at the outset that i did not mean to disappoint mrs frassoni, but i did make in my own contribution a number of points relating to measures that have been taken. however, i accept the point she made regarding the world bank not being something from which we are disconnected as absolutely valid. indeed, mr wijkman commented on the protection of vulnerable countries and communities and in particular protection where the temptations of corruption are huge. of course this is true, and as regards good governance, the world bank has a responsibility to ensure that. we know from the cases cited here what is happening. we know of the environmental degradation suffered particularly by powerless indigenous peoples. mr van den berg also spoke very dramatically about what he described as the silent and hidden ecological war, and another member made a point about gold mining and the degradation it has caused. in fact it is quite correct. these matters should be of concern to the world bank and to the international community. mr van den berg rightly spoke of the need to balance development on the one hand with the rights of indigenous peoples and, equally important, the need to ensure that monies from exploitive and extractive industries are dedicated to the service of the peoples of the region, a point touched on also by mr rod. i would like to make the point that this is a relatively new area of concern to the council, but the council is ensuring that the european union continues to play a role in global fora as a leading partner in favour of sustainable development. that is the most important point, and sustainable development is the term that covers all of these issues ranging from the impact on, for example, indigenous peoples to the impact of environmental degradation and it also includes the disappearance of the yields of this development through corruption. at the meeting of 2 march, the council reiterated that the implementation of the commitments to the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development must continue to have the highest priority and to be integrated into all relevant internal and external policies of the european union. i take that point as relating specifically to mrs frassoni's point. the council expects that all member states will defend these common views in all international fora, including the world bank. if i disappointed you in my earlier contribution, i hope i have made up for it now!
- i have received six motions for resolutions (see minutes) pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on international trade in organs. i give the floor to minister roche on behalf of the council.
council. sorry, mr president, i was a little distracted – mrs frassoni was flirting with me there. it just goes to show that on occasions the european parliament can be a much more pleasant place to be than dáil éireann; i have not had that experience before! we now turn from humour to something quite horrific – the modern equivalent of burke and hare, namely the trafficking in human organs. as medical science has progressed in the area of organ transplantation there is a growing demand for organs, with a resulting problem in trafficking in human organs. this is an appalling and disgusting practice and is a serious violation of human dignity and physical integrity. it also has serious implications for the combating of organised crime, because as in everything else, organised crime has managed to get into this particular area. we know of the involvement of criminal gangs in this quite extraordinary activity. i am aware that this has been an issue of concern and debate in parliament. in fact, i commend parliament because it has been very much to the fore in condemnation of this practice. it is also an issue of concern to the council and it is important that in addressing this we do so properly and are clear on the scope of the problem. this is a complex and multi-dimensional issue and requires careful consideration. a proposal for a council framework decision on the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues was presented by the greek presidency in february 2003, in the framework of the justice and home affairs council. the aim of the proposal is to contribute to combating trafficking in human organs and tissues as a form of organised crime. the draft framework decision contains proposals to require member states to ensure that the removal of an organ from a donor using force, threats or fraud, or the removal of an organ from a donor who has consented because of payment, become criminal offences. also included as offences are the recruitment, transportation or harbouring of a person where use is made of force or threats or where payment is made for the removal of an organ or tissue. it also proposes that participation by medical or nursing staff in the transplantation of an organ in the knowledge that it has been acquired by any of these means will be a criminal offence. the proposition in the framework document will be quite wide. the proposal has been discussed on a number of occasions by relevant council bodies. several member states questioned the need for an instrument at this time. it has also transpired that member states have no precise information on the scale of the problem, within the european union or involving it as a destination. in this regard, the findings of the falcone project, which includes a 13 member state study of the matter, will be of interest. the irish presidency will continue to monitor member states’ views on the usefulness of a measure such as this at the level of the eu with a view to establishing whether progress might be made in respect of such a measure. turning to the related issue of the legal use of organs for transplantation, very specific issues arise because of the shortage of organs. there is a need to ensure high standards of quality and safety. the commission has indicated that it will conduct a thorough scientific evaluation regarding the situation of organ transplantation. it will present the conclusions of this evaluation as soon as possible and we look forward to receipt of that report. i can summarise by saying that at this stage we are very much at the beginning of a process which may well take a long time to reach any form of finality. but the fact that we are debating it is an indication that there is an awareness and a concern about the issue.
commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the debate here today on a problem that gives rise to serious concern, that of trafficking in human organs. the victims of this type of crime are particularly vulnerable human beings, in particular children. illicit trafficking in organs can lead to significant health risks for both the donor and the recipient. trafficking in human organs is an obscene violation of the right to physical integrity and, in the most tragic circumstances, of the right to life, as recognised by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission has recently been increasingly informed about alleged situations of illicit trafficking in human organs in mozambique and albania, not least through written questions recently addressed by mr ribeiro e castro and mrs karamanou. it has also been alerted by increasing rumours in the media. these alleged situations of trafficking are particularly worrying and the commission is following them very closely, through the commission's delegation in the regions concerned and in close dialogue with member states locally, in particular in the context of the political dialogue with these countries. in relation to the situation in mozambique, the commission has contacted the office of the attorney general, who has assured it that investigations are under way. the commission also reinforced its concern at a meeting in brussels with the ambassador of mozambique. the reality shows that trafficking in human organs tends to move from the south to the north and from the poor to the rich, not excluding, however, movements within a particular region. regional and international cooperation are essential to tackle this phenomenon successfully. the criminals in this type of activity benefit from the weaknesses of local police, often undermined by corruption, which therefore does not prevent the transboundary illicit trade in organs; as well as from inefficient judicial systems. it is worth mentioning that the commission has been emphasising how important it is for albania to take the necessary steps to conclude an agreement with europol. albania, as i mentioned earlier, is one of the countries alleged to be the scene of activities of trafficking in children's organs, whose destination is, allegedly, the european union. in order to prevent the entry into the european union of human organs resulting from illicit trafficking, the measures taken to improve cooperation between member states' police services and customs administrations and to strengthen external border controls are of great value. however, specific measures directed at this type of crime seem currently to be inadequate. it was in this spirit that greece, during its presidency of the union, presented an initiative for the adoption by the council of a framework decision concerning the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues. the aim of this initiative – as already mentioned by the presidency – was to define which types of conduct should be punishable in all member states and to establish minimum rules relating to the penalties for such offences. the commission was largely supportive of this initiative, while recognising, however, that more in-depth legal and factual examination and knowledge of the situation in the member states was necessary. in this context, and in view of the weaknesses detected when trying to move forward the greek initiative, it is important to mention that europol's competences were extended in january 2002 to include illicit trade in human organs and tissues. europol is currently studying this phenomenon and collecting relevant information and data concerning the legal and illegal aspects of trafficking in human organs. europol can indeed have a great added value in this common fight. as far as the collection of information is concerned, i should also refer to the fact that the council of europe has recently looked at the issue of trafficking in human organs and that it produced a report in december 2003 that provides a useful insight into the current situation in europe regarding this phenomenon. under the commission's agis financial programme for police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, it is also possible to support projects in this particularly delicate area of criminality, which has still not been fully examined. in addition it is important to stress that the commission recognises that the severe shortage of organ donors remains a major obstacle to preventing the full development of transplant services and imposes a severe limit on the number of patients who are able to benefit from this form of therapy. this shortage of organs can encourage illicit trade. the commission is fully aware of the consequences resulting from the shortage of organs and, for that reason, it has indicated as a priority action in its work plan for 2004 for the implementation of the programme on community action in the field of public health 2003-2008, the development of a strategy for the european union in order to raise awareness and increase availability of organs used for transplantation. indeed, the commission has already conducted a survey of the current practices and legal requirements related to organ transplantation in the member states and the acceding countries and is in the process of analysing the results. this analysis will be communicated to the european parliament, as well as to the member states, as soon as it is concluded. in conclusion, a number of initiatives have been launched to combat illicit trafficking in human organs and the commission will continue to support such initiatives as are appropriate in order to combat this unacceptable trade.
madam president, i have been listening to this debate, especially to minister roche, and it has been something of a surreal experience. i have been increasingly puzzled as it has gone on. mr roche, you concluded your remarks by saying that this process was at its beginning. this rather begs the question: what is the coordination between the presidencies of the european union? you referred to the framework document produced, in february 2003, by the greek government, because it was a greek initiative. i was the rapporteur for this parliament on the framework document, and the greek government was very anxious to get it through during its presidency in the first half of last year. the process is far from its beginning; in fact, this time last year we were hoping it was near its end. some governments – perhaps the italians, the irish, and certainly some of the scandinavian ones – were putting a spanner in the works and stalling on this. my report was adopted by 420 votes to nil in the european parliament. are you aware of that report on trafficking in human organs? have you read it? mr coelho referred to it earlier on. certainly, my report would answer some of the problems that you raised. i could tell you a great deal about this situation – over 1000 european union citizens a year, allegedly, going to poorer countries in the world to seek human organs, whether it be india, pakistan, albania or some of the other countries that have been referred to. there is much information already in the market; we are not starting from scratch. what chance is there of real progress? indeed, what point is there in this debate? what is the research that has gone into your statement, if you have not taken account of all that has gone through this parliament already, if you have not read in depth the work that has been done and the reports that have gone through this parliament, in consultation with the commission and other governments? the danger is that all the good work and good intentions that colleagues have spoken about here will come to nothing if presidency after presidency does not build on what has happened already.
madam president, although i support the first four amendments, i reject amendment no 5. i believe that amendment was originally lost in committee but has been re-tabled. my reason for rejecting the amendment is quite simply that it undermines the principle of relative stability. that principle is at the heart of the scottish and british position on fisheries policy and, i believe, that of other northern states. any measures which threaten this principle, or put it at risk, i cannot support. the concept of relative stability is vital to the scottish fleet, as it guarantees historical rights, and amendment no 5 puts that at risk. amendment no 5 also transfers competence to the commission over quota swaps, which, i believe, is against the basic cfp regulation. competence should rest with the member state, allowing new entrants to existing fisheries, leading to pressures to reallocate currently guaranteed quota shares. it also ignores the basic differences between southern fisheries agreements, where fishing licences are at stake, and northern agreements where quotas are at stake. i find it interesting that some people want the commission to have more responsibility over fisheries, yet when it comes to certain proposals over which the commission has responsibility, they want to reject it outright. amendment no 5 is dangerous to northern fishing interests, it goes against the cfp regulation and risks reducing the amount of greenland quotas that can be used in exchange for quotas for norway on which the united kingdom industry relies heavily. i am sorry to disagree with the rapporteur on this occasion.
madam president, i note that commissioner fischler is unable to be with us here today. i hope that is because he is extremely busy trying to remedy the problems that have been inflicted upon scotland by the december fisheries council in brussels. on the subject of greenland, i am sure that many scots in fishing communities these days would look enviously towards greenland because it is outwith the cfp. however, while in scotland we are still stuck with the cfp, it is absolutely essential that the founding principle of relative stability is not violated in any way whatsoever. this report, and its proposal that quotas should be reallocated to different member states, and reallocated by the commission, is totally unacceptable. it is a very dangerous precedent that could, and would, be used to undermine relative stability. it is not helpful that in december 2002 the uk government and the scottish labour and liberal government supported reform of the cfp giving equal access to waters and resources. if commissioner fischler had been here i would have asked him to comment on how relative stability can live with equal access to waters and resources. the two are not compatible, and i just hope that we can get out of the cfp before relative stability is reviewed or revoked.
madam president, i had better be careful what i say about mrs miguélez ramos, in case she now becomes the fisheries minister in madrid; so i will be nice to her from now on. we in the committee on fisheries recently had presentations from an eminent scientist, dr chris reid from the sir alistair hardy foundation at plymouth university. he was explaining to the committee on fisheries that global warming, which has caused a rise in the temperature of the north sea by a significant amount over the last 20 years, has driven the plankton on which the cod feed northwards. it is not surprising, then, that we are witnessing a collapse in cod stocks in the north sea which has led to the crisis that the scottish fleet in particular is now confronting, and to the cod recovery plan that the commission has implemented. nevertheless, when you look at the table of proposed fishing opportunities under the modified fourth protocol for the greenland agreement, you see a reduction in fishing opportunities; a dramatic reduction in cod for a start, which perhaps gives some question to the science on which dr chris reid was informing our committee. it at least indicates that in greenland waters we do not have the vast abundance of fish that was once indicated. the good thing about this modification to the fourth protocol is that at least now we have no paper fish: we are paying for genuine fishing opportunities. we are relating the money that we pay from the european union to the actual reality of the fishing opportunities that are there. if such fishing opportunities exist, the people who most require to benefit from those opportunities are the beleaguered fleet operating at present in the north sea. for that reason regrettably i have to say, adding my voice and echoing what my colleagues have said this afternoon, that i agree that we cannot support amendment no 5. not only does that undermine the principle of relative stability, as mrs stihler and mr hudghton have eloquently explained, but it would also transfer those potential fishing opportunities away from the north sea fleet and give them to fishing fleets outwith the north sea, which would not be acceptable to the fishermen in the uk.
mr president, i would like to thank mr coelho for his work in bringing this report before parliament. i am sure that, like me, he is deeply impressed with the vast amount of support he has received from his colleagues in the ppe-de group and that side of the house in the list of speakers before us tonight. notwithstanding that, this is an important issue. he has told us of the 1.2 million vehicles stolen in the european union. clearly, in every country there is a percentage of criminals who do not abide by laws and regulations. presumably – and he may know better than i – these thieves have differing motives for their crimes. we must remember that a fraction – albeit a very small one – of these car thieves have very serious ulterior motives. whether they are involved in illegal drugs, the supplying of illegal weapons or international terrorism, these are international issues which cross european borders. colleagues have expressed worries about data protection and concerns as to whether there are sufficiently robust safeguards contained in the schengen agreement. from the united kingdom's point of view, it means that there will now be access to international data that will help in the fight against international cross-border crime, which we all take very seriously. there are also those who are concerned about the idea of direct access to the data and the question as to whether there are sufficient guarantees for the protection of the data and the protection of citizens, and whether we are setting a dangerous precedent here. i share and understand those concerns. nevertheless, as responsible citizens and elected representatives of the people, we need to do what we can in the fight against serious crime. the theft of vehicles is of course very important, but it is what it leads on to and all other aspects connected with it that must focus our attention.
mr president, my congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur. first of all, no-one here this evening should claim that budgetisation is a silver bullet for the acp for the delivery of the edf. however, at the outset we should say that budgetisation would mean that we would no longer stash away hundreds of millions of euro, as has happened under the edf – money meant for countries which for various reasons were not efficient spenders. it is the case that we should not underestimate, as mrs sandbæk has said, the acp's concerns, but it is wrong for mrs sandbæk to say that there is no dialogue on budgetisation. it is happening, the acp are preparing documents and there is clear discussion going on. for some of the issues that have been raised, guarantees must be offered that resource levels for the acp will be maintained and increased, and that means a five-year financial framework has to be jointly agreed with the acp. we can fairly assume now that there is agreement between parliament, the commission and the acp that there has to be ring-fencing over a five-year financial framework. the suggestion i made some time ago that we should have a sub-heading has not found favour. we might still choose to push that with the commission, but certainly ring-fencing is something that is agreed. i believe that as things stand the acp can now hold its own in the budgets on the basis that it is by no means the worst-performing region that we deal with under external relations. it is quite condescending to presume or to suggest that the acp could not manage that relationship under the budgets. concerns are raised about multiannual funding of projects. currently under the budget the so-called sunset clause applies and there will undoubtedly be pressure on the acp to complete over a three-year timescale. but i personally have no difficulty with a three-year timescale. very often i have been more worried than i like to say about projects which have ceased to be effective, which needed to be terminated and closed down, so a three-year period is something that we can work with quite easily. the acp is concerned about how co-management will be effective and about the role of the naos. it seems to me that the main priority for the acp is not just about how they maintain administration of acp aid, but how they maintain ownership of their own priorities and their own development strategies. there should be no fundamental problem with the commission delegation signing contracts – why should that be a problem, because that would certainly speed up the process? i have seen far too many naos drowning under tenders and contracts. far better for them to have the wherewithal to deal with development priorities. finally, the principles of partnership are at the heart of the cotonou agreement. we want the acp to be the centre of the dialogue and, as others have said, the joint parliamentary assembly has an important role to play and assists us in focusing the commission's mind on the views of the acp and of acp parliamentarians.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. today's debate is a very good opportunity to take stock of the state of reform efforts in turkey. i would like to begin by thanking mr oostlander very warmly for a balanced and knowledgeable report which i can follow to a large extent. we can see that in recent years the turkish government has very firmly launched the transformation of turkey towards full democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and minority rights. i believe that, in view of the recent election results in turkey last sunday, it is fair to say that this course of reform has firm roots in turkish society. we should be glad of this, because without the european union this process would not have started. the helsinki strategy has given turkey a clear perspective. the conditions for the realisation of turkey's membership option are clearly and unequivocally defined. turkey, like all the other candidate countries, is subject to the copenhagen criteria in full and unchanged. this has brought clarity to our relations with turkey, and the accession partnerships we have developed as a tool for cooperation have proved to be extremely effective in moving the reform process forward. we have appreciated in the progress reports the extent and importance of what has been achieved, but we have also repeatedly and clearly addressed shortcomings and weaknesses. turkey has introduced new legislation in the course of reforms to improve human rights, strengthen protection against torture and ill-treatment, expand freedom of expression and the press, strengthen freedom of association and assembly and the right to demonstrate, expand cultural rights, strengthen gender equality, consolidate democracy and change military-civilian relations. turkey has also signed several key international conventions. these are clear signs that turkey is on the path of change. this is particularly evident in the changing political climate in turkey. civil society in turkey is getting stronger. it is better organised, and non-governmental organisations are consulted when legislation is being drawn up, such as the new criminal code. the reform process has brought a spirit of openness and freedom into the public debate in turkey. questions such as the role of the military in politics, the question of the kurdish language, the practice of torture and ill-treatment, and the role of women in society are now being discussed freely. when i started this work with turkey four years ago, i was not even allowed to use the word "kurdish" in conversation with the turkish government. this is just to give a small example. a public debate is under way on the question of equipping turkey with a modern constitution which embodies the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. this new situation in turkey is a success of our policy of 'zero tolerance' when it comes to democracy, the rule of law and human and minority rights. that is why we must remember where we see weaknesses and shortcomings. the commission had pointed out a number of areas, which i will mention briefly again: strengthening the independence and functioning of the judiciary, the overall framework for the exercise of fundamental freedoms, which must be clarified so that all the vestiges of the authoritarian legacy of the past disappear. it is also about the reconciliation of civil and military forces, the situation of the internally displaced in the south-east of the country and their return to their villages. i think it is also particularly concerned with the question of religious freedom. but changes in the legal and regulatory environment are not enough. we want to see practical application, not just in a particular case, but systematically and effectively. recently, progress has been made. i must say, however, that we are receiving reports here again and again which show us that the reform process is being hesitantly accepted by the turkish administration. i therefore urge the turkish government to do everything it can to achieve implementation. i would like to refer in this context to the case of leyla zana, which is an example of the fact that the spirit of reform has not yet been internalized by all the organs of the executive and legislative branches of the country. this procedure does not appear to be in accordance with the basic principles of the presumption of innocence and respect for the rights of the defence. i have just returned from switzerland from the negotiations on the final settlement of the cyprus question, which were concluded early this morning, and i should like to take this opportunity to inform the european parliament, as the first institution, of the situation. as you know, it has always been and is our preference to welcome a united cyprus as a member on 1 may. we have come very, very close to this goal during the days in switzerland, and the process has not failed in any way. the two options that were envisaged from the outset were either the signing of an agreement in switzerland or the submission of a final plan by the secretary-general of the united nations, which will then be decided by the two communities in a democratic referendum in cyprus on 24 april. the second option was chosen after it became clear that not all the parties were in a position to sign an agreement. but i have to say clearly that there have been remarkable convergences, and i think we have now reached a point where strong political leadership is needed. i would like to appeal to the greek and turkish cypriot leaders to do everything now to convince the people of the island that this plan is the best and most balanced solution that can be achieved. the alternative is not this plan or another. the alternative is this plan or no solution at all. i do not think that we will have another opportunity to discuss this matter any time soon. the european union's demands are fully taken into account in the proposal of the un secretary-general, whose efforts must be noted with the utmost respect. the new state, the new cyprus, which is to be created here, will be a country that can speak with one voice, that can behave properly in international forums without blocking. it will be a country with structures strong enough to implement community law and based on the principles on which the european union is founded. as regards the necessary adaptations of the kofi annan proposal to community law, there is agreement that these adaptations will be made without any permanent derogations from the acquis. it is the great common objective of all the institutions that we no longer want to have permanent exceptions to the acquis communautaire. we have achieved that too. i therefore think it would be good if the european parliament too made its will very clear, so that the political parties and forces involved would recognize the responsibility to accept the offer now on the table, which was the result of very careful, very painstaking and very understanding discussions. i repeat, it is wrong to say that the process has failed. it is true that a second option, which was envisaged from the outset, has proved to be the best possible one. we shall now work to implement this second option. turning to turkey, which has played a very constructive and cooperative role in these negotiations in switzerland, and which i would like to expressly commend, i would just like to say that at the end of the year it will be decided whether turkey fulfils the decisive political criteria of copenhagen. in this case, as the copenhagen european council unanimously decided in december 2002, accession negotiations should be opened without delay. the commission will present its report on this in the autumn, and it will be fair and objective, as all previous reports have been. the report by mr oostlander shows that the process of modernising turkey's political system and bringing it up to eu standards is well under way. the european parliament has always played an important role in reminding turkey of its obligations as a democratic state with regard to respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. in the phase ahead, much now depends on turkey's own ability to demonstrate that it fulfils the political criteria of copenhagen not only legally but also in practice. these criteria were not invented for turkey, but they apply generally and in the same way to all the candidates we have had so far and all those who will come. i can assure you that the commission will present a thorough, objective and fair analysis in its report in the autumn, as we have done in previous years. (applause from the centre)
mr president, the turkish government has moved at astonishing speed to fulfil the european union's political criteria so that the right decision can be taken in december for accession negotiations to be opened. we should recognise this and congratulate the turkish authorities. in a very difficult international situation and in spite of terrorist atrocities in istanbul, there has been a firm commitment to domestic change. yet some might think that every time turkey makes progress in a particular direction, the goalposts for european union membership are moved. in its report a year ago, parliament sent out an unduly negative message to turkey and failed to recognise the scale of positive developments that had taken place in the preceding 12 months. this year's report is more balanced, but it still sends a lukewarm message. a number of the amendments tabled seek to reverse the decisions firstly of the 1997 luxembourg european council confirming that turkey will be judged on the basis of the same criteria as the other applicant states, and secondly of the helsinki european council in 1999, which recognised turkey's status as a fully-fledged candidate country. it is no longer right to speak of turkey's possible accession to the european union. turkey's destiny is clear: in due course it will be a member. i hope, however, that by that time and by the time many of the young people in the public gallery here – including young people from st martin's school in brentwood, in my constituency – are firmly established in their professions, the european union itself will have moved away from its obsession with political integration, into a somewhat looser community of nation states. many of us are working with that in mind. the cyprus question has been quite correctly mentioned. this was made a factor in turkey's own eu candidacy – some might think wrongly so. however, all being well, what was a negative factor will soon have the reverse effect. last night the secretary-general of the united nations put forward his final plan for overcoming the divisions of cyprus. for too long international opinion has been distorted on this issue and the turkish cypriots have not had a fair hearing. the turkish authorities in particular have worked hard to obtain a just settlement that offers the prospect of peace and security. i believe that what is now on the table will be welcomed by the people of cyprus and i hope that they will give a positive vote in the referendum on 24 april. finally, there is much to be done to bring about reform in turkey, in particular in terms of human rights. however, much of what is being achieved could be thrown into reverse if a negative decision is taken in december. mr oostlander's message is still profoundly negative. i want to send a signal of positive encouragement.
mr president, the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party warmly welcomes the plan crafted by kofi annan yesterday in switzerland. i congratulate commissioner verheugen and his team because they have played a key part in brokering the package. it is right and proper that the commission and the council have been proactive in seeking to apply the membership terms across the complete island of cyprus. it is not too late for this parliament to become more supportive of a settlement of the dispute than it has been in the past. i would like to ask all the political forces represented in this parliament to campaign for a positive vote in the referendum. many cypriots require support to catch the spirit of europe and to look forward with more self-assurance to being a reunited community. turkey deserves our thanks for making such a vital contribution to the settlement. these events and our gratitude are not fully reflected in the oostlander report, but it will certainly inform parliament's decision, as we move towards december and the critical decision to open accession negotiations. rightly we are resisting the pre-emption of that decision today. many things will change between now and december: inside the union we will have reached an igc settlement that will fully prepare us for further accessions; in turkey the akp administration will have consolidated its legitimacy and a new reform package will have progressed through parliament; social and economic circumstances will have improved and advances will hopefully have been made in the practical implementation of reforms; and turkey will have continued improving its relations with its neighbours. the quiet turkish revolution will persist, and we in the liberal family will see the bigger picture and treat turkey fairly and recognise what a contribution turkey can make to the future of europe.
mr president, i welcome this timely report by mr oostlander. it contains a number of valuable recommendations. on monday i returned from turkey, where, with other politicians and trade unionists, i had the opportunity to observe the local elections. paragraph 1 of the recommendations of this report refers to the 'oft-stated commitment' by the turkish authorities 'to democracy and europe'. i cannot share the same confidence. whilst seeking to observe elections in the primary school of vali unal erkan in diyarbakir, we were shouted at, threateningly, by the local chief of police and prevented from entering the polling station. this was not an isolated incident. in polling stations in other parts of the country, members of the governing turkish party were standing by, watching ballot papers being filled in by kurdish electors. the military were present outside many polling stations within the kurdish area. speakers of the kurdish language – spoken by 20 million people in turkey – continue to face persecution. kurdish-medium schools are banned, the only concession being the belated effort now to allow a few schoolrooms to be open to teach kurdish as a foreign language for a few hours a week. how can we then say, in paragraph 8, that we have confidence that the akp government will safeguard democratic values? as the report emphasises, the prohibition of political parties such as hadep/dehap continues, which is why i would urge colleagues to support amendment no 11 by mr lagendijk on the crucial issue of abolishing the 10% threshold for political parties. until these fundamental matters are addressed and the turkish government respects our own charter of fundamental rights, many of us will have grave misgivings before supporting their accession to the european union.
madam president, i join with others in thanking the rapporteur for giving us an excellent basis for our debate on this very sensitive subject this morning. i would also like to thank commissioner verheugen for having come from switzerland late yesterday evening to inform us of the situation regarding the talks with cyprus, which is intimately linked with our debate this morning. two weeks ago i attended the eu-cyprus joint parliamentary committee, and while there was little optimism, there was a real desire for the two communities to be united on 1 may. we hope very much that this will take place. on turkish accession to the union, mr verheugen gave us a very detailed analysis of the political and economic reforms that have been made. i welcome, as others have, his belief that a clear objective assessment should be made on the basis of the copenhagen criteria. i have a copy of the copenhagen criteria of 21-22 june 1993 in front of me. it states that: 'membership requires that the candidate country has achieved stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy as well as the capacity to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the union.' however, then it states: 'the union's capacity to absorb new members, while maintaining the momentum of european integration, is also an important consideration in the general interest of both the union and the candidate countries.' much has been said in this debate about the great progress turkey is making, but very little has been said about the union's capacity to absorb a country of the size and nature of turkey. therefore, we need now to look not only at turkey's ability to join the union, but also at our ability to absorb it.when coming to the question of the big picture – which mr duff mentioned – many in my political group believe that this involves the ability of the union to absorb turkey on the one side and the turkish ability to meet those criteria on the other. we believe, therefore, that there should be a fundamental assessment of the institutional capacity of the union to absorb turkey and that this should be part of the commission's report in october. so we should have the courage to look at the situation in a very clear and reasonable manner. therefore, with 25 member states from 1 may, 21 languages, no post-2006 financial perspective in view until 2005 at the earliest, and doubts about whether a constitutional treaty will be agreed and ratified, the most sensible thing would be to say that there is real uncertainty in the union's current political situation, and to be extremely cautious before giving turkey the green light at this stage.
mr president, last night the working group of parliament set up by the conference of presidents voted very narrowly to send two contradictory reports to the conference of presidents on the issue of eu funding to the palestinian authority. can i please ask the conference of presidents to act on these reports? i would also demand a full debate in plenary before the commission and council to draw some conclusions from these reports.
chairman of the committee on fisheries– mr president, i listened carefully to the commissioner. our committee feels that this was not a good proposal, we had repeated visits from and consultation with the sector, particularly from italy and france, where leaders of the fisheries sector explained that the commission proposal would have destroyed their jobs and would have done little to save fish stocks. i would appeal to the commission in these circumstances to think again. we are going into the election period and the commission would have an ideal opportunity to conduct further consultations with the sector throughout the mediterranean basin, and come back in the new mandate with a reworked, revised proposal, which this house may then find acceptable. it should not endeavour to send the proposal back to our committee, because under the rules of procedure, we would then be required to deal with it within a period of two months. clearly, it is impossible for us to comply with those rules, given that the mandate is coming to an end.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we do not doubt the ability of stavros dimas as commissioner for employment and social affairs, but we cannot take part in the confirmation of the appointment of the whole commission, which we have to do here, and that is why we have abstained.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. nevertheless, we believe that the eu has already sidelined these bodies in terms of fisheries management by not providing them with sufficient support and insisting that their role is purely advisory. we fear that meaningful participation by those involved will therefore be limited and that brussels will continue to make all management decisions. this is not acceptable and it will not solve the problems that have resulted from the failure of the common fisheries policy. although we regard the setting up of the advisory councils as a small step in the right direction, we still firmly believe that the eu must withdraw from the cfp and bring management under local and national control, because this is the only way to ensure the future of the eu's fishing sector and fish stocks.
mr president, on a point of order, there was no announcement just now, but as the written declaration on the rights of deaf-blind people has reached the required number of signatures, namely, 320, i would just like to thank everyone here for signing that resolution, of which i was co-author. it is great news for deaf-blind people. we are not asking for more rights for deaf-blind people in the european union, but for the same rights as other european citizens have.
mr president, on behalf of the eldr group i would like to congratulate the commission, and commissioner bolkestein in particular, on his efforts to try to reach agreement with the united states on such a difficult matter. my group regrets that he has not been more successful in persuading the united states to respect our concerns about data privacy. my group cannot agree on the choice of legal basis. while, as mr bolkestein says, the agreement does not formally amend our data protection directive, it clearly amends the law as it applies to european community citizens by making us subject to us law in this area, and the absence of protection in us law is precisely our concern. there is a huge democratic deficit when the commission comes forward with a proposal like this and does not give either the european parliament or national parliaments the chance to say yes or no. now, as mr bolkestein informs us, that the information being passed to the united states' authorities may be passed on to third country authorities, we should be seriously concerned. there have been three debates and votes in this house on the matter. three committees have examined it and all recommended a referral to the court of justice. my group does not seek a dispute with the commission. we have asked the commission to withdraw this proposal and to try to negotiate with the americans and present to us and the us congress a full-blown international agreement to cover these issues so that we can effectively fight terrorism together while respecting our commitments to data privacy. we would prefer the commission to do that, but if the commission cannot do it, perhaps at least at its meeting tomorrow the commission could agree to take the initiative in referring the matter to the court of justice to decide whether there is adequacy.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
- second report (a5-0224/2004) by mr wuermeling, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the member states relating to consumer credit (com (2002) 443 - c5-0191/2004 - 2002/0222 (cod)) and report (a5-0188/2004) by mr ghilardotti, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (the regulation on consumer protection cooperation) (com (2003) 443 - c5-0335/2003 - 2003/0162 (cod))
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i would like to say how pleased we are that mrs ghilardotti has recovered and is with us today. this is a debate about people and our concerns for them. i would like to say, on behalf of the committee on the environment, that we very much support what the rapporteur has said on unfair commercial practices, that is, that the principle of the vulnerable consumer must be accepted and recognised, that we must take into account disparities between national protection rules, that we must insist on a double legal basis and that the principle of optimum harmonisation should hold good for all three directives. in my remaining seconds i would just say that i am very grateful indeed to the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, on the issue of enforcement for accepting that each state should be allowed to decide how the regulation should be implemented by the public authorities, but according to amendment no 76 it will be implemented by public authorities in alliance with, but not supplanted by, other public interests and by ngos. this is a good day for consumers and, despite the rather stunted debate we have had, we should shout that fact from the rooftops.
mr president, i would like to start from a local perspective. last friday i visited blantyre in my constituency to talk to an alliance of credit unions in that part of scotland. as the commissioner will know very well, credit unions in some parts of the union provide cheap and affordable types of safe credit to consumers through voluntary organisations carrying out voluntary effort in a non-profit way. they were very concerned early on in the process that they may be caught in some of the technicality of this directive. i am extremely grateful to mr wuermeling for the way in which, in amendments nos 4 and 62, he has sought to create an exemption for that kind of activity. it is really very important and my constituents were very grateful to learn just how much had been done in that respect. while there may be still issues among us about the exact balance between the consumer and the lender contained in the wuermeling report, we are all agreed that it is vitally important to make safe the internal market so that there can be much wider trade, but not at the cost of unfairness to consumers. i congratulate him genuinely on the work he has done. while we will be supporting some amendments against him tomorrow, it will not be at the cost of backing the general project. the same goes for mrs gebhardt's proposal. we are talking about consumer rights. no rights without remedies is a good old slogan and i think that the point of the new regulation of which the commissioner and mrs gebhardt have spoken is very much to secure that there are adequate and forceful remedies for rights that we all support. likewise, if i may say to mrs ghilardotti, the idea that we should begin to develop a jurist prudence of fair-trading in the european union is a grand one. this will be done, of course, in a negative sense by generating a general duty not to trade unfairly. i congratulate mrs ghilardotti for all the work she has done. there may be one or two points of disagreement in the vote tomorrow, but the point is that we are all piloting the boat in the same direction.
mr president, research carried out in the uk on consumer credit awareness has demonstrated very clearly that consumers need clear, consistent information to be able to make informed comparisons of the products on offer. it is true that, owing to innovation and evolution, many of today's products offer the consumer more choice and flexibility, but many are difficult for consumers to understand: 56% of consumers in the uk did not understand the terms used in credit agreements, 77% find the language in advertising confusing and while 68% are aware that lenders do not calculate apr in the same way, they do not know how the system works and find it difficult to price one loan against another, which makes it difficult for them to shop around for the best deals. more importantly, it also means that credit providers are under less pressure to keep their prices and offers competitive. if this is the case in just one member state, imagine what the situation is like across 25. this is why the directive must provide maximum levels of consumer protection as regards advertising, information and rules on the calculation of apr and a high level of consumer protection and redress. i would like to pinpoint two areas that the commission should look at more seriously. firstly, joint and several liability. in the uk, section 75 of the consumer credit act provides for remedies and redress. i understand what the commissioner is saying: member states can go further. however, i do not want this directive to be used as an excuse for credit providers to opt out of the very high consumer protection that is already offered in other member states. cooperatives and credit unions were also mentioned. i am delighted that the rapporteur has taken on board the amendment drafted by mr crowley and myself. it is true that credit unions provide a very important service in that they not only offer affordable loans, but also help the poorer elements of the community – the deprived and people on low income – to stay out of the clutches of loan sharks. i fear that if the regulations proposed in this directive were to be applied those consumers in poorer areas would end up with no credit unions and no option but to turn to loan sharks. the pse voting list tomorrow will reflect our desire not only to see the opening-up of a consumer credit market in this area but also to achieve the highest possible level of consumer protection for consumers right across europe.
mr president, it seems to me that this joint debate tonight is perhaps a fitting finale to the work of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in this mandate. at the beginning of the mandate we also thought that with the advent of the euro and e-commerce these would deliver a double boost to europe's economy and the internal market. sadly the realities have perhaps been more disappointing, particularly with regard to the participation of consumers in cross-border transactions. there was an interesting report from the european consumer centres who are very much at the sharp end. this report was delivered on european consumer day this year. of 114 cross-border transactions only 75 actually resulted in a delivery. there were problems with payment and problems with refunds. this is hardly the safe, well-functioning market that we had in mind to create, nor have we got the level of confidence that we really need. it seems that in various complimentary ways these three measures will help to improve matters. the unfair commercial practices legislation should create that high level of consumer protection across the board. with the measures it contains by way of codes to help with alternative dispute resolution, combined with proper enforcement through the enforcement directive, perhaps we will get the access to justice across the market that there ought to be for consumers. lastly, with regard to consumer credit, there should be a provision to make sure that consumers are backed up by the credit provider: this provision exists in my own country and others. this should be extended across europe; one of our amendments to this effect was adopted in committee. it is aspirational for the future to deliver the consumer confidence that we really need to make the market work.
mr president, as a number of colleagues have said as regards consumer credit, good regulation will stimulate the market, encourage consumer confidence and stimulate innovation and development across the single market. the commission's original proposal failed to do almost all these things, and mr wuermeling's report, which we warmly welcome, is a significant step in the right direction and a substantial improvement. however, as a number of colleagues have said, consumer rights have to have proper enforcement mechanisms. the other two proposals being discussed tonight have that link in common. we warmly welcome mrs gebhardt's to achieve a compromise, which we will support because it is very important. we have also made substantial progress in developing a workable proposal on the issue of unfair commercial practices, where enforcement is the key. there is no point in having new rights for consumers unless they can be enforced. companies need to know where they stand in relation to their national legislation and they also need to be encouraged to adopt best practice through codes of conduct. we have moved substantially in that direction. the important proposal of mutual recognition is also absolutely essential to making everything work successfully. in conclusion, this package is good for consumers and the internal market, and we will strongly support all three proposals.
commission. mr president, i am very happy to have the opportunity to discuss this proposal with you and i would like to thank the rapporteurs – mrs redondo jiménez in the committee on agriculture and rural development and mr sturdy in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy – for the time and effort they have put into forging agreements on the text. this proposal concerns the setting of mrls: maximum residue levels for pesticides in food and feed. it is a delicate subject, since i do not know of anybody who actively wishes to have pesticides residues in their food. however, in modern agriculture they are an unavoidable by-product of agricultural production methods. our duty here is to set out a legal and administrative framework whereby consumers are protected from unacceptable levels of residues whilst at the same time permitting trade in agricultural commodities. it is important to note that this legislation is not designed to regulate the use of pesticides and i do not wish to enter into discussions on the broader subject of pesticide use here today. that is covered by council directive 91/414/eec on the marketing and use of pesticides, on which the commission will be bringing forward amendment proposals at the end of this year. let us look, rather, at the proposal before us. this proposal has several objectives. first, it aims to simplify. it went through a slim exercise with stakeholders in 2000 and 2001, and it consolidates and replaces four existing directives and replaces them with a single regulation. second, it aims to achieve, at a stroke, harmonisation of mrls across the community. we have been setting mrls at community level since 1976, and have still not even reached the halfway stage. this means that for most substances and commodities, 15 and soon 25 different national sets of rules apply. this is hardly compatible with the single market. by introducing the possibility of temporary community mrls, we can harmonise everything in a short time, pending the outcomes of evaluations of active substances under directive 91/414/eec. third, we will introduce a role for the european food safety authority in the risk assessment of mrls. fourth, we will introduce clear and transparent procedures for all interested parties in the setting or modification of mrls. fifth, by introducing the concept of a default 'zero tolerance' mrl, we propose a solution for residues of the 400 substances we have already taken off the market, of which we do not want to see any residues in food. some of these are unacceptable substances; many are substances which industry did not want to support in the 91/414/eec evaluation programme and for which we have no information one way or the other. finally, we aim to strengthen provisions on monitoring and control measures. these are the main objectives covered by the proposal, which i hope can enter into force by 2006, 30 years after our first efforts in this area, during which we have seen major changes in science, in trade, in politics and in consumer protection. i commend this proposal to you as a major advance in consumer protection and i look forward to the forthcoming discussion.
rapporteur. – mr president, the commissioner has beaten me to it and said virtually everything i had planned to say. he and i are very much in agreement on this matter. before i start, i wish to add to what the commissioner said about the food safety authority, which is of fundamental importance. it is a plea to this parliament and to the commission and everyone concerned that there should be sufficient funding to ensure that the food safety authority can do its job. the committee felt very strongly about that. i fully welcome the proposals on harmonisation of maximum residue levels in foodstuffs throughout the european union. for too long there have been variations from country to country. as the commissioner said, it is very important that a product consumed in one country should be just as safe in another country. it is to this end that i have worked closely with the commission and the council. i would also like to add my thanks to mr el khadraoui, the socialist shadow rapporteur, because we managed to table a number of compromise amendments which, with his help and help from other groups, have alleviated some of the problems, because there were a number of disagreements. as i said, my aim was to produce something that would not only lead to safety, but would also be workable and sets workable standards. as the commissioner said, i have taken a lot from directive 91/414/eec, which covers plant protection products, and i wish to add to that. i am sure that the committee will – as far as possible, as we resubmit amendments – feel that they are important for the functioning of this legislation. i said that we are resubmitting some: we are not resubmitting all the amendments that failed in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, because it was rather pointless. i will now go through the amendments we are resubmitting so that colleagues will understand why we are resubmitting them. amendments nos 74 to 78, which deal with temporary mrls, bring the legislation more into line with directive 91/414/eec. i feel certain that we have managed to do this in a way that does not compromise public health, because public health is the precise aim of this piece of legislation. amendment no 74 explains why temporary mrls are needed. producers have four years from inclusion of full product dossiers for re-registration. amendment no 77 deals with the practicalities; the four-year procedure will be used only when member states request it, and then it will depend upon them showing the necessary research on the product. this amendment fell by three votes in committee, but, if parliament were to adopt it, it would really add something to the legislation. regarding amendments resubmitted by colleagues, amendment no 67, concerning the setting of mrls, covers vulnerable groups. we are all aware that vulnerable groups need protecting, but again existing legislation covers that and therefore there is little point in agreeing on that amendment, even though i am sure my colleagues will disagree with that. at no time would parliament ever take out legislation that supported that. amendment no 69 concerns integrated pest management. there is no such thing as a set of standards on integrated pest management. there are, however, different types of farming, and therefore it would be misleading to say that it favours non-chemical methods, because agriculture is agriculture. no farmer – and i speak as a farmer – wants to use chemicals unnecessarily. i would add one last point that is of particular importance. one of the amendments tabled by mr lannoye concerns import tolerances. this is of particular importance because my brain tells me that we should not accept this amendment. my farmer's heart, however, tells me that we should, because it is a legal way of stopping imports into the european union. i shall use my common sense and recommend that we vote against mr lannoye's amendment. my final point is addressed to the commissioner: for those who have food, there are many problems; for those who do not, there is only one.
mr president, i should explain that i am the non-executive chairman of a medium-sized regional media group in the united kingdom. i will start by briefly stating what i think corporate governance will not do. it will not necessarily make companies perform better or more profitably, and it will not necessarily cut out criminal or unethical behaviour, but it will set down a series of criteria for corporate behaviour that are likely to enhance transparency, accountability and systems of business conduct, which in turn give the wider world, shareholders, stakeholders and others an idea of what is going on. that is politically essential for 20th century european capitalism, set in a social market economy. it is interesting how company law in the various member states has created companies that differ qualitatively from one other. european company law can either legislate to harmonise this, or do nothing and let the inevitable process of convergence be driven by the market, providing no particular model is discriminated against. i would add that i am conscious of some of the waspish remarks made about what happens in my country. against this background, the principle of 'comply or explain' is the right point to start from. finally, we must not forget that in the global marketplace currently being created by the world trade organization, uncompetitiveness is a certain precursor of economic failure. if we fail to grasp this essential point we shall destroy ourselves, disinherit our children and betray europe and our own countries.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on bringing together into his report the different strands of opinion that were expressed in the debate. it is significant that after much debate in committee only one additional amendment has been tabled over and above those adopted in committee. i am one of those who accepted the argument for the need for a regulation to give effect to and make binding the voluntary code on guidelines for good practice agreed at the madrid forum, and i and my group therefore support this proposal for a regulation. the rapporteur states the case very well in his explanatory statement and i can do no more than commend his analysis to colleagues and make a recommendation to adopt. we must recognise that the industry was not of one view on this matter, with the incumbent network or transmission system operators resisting change, while most of the other operators, be they upstream or downstream, strongly endorsed the underlying principle embodied in the commission proposal. this measure should assist new entrants. in order for competition to flourish and for benefits to flow from it in terms of better service to consumers, greater efficiency as regards both energy and market forces, enhanced security of supply, greater flexibility and increased innovation, there must be a clear regulatory framework. this measure takes us a long way towards genuine and full liberalisation and i congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner on their efforts in this regard.
madam president, after almost 25 years in this parliament i am standing down at the elections. this may well be my last speech in the chamber. as a former mining engineer, energy policy has been one of my prime interests, so i am happy to be making my swan-song on an energy subject. i hope that parliament will strongly support this proposal because it will play an important role in the completion of the internal energy market. its purpose is to ensure fair access to networks for all market players and a genuinely competitive market for traded gas in the eu. the third-party access guidelines in the annex have been agreed by member states, regulators, tsos and system users. it is therefore appropriate that the text of the regulation agreed in committee should be as close as possible to the guidelines agreed at the madrid forum. consultation with all actors in the industry is vital if the regulation is to be effective. that is why they must all be consulted on the establishment of further guidelines. national regulators will have a vital role to play in enforcing the guidelines at member state level, as envisaged by the gas directive. this proposed gas regulation deals with similar issues to the electricity regulation agreed by the council and parliament last year. it is appropriate that the same institutional arrangements and procedures should apply. i very much urge the house to approve this measure.
madam president, industry complains about regulation and interference from brussels. i can hardly think of legislation more likely to cause concern to some manufacturers than that which indicates in such detail how they will make their products and what minimum standards of energy they must achieve, with lots of detailed specifications still to come, appliance-by-appliance, determined by the comitology procedure and very much out of the public gaze. how do we justify interference in the private market on such a scale – interference and the setting of standards that go far beyond health and safety requirements? i believe that the potential benefits of energy-saving, of making more efficient products and of reducing carbon dioxide emissions speak for themselves. i am concerned that in an attempt to reconcile the different requirements of member states – between hot countries and cold countries – the commission may come up with compromises that set standards well below the best that can be achieved. i urge the commission to be ambitious. this is a positive move. in selling it to citizens and consumers alike, there is a simple message: by cutting energy use we can help them save money and we can all contribute to do our bit to save the planet.
madam president, i would like to focus on one specific issue. we have talked in broad terms of the importance of this report and the importance of the global effects it might have. but let us look at one small issue and how this report could affect it: let us take a look at ink-jet printer cartridges, probably one of the most widely used products in the world. the reality is that all the large manufacturers are using every trick in the book to prevent consumers getting a fair deal, at the same time undermining the need to improve energy efficiency, which is a crucial element in protecting the environment. the manufacturers need this legislation to make them do the right thing. there is big money at stake here. on average a refill cartridge can be sold for about half the price of a new product, and the consumer should have the change to reap the benefits. we need amendments in this report to ensure that those cartridges are refilled. research carried out by organisations such as the consumers' association has highlighted the kinds of tactics adopted by some of these big-name companies. for example, the installation of microchips which suggest that cartridges are empty and even in some cases stop printers working, when in fact they have plenty of ink left. this is a waste of resources and a waste of energy. surveys demonstrate quite clearly a variety of different costs of different printer operating systems, all brought about by operators using these methods which oblige the consumer to buy printer cartridges over and over again, instead of reusing and refilling. if we can build into the new eco-design legislation a requirement that cartridges must be refillable and recyclable, it will be a major step forward in both protecting the rights of the consumer and benefiting the environment.
madam president, i welcome this agreement. it is absolutely essential to ensure the workability of the emissions trading system when it starts in january 2005. i want to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done. i have seen a lot of rapporteurs and he really has done a very good job. he has secured an agreement with the council which is a practical compromise and which will reap considerable environmental rewards whilst providing for industry a great deal more certainty than the original proposal. i am happy that we have been able to retain the cap on the number of credits issued. it is a sensible solution allowing member states to monitor and control the market and make sure it is not flooded. on specific issues, i believe we have been able to persuade the council of the need for greater reflection on whether to include domestic projects. the guidelines we have laid down there are useful. as regards 'sinks' i feel we have the best possible deal: a prohibition on companies using credits from land-use projects and carbon forest sinks until at least 2008. we will find this is a very difficult thing to calculate and we need time to look at it more closely. concerning big hydro and nuclear projects, it seems disappointing if we wanted the allowances for such projects excluded permanently from the scheme, but in reality parliament has been able to ensure that the projects and the take-up within the european scheme are at least in line with kyoto and the world commission on dams and the marrakech accords. it is not really a bad result. our message to eu governments is clear: real, environmental improvement through emissions reductions must be brought about by long-term, sustainable effort at home and not by cheap, ill-advised and potentially detrimental projects in the poorer countries. member states: we will be watching you!
madam president, no sooner had agreement been reached with the council, than greenpeace, the wwf and the rspb were denouncing it as inadequate and calling on members to throw it out. some members may vote against it when the time comes, but they will probably come from amongst those who tend to put the interests of industry before those of the environment. i am not really sure whether wwf counts them amongst its friends. i took a certain malevolent delight, especially with the election approaching, in our green rapporteur having been denounced by greenpeace for his work, but personally i congratulate him. he has done a great job in keeping all sides of this house together. of course the agreement is weak, but we have to start somewhere. the reality is that we know there was resistance, even amongst some member states, towards the implementation of these measures. i am glad that the eu is still trying to lead the world on the whole issue of climate change. however, the real issue is, firstly, that we have to get some sort of agreement up and running and, secondly, that we have to move forward. i am concerned about what will happen if the kyoto protocol does not come into force. that is the key question that the commissioner is seeking to address this week with colleagues. can we persuade russia – the crucial element in the equation – to sign up to the kyoto protocol and bring it into force? i do not like having to give in to ransom demands. however, for once, it might be a price worth paying.
madam president, batteries form part of our everyday lives. in fact it is fair to say that the development of portable electric power, particularly rechargeable electric power, has revolutionised our lives. each one of us is probably carrying two or three batteries – in our phones, in our watches, in our car key fobs and maybe there are even one or two heart pacemakers in this chamber. batteries have made a contribution to safety. cordless power tools have made building sites much safer and often in the case of power failure we rely on batteries for back-up lighting or emergency power. recently i was at a nuclear power station where they have a battery the size of a building which provides the back-up power in the event of a power cut. i would like to congratulate the commission on its proposal which is balanced and in proportion to the problem. in particular, i congratulate the commission on the way it addresses the problem of waste. some countries like belgium have successfully removed batteries from the waste stream. we should take care to look at the cost of this. in belgium it costs at least twice as much to collect the batteries as the actual value of the batteries themselves. we need to have a market-led solution so that we do not find we are collecting things just for the sake of it. as with most waste issues in my country, the united kingdom's record is pathetic. when adopted, i hope that the targets set by the commission will be met and we do not repeat the situation we had with old fridges when the directive gathered dust on the shelf until it was too late to implement it in time. i also hope that the uk government will correctly fund the local authorities which are charged with the task of collecting these batteries. i support some of the amendments. in particular, my group supports the move not to set recovery targets based on an arbitrary number of grams – 160 grams for every country. such a one-size-fits-all policy would be bizarre in countries such as the baltic states where the battery market is not even half of 160 grams. to set the recovery targets based on a percentage is a much more sensible approach. however, my group will not support the amendments to article 4 with regard to the bans on heavy metal. firstly, the alternatives are not developed in every single sector. in the case of power tools in particular the alternative batteries have not performed as well and we would see tools having a much shorter life and being thrown away sooner than at present. secondly, in the united kingdom we have had a number of studies on pollution looking at landfill and incineration. although we have cadmium in the environment, the source of cadmium from batteries is not significant. if we wanted to cut back we would need to look at fossil fuels, fertilisers and the metallurgical industries. lastly, the timescale. batteries which are sold now will not come into the waste stream for more than 16 years. therefore the heavy metal ban does not solve the problem in the short term.
madam president, despite the threat of a no-confidence motion, i hope that the commissioner will not cancel her airline tickets to moscow. lobbying has been intensive and persuasive over this issue. i must admit that my views on points of detail have changed many times, but i have come to the conclusion that, while backing a closed-loop recycling system for cadmium batteries in the medium term, we should be looking in the long term for the replacement of such batteries because of their toxicity. the many exemptions i shall be supporting show that i consider this approach to be a measured and balanced one. we must be careful not to set a level of lead so low that it will effectively prohibit the use of batteries containing even trace elements of lead for important purposes, notably in hearing aids. i have no doubt that we will, in practice, be able to resolve these questions as we consider the legislation further. i should like to touch upon the issue of collection targets for portable batteries. i am deeply cynical about these. i have been lobbied by the british local government association, which wants me to support proposals for much higher targets – this from an association representing local authorities that currently only collect 12% of household waste. it all seems ridiculous. as we know, member states all too often agree to what should be legally-binding targets in the certain knowledge that the pathetically cumbersome enforcement procedures that the commission has at its disposal will mean that they never actually have to meet those targets within anything like the timescales proposed. as i have been saying for the last five years, we have to find better ways of getting ministers who sign up to these agreements to keep to their word.
rapporteur. – madam president, i regret the late hour for the debate on this topic which is actually going to affect the lives of many of our citizens, but the core group of the 'friends of regulation 1408' are still here and recognise its importance. this piece of work on the coordination – not harmonisation, as some of my colleagues would like us to believe – of social security systems has been lengthy. it started life in the previous parliament and then changed to codecision and unanimity in council in 1999. i trust that this simplification and modernisation of the much-amended regulation in the past will provide a useful and very constructive framework in a further enlarged european union. i wish to thank sincerely all the shadow rapporteurs and other members for their serious work and ultimately constructive approach to this regulation. i also want to record my thanks to the commission for its willingness to support our work with time, information and explanation. in council, too, we have seen an increasing willingness to approach this reform with some spirit, which i know was not shared by all members back in 1999 when i first met with representatives and member states in helsinki. i would remind members that council informed the chairman and members of the committee on employment and social affairs – in writing in a letter dated 31 march and indeed verbally after that – of its agreement to the amendments here proposed to the common position and to the council statement on taxation to be entered in the council minutes should agreement be reached on the adoption of the regulation. i trust that tomorrow we will confirm the position of the committee on employment and social affairs at its last meeting. as we know, the restrictions concerning this regulation have caused us some problems: the fact that tax cannot be tackled within it raises particular problems for some cross-border workers, especially as we see tax and social protection systems increasingly interlocking in some member states. the fact that we cannot build bridges between systems means that some people will still feel that free movement is not sufficiently supported and that will mean at least more work for the committee on petitions. however, mutual recognition, whether for family status or status as a person with disabilities, for example, will also continue to be an issue. we also recognise in parliament that we have not achieved the full flexibility we had hoped for with regard to access to benefits in kind for frontier workers and their families. while we realise that the fact that member states must now explicitly register in annex 3 if they do not wish to provide such a service demonstrates that this is a deviation from the norm, we view such refusals with concern. i am sure that this is an issue which will be taken up in the next parliament when we see the commission's proposals for the currently empty annexes 2, 10 and 11, and for the implementing regulation. we trust that work will progress as speedily as possible so that the full revised proposal may come into force within the next two years. however, we believe that the common position as amended in committee is a positive step forward. there has been no regression on the status quo: all persons covered by social security schemes are now included – not just paid workers. the positive steps taken for third country nationals – mrs oomen-ruijten's report – are also there and were in the original commission proposal. there is greater clarity concerning cross-border healthcare, and the european court of justice decisions on the criteria concerning medical necessity are there. the adoption of the assimilation of facts and events will be of benefit to frontier workers in particular and the number of derogations and exceptions has been reduced, despite our concern about the future development of the annexes. there are clear criteria now concerning special non-contributory cash benefits. the principle of good administration has also been introduced. this is a complex but necessary piece of work and it helps to answer the question of what the european parliament does to benefit people. despite certain reservations, which many of us in the house feel, i commend the common position, as amended, to the house and wish future rapporteurs on the subject the same degree of support and interest that has been offered to me as your rapporteur. in conclusion, in a strange sort of way, i found this challenging and interesting experience quite fun at times.
mr president, as this matter was agreed just prior to the vote i want to be quite clear about the separate vote, because the complete voting list was only available this morning. we would like to check that there is to be a separate vote on amendments nos 38 and 39 as a block and on amendments nos 80, 102, 122, 127 and 128. if that is what the rapporteur has given you, then i am happy to go along with that division.
mr president, i object on the basis that we reserve the right to vote on an amendment that allows us to have no lower threshold. this combination means that there would be a minimum threshold of 500 combining with a socialist upper threshold. we do not want a lower threshold, so we cannot accept this compromise.
mr president, amendment no 206 is not rendered redundant by the adoption of the previous amendment. therefore, we need to vote on amendment no 206.
mr president, the group has not tabled an amendment to ban doorstep selling, but rather to make it subject to conditions in terms of unsolicited negotiation of credit or doorstep selling. as it is not a ban, we should be able to vote on it.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr wuermeling, for having done a fantastic job in turning a disastrous commission proposal into something that still has some problems but is considerably improved. it is vital to remember that we must not produce a proposal that undermines access to credit. the commission's proposal would have denied the less advantaged and lower- income groups from access to credit. it would have meant a huge amount of inconvenience for consumers. for example, many consumers in europe have credit cards, and some have two, three or four. under the commission proposal they would have to resign their contracts for each of these credit cards. they would have faced a lot of red tape when their credit limit changed. they would have faced even more red tape if they wanted to be overdrawn for a day or so. if they wanted to buy a fridge or a tv on credit, they would have had to leave it in the shop for two weeks before they could take it home. there were bizarre proposals from the commission on the destruction of data that would have inhibited the law enforcement authorities in the fight against fraud and financial crime. many of these problems have been solved by our amendments, and i would appeal to the council to accept those amendments adopted today. there are still some problems with overdrafts and credit intermediaries, but parliament can claim credit for achieving significant improvements to this proposal which i hope will be accepted in the final directive when it is agreed in the next parliament.
- the next item is the report (a5-0268/2004) by mr wynn, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: 'the future is ours to build together: policy challenges and budgetary resources in the enlarged eu 2007-2013' (com (2004) 101 - c5-0089/2004 - 2004/2006 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, when i first came in and looked around i thought people were actually here for this debate, but then i suddenly realised that former commissioner barnier was about to make his speech! members have in front of them a report not just from the committee on budgets, but one that has attempted to take on board the opinions of the other committees. in doing so, we have tried to include at least three or four priorities which they consider to be paramount priorities, and then ask the commission and the council, in paragraph 31, to at least look at all the annexes to get a feel for what the other committees are trying to do. i say that because i have had a letter from one of my fellow chairmen actually complaining about this procedure, but we thought it was a fair way of proceeding and one that would give everyone a chance to have their say. the thrust of the report is not to make concrete proposals, but to lay down guidelines for the next parliament. the idea is that we in the present parliament should not do anything definitive, but should at least give an opinion how we think negotiations should proceed in the next parliament. my job as rapporteur for this report, rather than as chairman, is to defend the position of the committee on budgets. as a result, i am not here to recommend acceptance of any of the 22 amendments that we have before us, although i feel amendments nos 3 and 5 do help in the wording. i will leave such decisions to my political group. i am fascinated by the amendments from my british conservative colleagues in the name of mr bradbourn and others, especially amendments nos 17, 18 and 19. amendments nos 17 and 18 ask that there be a maximum of 1% gni for the community budget, and amendment no 19 is about renationalisation of the structural funds. as a british labour member i very much welcome the approach of my conservative colleagues, who are now endorsing gordon brown's proposals. i am sure this will please him! i am still confused about amendments nos 20 and 21, but will speak to mr bradbourn about those later. however, whilst i may welcome them as a british labour member, i am here not as a british labour member but as a rapporteur for the committee on budgets, and cannot support them. as i said, amendments nos 17 and 18 asked for a maximum 1% gni for own resources. my preference is for the existing paragraph 17, which states that we should evaluate our political priorities, then their needs, and only then should parliament decide on what the level of own resources should be. when president prodi first presented the commission's proposals i made the point that between 1988 and 2002, under the existing financial perspective, the amount of payments had indeed averaged out at 1% of gnp. of course, if the average is 1% there will have been times when that 1% was exceeded. if you look at paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 of the report, it actually says that we should be looking at the priorities and then deciding what that average overall should be. it could well be that after making the evaluation and looking at the political priorities we end up with a figure of 1% of gni. paragraph 19 would seem to indicate a higher figure, but looking at this sensibly and pragmatically, we could get any figure and 1% cannot be ruled out. however, that is a decision not for this parliament, but for the new one, as is the timeframe. the reason for this is to ensure the involvement of the new members from the ten new member states, along with the ten new commissioners. as i said earlier, this report does not aim to take decisions, but to enable the new parliament to do so while also, along with the new commission and the council, to at least take note of what we are saying. to repeat one other point i made in the first debate on this issue, i would remind the council that the interinstitutional agreement is only an interinstitutional agreement when the institutions keep to it between themselves. in other words, parliament is a key player in this. it is not a bit-part player in the process. it is a major player and i hope the other institutions recognise that. this is probably the last time i will address this parliament as chairman of the committee on budgets. i would like to say what a great privilege and what a great job it has been. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr wynn on an excellent report. as the development committee's draftsman, i would like to stress that our committee's most important condition with regard to the financial perspectives, that of reaching the millennium development goals – the most prominent of which is to halve world poverty by 2015 – has to remain one of the principal objectives of the category for external action. money allocated to poverty eradication must be safeguarded from being transferred to meet the community's other objectives. therefore clear distinction has to be made between those areas of external action which have different characteristics: pre-action aid, enhanced cooperation development, cooperation humanitarian aid, relations with acp countries, peace and security and, finally, reserves. new aid and development assistance is almost invisible. the other agencies we use to deliver our money, aid and assistance take the public credit for our taxpayers' endeavours. this must change: it must stop and stop quickly. the plan to the budgetise the european development fund must not result in a reduction in the overall development finance for acp countries. these funds must be focused by means of sub-headings, or ring-fenced in their financial perspectives. i must reiterate that we must keep poverty eradication at the forefront of our development assistance.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on this report. i seem to remember saying a few weeks ago that i regretted that would be the last time he spoke as chairman of the committee on budgets, and yet he is still here. who knows what will happen in our new parliament, assuming of course that we are both re-elected? this debate highlights how the eu institutions seem to rush into debates before fully preparing the ground. in the brief time available, i would like to reflect on the period in which the financial perspective has been in operation. a few of us were members of this house in the 1980s, when we had turbulent budget debates that were not over-affected by the limits imposed, and then had the financial perspectives from 1988. since then we have witnessed an enormous rush in european history, from the disintegration of the soviet union to german unification, followed by the rush to include countries from central and eastern europe, which will be complete in a few days time. we have noticed over this period that the financial perspective, as mr colom i naval pointed out in one of his working papers, is indeed somewhat rigid and requires certain changes. since we are now on the brink of central and eastern enlargement, it seems to me that this period should be one for reflection as we bring in new countries, although possibly not a united cyprus. it is slightly odd that we have had this debate without the full participation of the representatives of the central and eastern countries, when we realise there are huge problems and challenges concerning the absorption of those countries, as regards not only institutional operation but also policy making. in this debate we are looking ahead to the distant date of 2013, and although useful policy documents exist we have yet to see them. we are therefore right to call for these documents so that we can see exactly what basis has been used to assess how to ensure the european union will work for 25 countries and how to ensure that europe will become more competitive, and indeed meet its international obligations – the members of the european council take decisions on our behalf, but very rarely provide us with the requisite budgetary framework. there are therefore three points which we should include in our message to the incoming parliament and the incoming administration of the european union. firstly, there must be a coherent strategy for the european union in the years ahead so that we know what the union's priorities are to be, both internally and externally. secondly, we should avoid trying to stretch the political credibility of the union too far in taking on ambitions that the institutions themselves are incapable of handling at the present time. i refer in particular to future enlargement for a country like turkey, as things stand. lastly, we need a period of consolidation during this financial perspective period, to make the european union not only an effective operator internally and externally, but also an operator that is seen to be truly democratic and smooth-functioning. if we try to take on too many of the ambitions harboured in certain quarters, our institutions will be incapable of fulfilling them.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, we welcome the commission's approach, the broad thrust of which we fully endorse. we also thank mr hatzidakis for his excellent report. we have specific concerns relating to the european social fund under the competitiveness objective. first, the wider approach to social inclusion appears not to be supported to any substantial extent. we fear that many valuable projects will be lost. we hope that there will still be room for such projects, provided that they support the employment strategy. second, national planning of programmes could prove counterproductive to addressing regional and local circumstances and involving local stakeholders. we call on the commission to ensure genuine decentralisation in the development and implementation of programmes. third, the disappearance of the equal programme may lead to a loss of impetus and we wish accordingly to see a requirement for gender mainstreaming at all programming stages. similarly, we hope for continuing availability of innovative measures as currently allowed under article 6. finally, we look forward to structures that will allow us to address genuine areas of need wherever they may be located.
mr president, from 2000 to 2006, my member state, the uk, will have received over eur 9 billion in direct eu structural fund support, topped up with match funding and private sector support. no-one can deny the benefits funds have brought to poor communities in industrial, urban and rural areas. the hatzidakis report and the commission proposals prove that the jeremiahs who say that enlargement is bad news for uk regions have got it wrong. i want to congratulate the commission in coming forward with proposals which, in a spirit of solidarity, provide funding for those areas of the eu-15 – including the uk – that are still in need. the devil will be in the detail, of course, and we still have a long way to go to agree a new round of regional aid programmes. however, this report and these proposals indicate that our poorest regions could win twice over from enlargement, with a bigger internal market and a continuation of regional aid. labour meps have worked closely with our regional representatives, with local councils and with trade unions to identify our priorities. we welcome proposals for the convergence fund, in particular the inclusion of so-called 'statistical effect' regions, and we hope that regions being phased out will not be left high and dry, but will find a soft financial landing. we welcome the proposals to assist regional competitiveness in former objective 2 areas and we look forward to hearing more details on how this will be allocated and on the indicators used to identify those areas. i would ask the commission to further elaborate on its proposals, as requested in the hatzidakis report on state aid. it is important that we have equality in the provision of state aid for all convergence regions, including the statistical effect areas. we need a reform of state aids which enables more public private partnership activity in regeneration, particularly of urban areas, of derelict land sites and of buildings. i wish today to endorse mr hatzidakis' proposal. i hope that member states, the commission and parliament will now come up with a comprehensive budget and a regional aid package which will be a good deal for taxpayers and a good deal for our poorest regions.
mr president, i welcome the prospect of croatia's accession, not only in itself, but also, as commissioner verheugen said, as a practical demonstration of the eu's commitment to the eventual accession of other balkan countries. i should like to ask the commissioner whether he has received assurances from croatia that it will help other countries in the region qualify for eu membership. i note in commissioner patten's report on the assessment by carla del ponte that croatia is complying in full with icty and doing all it can to find general gotovina. until recently we could not be sure that such efforts were genuinely being made. is it the understanding of the commissioner that the uk and the netherlands will now ratify the stabilisation and association agreement? the uk minister for europe has now declared himself convinced of the efforts to find general gotovina. previously this was not the case and he pointed out, for instance, that general gotovina's lawyer knew how to find him, but nobody else did. this is very important, because if we do not carry on the search for general gotovina, how can we push for the capture of radavan karadzic and general mladic?
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's multilateral forum on corporate social responsibility will meet at a high level for the last time on 29 june 2004. at this meeting, it will adopt and submit to the european commission its final report on its work and conclusions. the forum's report is expected to comprise three main parts. a confirmation of the principles agreed at international and european level, an analysis of the factors that hinder and the factors that help the success of csr and a series of recommendations to address the members of the forum or the institutions of the european union and other actors on csr. the report will be based on the results of discussions and insights gained from a series of round table events held from january 2003 to march 2004 in which some 50 multilateral case studies have been analysed. as mentioned in the commission's july 2002 communication on european corporate social responsibility and in the mid-term review of the social agenda in march 2003, the commission will evaluate the forum's results and issue a new communication a few months after the forum's report. the european parliament has been involved in the multilateral forum process from the outset as an observer, with the participation of mr richard howitt. it will therefore be invited to the high-level meeting on 29 june and will receive the forum's report once it has been adopted and submitted to the commission. the new communication on corporate social responsibility will be addressed to the institutions of the european union. i therefore look forward to the continuation and fruitfulness of the dialogue on this subject.
i understand it must be difficult for the commission to give more precise answers in these final months. however, i want to make it clear that to many members of this parliament, across many different committees – i am a member of the committee on development and cooperation – this piece of work on corporate social responsibility is extremely important. we would like to see a clear timetable emerging in june, and not postponement to some vague point in the future. i am very pleased that the commissioner responsible for development has come in at this point as i wish to ask which commission department – social affairs or other – will continue to lead in this area, and how coordination will continue within the commission, because this issue cuts across many different departments there. i would also like to ensure that a range of parliamentary committees are also involved in the follow-up. this is an issue of extreme importance to members of this parliament and, if we are re-elected, we will keep pushing it forward.
the commission. first of all, with the forum, the commission has made a bet on the willingness and ability of the various parties to work together in a constructive way and develop a common approach to european csr, and of course the commission will seek to make the most of the outcomes of the forum's discussions and report. it is very positive that all the parties invited to participate in the forum have accepted the invitation and that significant progress has been made and that everyone is committed to continuing the process, as you said. the commission certainly sees the forum not as an advisory committee or as an opportunity for friendly professional discussion, but as a challenge experiment and as an excellent opportunity for the various stakeholders to develop a common approach to this issue. the aim of the forum is to provide credibility to the whole process. the commission is therefore awaiting concrete results and, furthermore, a roadmap of the actions to be taken not only by the european commission but also by the members of the forum themselves, either individually or jointly with others, a study will be presented around october 2004.
following on from the question about the timetable, i should like to make a comment. commissioner, you mentioned quite correctly that it has been helpful to have a representative from parliament and how glad you were that mr howitt could be there. i am glad that mr howitt was there for some of the time because he was rapporteur for the green paper. however, i hope that you were also glad that i was there for some of the time as rapporteur on the white paper. the intention is that i will be the parliamentary representative on 19 june, as an observer, to which i look forward. i believe that formal invitations will only be sent on 17 may, which is after parliament has risen. it would be helpful if the invitations could be officially sent earlier. it would also be helpful – and perhaps the commissioner could confirm this – if the invitations were accompanied by a draft of the proposals that will be discussed in june. i am sure that those who attend – and not just the observers – would wish to have as much notice as possible of the proposals for discussion rather than just find out what they are on the day they arrive.
the commission. first of all, i would like to say that the commission wishes to express its deep concern about the impact of the announced closure of the bombardier factories on job losses. i should like to inform you that the vice-president of the company has sent me a letter informing the commission of the restructuring plans. in the reply i sent a short while ago, i express our deep concern and reiterate the basic principles which we consider to be fundamental in the management of restructuring. restructuring can have a serious impact on the social fabric of any region, but much more so in those regions in particular where job creation potential is already low. the commission can assure the honourable member that it is using all its powers in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have various directives which seek to ensure that employees are fully involved in the decision-making process in the event of restructuring. the directive on collective redundancies, the directive on the european works council and the most recent directive on information and consultation of employees constitute the legal framework for protecting workers' rights and ensuring a level playing field. secondly, there are the structural funds, which provide substantial financial support for the economic and social transformation of regions with structural difficulties. they shall support the adaptation and modernisation of education, training and employment policies and systems, in particular with a view to increasing the adaptability and employability of workers. in addition, in 2002 the commission consulted the social partners on a text entitled 'anticipating and managing change: a dynamic approach to the social aspects of company restructuring'. this document advocated an approach to corporate restructuring that balanced the interests of firms facing change with the interests of workers at risk of losing their jobs. the commission welcomed the joint text submitted by the social partners in october 2003. restructuring is also included as a key theme in the joint work programme adopted by the social partners in november 2002. the social partners' text is based on the experience gained from a number of case studies in modern restructuring situations on issues that are vital to successful change management. we should make use of these guidelines to better respond to the challenges we face in this field. this includes: the need to explain the changes and to indicate the reasons for them; the importance of maintaining and developing the skills of workers; the importance of complementarity and synergy between the various factors when restructuring affects an entire region; the specific situation of smes and the practical aspects of restructuring management, including the importance of exploring all possible alternatives to avoid redundancies. i should like to inform you that the commission has today launched a consultation with the social partners on how the european works council, which was set up by a community directive some 10 years ago, can respond more effectively to the challenges of a changing economic and social environment. finally, we should not forget our important work on corporate social responsibility and the european monitoring centre for change. i sincerely hope that in the case of the restructuring we are dealing with today every effort has been made to limit the social impact on the region.
the commission. i am not trying to hide behind general remarks, i simply have to say and make it clear that the commission has no power to prevent or postpone the closure, which i understand has already been done. it is up to the social partners and other third parties to negotiate with the company a possible review of the closure. the commission hopes, however, that an acceptable solution can be found to mitigate the significant impact on the regions affected by this restructuring. as regards the legality or otherwise of these actions by the company, i should say that the european union legislation on these matters consists of directives which have been correctly transposed into national legislation and into the national legislation in question. it is therefore for the national authorities, including the judicial authorities, to assess whether the national legislation has been correctly and effectively applied.
the commission. it is, of course, reasonable to be concerned when factories or companies close, when workers are made redundant, because in addition to the social problems and the unemployment that is created, we also have problems of non-production of certain products, such as the specific products produced by this company, which are technologically very important and, of course, can also contribute to the technological advancement of the countries of europe. i should also like to say that bombardier has 35 factories in europe, of which a large part is closing, as it is closing 7 factories, 6 in the european union and 1 in switzerland, but in any case it still has many factories in various regions and employs several thousand people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. i think what you say demonstrates and underlines the need to make a success of the lisbon objectives. we should make our economy more competitive because only if industries and businesses are competitive can we have better technology, produce all the products you mentioned previously (whether technologically advanced or not) and have more and better jobs in the european union.
i should like to point out to the house that significantly more jobs are being lost in four plants in the united kingdom as a result of this closure than anywhere else. i am glad, therefore, to have the opportunity to ask some questions and to send our sympathies to those people involved. my questions are actually directed to mr bolkestein, and i hope you will allow him to answer them, as the issue is about how well the european rolling stock market is really operating and whether public procurement rules really are operating successfully . .. (the president interrupted the speaker)... i hope in that case that dimas will be able to pass my questions on. they are important and highly relevant to this discussion. in france, for example, there is not, according to my information, one single piece of rolling stock running on railways that is not manufactured in france, and yet in the united kingdom a large number of rolling stock units are imported from across europe. i do not mind that because the single market for rolling stock should be allowed to work. however, it is seems to me that the public procurement market is not working satisfactorily in the area of rolling stock. we should ask the commission to look at this. we should also ask you, commissioner dimas, to ask your observatory for industrial change to look at the whole scenario for employment in the railway rolling stock industry, as it is already doing, for example, in the automotive industry.
commission. the criteria that the commission takes into account for converting pilot projects into preparatory actions and then into multiannual programmes are essentially based on the evaluation of the results of the project or action, the response from the specialised sectors involved and the political will expressed by the budgetary and legislative authorities to pursue the action. a pilot project may start some three to five years before the possible adoption of a legal base, provided that the results of the pilot scheme are positive and that the preparatory action decided by the budgetary authority is successful. e-learning and daphne are examples of this process. in 2001 the commission shared with parliament the idea of proposing a preparatory action to stimulate and accelerate integration of the use of information and communication technologies in education and training, in developing synergies amongst public and private stakeholders. the results of the preparatory action were positive with regard to the opportunity and convenience of sustained support for these innovative synergy projects, and the e-learning programme was born. the daphne programme came into force in 2000, after the commission had implemented pilot and preparatory actions in 1997, 1998 and 1999, in which year a legal base was proposed and adopted. under daphne, measures were funded to support non-governmental organisations and the voluntary sector active in combating violence against children, young persons and women. the european parliament strongly supported both these programmes. as provided for in article 49 of the financial regulation, the commission will, when the preliminary draft budget for 2005 is published, also provide the budgetary authority with an assessment of the results of pilot schemes and preparatory actions entered in the budget for 2004. the same assessment was provided last year in the preliminary draft budget for 2004.
thank you, commissioner. i understand the point you are making in terms of preparatory action, but i wondered whether you could comment on whether actual budgetary provision will be covered under the action taken in the 2005 budgets. pilot schemes, as you say, are being carried out and i was interested not so much in assessments but in whether proper provision within the budgets for preparatory action will be included.
thank you for that reply, commissioner. i am very pleased that at least you have taken note of the idea. i suggest that the commission's reluctance to take any further steps and propose legislation will now encourage businesses across europe that are rather slapdash about protecting private data, as they will now be able to say that there will not be any legislation to punish them so they can easily let this slip. i fear that our exchange in the chamber now creates the need for legislation to stop lazy companies from letting private data fall into the wrong hands. do you agree?
commission. in response to the first question, the commission notes that it is settled case law that the reduction of tax revenue is not one of the grounds listed in article 46 of the treaty. it does not constitute a matter of overriding general interest which may be relied upon to justify a restriction on the freedom of establishment, or the freedom to provide services. on the honourable member's second question, the commission has indeed received a number of complaints from gambling service operators, who contest the application of existing national restrictions to cross-border services. the commission will analyse complaints in that area in view of recent rulings of the european court of justice. it will proceed with appropriate action in order to ensure that the principles provided by these rulings are respected. in addition, the commission intends to launch a study this year to collect the information required to examine the need for and scope of a possible new internal market community initiative in the field of gambling services.
i wish to thank the commissioner for a very positive reply. however, i should like to put a couple of other issues to him. firstly, would he agree that it would be desirable for the proposed directive on the internal market for services to cover gambling in this way? the issues raised by this judgment and by the complaints strike at the very heart of the issues and barriers that he is proposing to sweep away with his excellent proposal. the second issue – which he did not touch on – was the ability of governments to try and include public interest and consumer protection issues to prevent gambling operators from setting up in their jurisdiction while, at the same time, actively promoting their own state lotteries and gambling businesses. that seems to be entirely inconsistent and is also an issue that was covered by the gambelli case. i would also be interested to have his view on that aspect.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, there are no substantive points that the committee wanted to make on the substance of this debate. however, i would like to make a more general point, particularly with relation to the censure motion that will be debated tomorrow evening and the general discharge point, criticising the commission on the disgraceful way that european funds are being managed under its control. we have all been amazed to see a whole succession of whistleblowers come forward to members of this parliament complaining about the way they have been disciplined and how large amounts of public funds have been disbursed by the commission. my colleagues will certainly be voting against the discharge of the commission's budget, as we have consistently throughout this parliament, and this would certainly be my recommendation. it seems to me that electors across the eu will have no faith in any of the eu institutions – whether parliament or commission – until the terrible cases of fraud and mismanagement are firmly and severely dealt with and the people responsible in the commission – commissioners and commission staff – take responsibility for the gross mismanagement that has occurred, and resign from their positions in the commission.
mr president, expecting parliament to discharge the 2002 budget in the face of all the evidence of fraud, corruption and mismanagement endemic in the european union is akin to our being asked to accept the enron accounts as a true and correct record. the european court of auditors rejects the eu's accounts on an annual basis and has done so for the last nine years. there comes a time when we have to stop routinely nodding things through like clockwork monkeys in a tired charade of parliamentary scrutiny. the eu has no money of its own, but is spending taxpayers' money from all the member states. we have a moral duty to those taxpayers to see that their money is spent wisely, not frittered away in a seemingly endless stream of abuses that line the pockets of unscrupulous civil servants and their cronies. i ask members to set an example and vote against formal discharge. as for the eurostat affair, it is high time that mr brüner, director-general of olaf, resigned for having instigated the arrest of the investigative journalist hans-martin tillack on baseless grounds. the ombudsman accused mr brüner of maladministration in november 2003, yet he has not had the grace to resign. meanwhile, messrs franchet and byk, accused of massive fraud, have been allowed the privilege of stating their case at length to olaf. however, hans-martin tillack – innocent until proven guilty – has still not been heard by olaf. mr brüner should go!
mr president, i would like to start by saying how much i like the rapporteur for the 2002 discharge. he is a remarkably nice man and obviously a great author – an author of fiction. the committee on budgetary control's report on the discharge of the 2002 commission's accounts is probably the greatest work of fiction i have seen since i came to this parliament. i am not as well read as many other members here, but certain sections of it even have a science fiction tilt. one wonders whether one is looking into the future and talking about what is happening or going to happen in 2005, or whether we are dealing with 2002, which is the year in question. it was in early january 2002 that marta andreasen started work for the commission, and five months into 2002 that she was suspended from her role as an accounting officer for the commission. so we know that in 2002 there are five months in which there was something wrong with the commission's accounts. it makes no difference which side of this particular argument you are on – whether you think marta andreasen was completely unqualified for the task she was given, whether you think she was completely incompetent or whether you actually think she was right and tried to present a reform that was then blocked from inside the commission. the commission must have thought that christmas had come early when the rapporteur presented his report. it probably heard the reindeers' bells jingling and could not believe its luck. today a number of journalists have been following me around the parliament; something seems to happen when an election is imminent, and there is more interest in what we do and say. it is very difficult to explain to these journalists – for example the reporter from rutland radio who will reach the humble punter in oakham – why between 5% and 8% of the commission's budget goes missing through fraud, mismanagement and waste each year. how can one explain to the readers of the lincolnshire echo why it is that the accounts have been not been signed off by the european court of auditors? these are flawed accounts, there are problems in them and i certainly will not be voting for them.
mr president, i congratulate mrs boogerd-quaak on an excellent report. it is perfectly possible to be both tough on terrorism and true to the treaties that we have signed on individual freedoms such as privacy. this matter has taken a sorry course. commission bolkestein told us on 9 september that progress on the issues had been disappointing. commissioner patten has told us tonight that data transfers remain a matter of concern for the commission. the fact is that there is no real agreement between the european union and the united states on the scope of data required, on purpose limitation, on data storage periods or on the transfer of data to third countries. in proposing this amendment, the college of commissioners should be ashamed of itself. its proposals would do justice to the authors of the united kingdom's official secrets act of 1911. commissioner patten, you normally address this house in an open style, almost ad-lib. that is something we welcome. tonight you read carefully from your script; dare i say with your lips moving faster than those of a policeman giving corrupt evidence. you constructed a quasi-legal case that is no more stable than a house of cards. you can hardly be surprised that you face criticism from all sides of this house. the commissioner told us there is no reason for parliament to reject the entire agreement. the fact is that we are not even being offered the chance to do so. despite commissioner bolkestein's assurance on 9 september that the procedure would involve the european parliament's assent, as required by article 300 of the treaty, neither this parliament nor national parliaments are being given the chance to comment on this. this is a disgraceful demonstration of europe's democratic deficit. we therefore call on the commission to withdraw this agreement and to replace it with a proper international agreement. failing that we will have to refer the matter to the european court of justice. (applause)
commission. mr president, i am only sorry that we have not had opportunities on previous occasions to set out some of the arguments in greater detail. i apologise for speaking for so long at the beginning of this debate, but i would just like to respond to one point. i am now drawing to the end of a rather excessively long political career and i have got a pretty thick skin. but when somebody accuses me of behaving like the policeman presenting corrupt evidence, i have to say that i regard that as an attack on my honesty and my honour. i hope the honourable member will think pretty hard about what he said. i would like to say this to the honourable member: what if there is no agreement? what if we wait for six months until we get an opinion? we have little doubt about what an opinion would be from the european court of justice. what if? i will make one simple point. taking into account the reservations that i expressed earlier about onward transfer, if the proposed package of an adequacy finding and an international agreement is suspended, it is undoubtedly the case that some data protection authorities will have very little choice but to start ordering airlines to suspend data transfers with all the consequences for airlines and passengers that this would provoke. when that happens, who will be blamed? you will not see the honourable member and some others for a puff of dust! everybody else will get the blame; everybody else will be blamed for the uncertainty. i say this in all conscience: we have thought about these issues extremely carefully. nobody should think we have blazed into this with no regard for civil liberties. i happen to think that what we are proposing is much better than what we would have if we did not put these arrangements in place, and that we would have greater protection for civil liberties than would otherwise be the case. i hope that when the parliament votes on this it will not do so on the basis that the honourable member and everybody else is moral, honest and right, and the rest of us are corrupt and dishonourable. i hope parliament will recognise that we have tried to provide some legal certainty and that even if there is a disagreement, we have tried to behave in a way which is honourable and sensible and in a way which will be more favourable and more sensible for airlines and for passengers in the months and years ahead.
mr president, i did not accuse the commissioner of acting like a policeman giving corrupt evidence, i said that his lips were moving faster than those of a policeman giving corrupt evidence. however, i accept that my remark might have appeared insulting and i would therefore like to withdraw it.
commission. firstly, as a matter of courtesy, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this own-initiative report and let me say how fascinating it is to see so many people here in the chamber at this hour. (applause)i think i am the commissioner who has spoken most in parliament during the life of this commission. i have spoken quite often at this time of night; i have spoken about human rights in africa and all sorts of issues of life and death, but i have never found as many people here at this hour as i do tonight. i envy commissioner vitorino, for whom i am standing in: if this is what he gets every time he speaks in the chamber, then, my goodness, i got the wrong job in the commission! (laughter and applause)in the light of the fact – and this is where i come back to my policeman role -that parliament has not yet agreed on the final shape of this report, i will reply tonight in fairly general terms and the commission will follow up with a more detailed written response in the normal way. the freedom of expression and information, which includes the freedom and pluralism of the media, is one of the principles common to all member states and on which the union is founded, as article 6 of the treaty on european union states. this right is also provided for in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is therefore no surprise that the commission fully agrees with the statement that a free and pluralist media sector is a prerequisite for freely functioning democracies. we all need to remain most vigilant as regards all aspects of media pluralism in the european union. however, i should stress that the protection of media pluralism is primarily a task for the member states. the question of subsidiarity is crucial in this context. national measures to promote medial pluralism could, for example, include provisions determining share ownership in media companies or measures promoting culturally and linguistically diversified content. the aim of all measures aiding media pluralism is to protect freedom of expression and to ensure that the media reflect a spectrum of views and opinions characteristic of a democratic society. at present, secondary community legislation does not contain any provisions specifically aimed at safeguarding the pluralism of the media. however, community law allows the application of national safeguards with regard to media pluralism. nevertheless, a number of existing community legal instruments contribute either directly or indirectly to the aim of preserving media pluralism. for example, the television without frontiers directive contributes to the safeguarding of media pluralism through a number of content-related provisions, in particular through its provisions on the promotion of european productions and of the work of independent producers. the media programme also plays an important role, whilst the application of competition rules impacts positively on media pluralism. whilst the primary objective of community competition law is economic – that is, to ensure workable competition between market operators – it also helps to prevent an excessive degree of control or cumulative holdings in media companies which might endanger the existence of a wide spectrum of views and opinions in the media market. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate what was said by my colleague commissioner vitorino during the debate on fundamental rights last month. the commission is committed to ensuring that respect for all fundamental rights across the union is properly monitored. we also very much look forward to the incorporation of the charter into the constitutional treaty, giving it full legal status. i am only sorry that this debate has not given me the opportunity to comment in extenso – as they used to say in rome – on the ownership of the media in the country which i know best. i would have been able to express my views to parliament about media, much of which believes passionately in nationalism except when it comes to the ownership of the media. i would have been able to express my views about media proprietors who wish to exercise considerable political influence without ever standing for electoral office, partly because they are not citizens of the country i know best. i am sorry that i do not have the opportunity to make those points this evening. news international and mr murdoch are also very sorry that i do not have the opportunity to make those points, but perhaps on a future occasion there will be a plethora of members of the party with which i am associated who will press me to make those points about media ownership in the united kingdom; and when i am encouraged to do so, i will try to ensure that commissioner vitorino handles the debate.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. – mr president, it is a particular pleasure to participate in a late-night debate, and the issue of media concentration is serious and certainly merits debate. one only has to read the british press today and speculations on why tony blair has made his u-turn on an eu referendum to see that is the case. however, i regret the focus in this report on the attacks made on the italian government. that has detracted from the quality of the report. the committee on culture, for which i am speaking, has taken the issue very seriously and has repeatedly underlined that pluralism in the media is fundamental for safeguarding democracy and cultural diversity in europe. in our report on the television without frontiers directive, we asked for a green paper from the commission and a special study on this subject. we are still waiting for that green paper. we recognise that the member states have primary responsibility. however, in today's rapidly shrinking world, the european union cannot ignore its responsibilities and its special position free from the power of one or two powerful press magnates. it is a pity this report has confused these aims with naked political attacks on the italian government. the issue deserved better.
mr president, this report is not about silvio berlusconi. it is a report about media concentration in all countries of the european union, which is a matter of legitimate public concern. it is a report that has been drawn up in accordance with the normal procedures of our house and, in recognition of the electoral sensitivities of some, the rapporteur has offered to delete mr berlusconi's name from the report. nonetheless, some colleagues are seeking to delay, to filibuster, to disrupt our procedures in order to evade the harsh searchlight of an unpalatable truth. my group calls on the ppe-de group to withdraw these wrecking amendments; and if it will not, we are ready to vote on all 350 of them. we ask you to allow the house to decide whether to proceed and we welcome your assurance that we will have a chance to vote on this report.
mr president, on a point of order, i would not dream of trying to bounce you into making an announcement, but i am offering advice. you will find that, certainly in the committee, when the two groups called for a separate vote in order to keep the amendments on the plenary agenda, they did not vote against a single one. although the rules of procedure allow any group to call for a separate vote on any amendment, we ought to try and flush out which ones they wish to vote truly separately on. i do not think we will find that there is a single negative vote in the two groups against the amendments. there is a high degree of collusion, as others have said, in terms of one group calling for split votes on all the others' amendments and that group calling for split votes on all their colleagues' amendments. it is an attempt to subvert democracy and filibuster to a degree which is ludicrous. mr president, you have your responsibilities, but you and your services are in danger of being subverted.
mr president, on saturday, cyprus votes on the annan plan and its future. cyprus stands at a historic juncture. european liberal democrats and reformers in this house have consistently urged all parties to support the plan and we do so again now. the annan plan offers cyprus a chance for reconciliation and renewal. it is a door to a better future on an island that has endured too much for too long. the plan makes important concessions to both sides. with goodwill on both sides it could be a first step away from years of partition. my group thanks commissioner verheugen for the leadership he has shown in this matter. we regret that more eu leaders have not expressed the same commitment more volubly. the european union will underwrite a huge amount of the reunification process and the court of justice will provide a legal framework for its resolution. this is the last, best hope for a unified cyprus to join the european union on 1 may. we salute the leaders on both sides in cyprus who have supported the annan process and have commended it to their fellow cypriots. 'no' would have been the simple choice: the answer which rhymed easily with resentment and suited political expediency. 'yes' took courage. there are many cypriots, particularly on the greek side, who ask what business it is of ours to be having this debate at all. in the face of all our concern and consternation they offer simply the shrug of self-determination. they can and will vote as they please and they have the right to vote 'no'. but i believe it would be a sad and sectarian choice, the wrong choice for the wrong reasons. moreover, if the purpose of self-determination is the freedom to go on nursing old resentments and the right to weigh the money in your pocket today against reconciliation tomorrow, the cypriots who have turned their faces against this process are welcome to it. i would just ask them to reflect on this. what if the west germans had chosen that kind of self-determination in 1990? on our scarred continent with its crowded history there are some old scores where restitution and compensation can only ever be relative. only the historically illiterate can believe that we can somehow fix what has happened in cyprus, anymore than we can fix kosovo and serbia or israel and palestine. what cyprus needs is a modus vivendi: some way of living that looks forward rather than backward. the annan plan is a modus vivendi. if it is lost on saturday it could put back the reunification of cyprus by a generation. the european union would have to face up to a new reality on the ground: the possibility for a peaceful transfer of land will be lost; the turkish army will continue to guard what will remain a militarised border; un peacekeepers will patrol within the european union. the english writer lawrence durrell, who lived for many years on cyprus, recorded a greek cypriot proverb that says there is no fire in old ashes. liberal democrats and reformers in this house hope beyond hope that sunday will not find cypriots stirring the cold old ashes of a sad history. (applause)
mr president, the commissioner said that he felt cheated by the government of cyprus. he was too polite. his good faith has been betrayed, as has that of our rapporteur, mr poos. under international law, the entire island of cyprus will join the european union on 1 may, regardless of the result of the referendum, and turkish cypriots will become eu citizens. however, if the greek cypriots reject the annan plan, turkish cypriots will be eu citizens who are denied recognition and representation and who are being kept impoverished by economic sanctions applied by the eu. turkish cypriots are trapped in a pincer: they are threatened on the one hand by turkish settlers and on the other by the economic strength of the greek cypriots. they have been poorly led for years. however, the tide has now turned and if they vote 'yes' in saturday's referendum, they will have done everything that we and the un have asked of them. under such circumstances it would be completely unacceptable for economic sanctions to be maintained. we cannot persecute our own citizens. the presidency and the commission, with the un, must take steps to lift their burden through the means of transport and trade, and must do so without delay.
mr president, i understand why commissioner verheugen feels cheated on the 1999 deal that the greek cypriot government would facilitate a settlement if accession were unconditional. my own view in 1999 that accession was not feasible without unification. we should have kept both sides guessing in order to keep up the pressure. i was criticised for that view and accused of bias. however, it looks as if communication with turkish cypriots – convincing them that europe is friendly and welcoming – has paid off. that kind of effort has also been undertaken by the european commission in the face of legalistic objections. the eu institutions have perhaps let down the greek cypriots by failing sufficiently to challenge their version of history or to encourage them to realise that a compromise would be necessary – not a return to the pre-1974 situation. this house bears some of that responsibility. mr poos calls on cypriots to leave nationalism at the door. i welcome that call. i just wish it had been made consistently on both communities over the last five years. if indeed the north votes 'yes' and the south 'no', the status quo cannot endure and a new assessment will be needed. ways will have to be found to bring turkish cypriots out of their political and economic isolation. for instance, we must drop the requirement for cypriots to have greek mother tongue in order to be officials in the eu institutions. there must be a european parliament delegation to northern cyprus. i am getting ahead of myself. i still hope very much that greek cypriots, as well as turkish cypriots, will vote 'yes' on saturday. the world bank predicts a huge growth spurt of 5% per annum if they do so.
mr president, as a friend of the large cypriot community which i represent in london, i have always supported peaceful reunification of cyprus. however, i have never underestimated the practical and political difficulties created over the 30 post-invasion years in which turkey has moved 120 000 mainland settlers into the north, when they do not share the common historical heritage of the island and generally do not speak english or greek, previously the bicommunal languages. the annan iii plan has gone a long way towards settling differences in a fair sui generis way. however, i have received hundreds of e-mails from my greek cypriot constituents who are concerned that this plan offers no guarantees on turkish implementation of troop withdrawal and territorial and property restitution. it is interesting that even the greek cypriots – the lucky ones who have been promised the return of their homes – seem to oppose the plan. they also object to mainland settlers being granted citizenship, as this would appear to reward the aggressor and violate the geneva conventions, which prohibit the settlement of outside populations by the occupying power. cypriot president tassos papadopoulos has rejected the proposals and called for a 'no' vote by the greek cypriot community. i personally believe it is best for outsiders, including members of this house, not to put any pressure on a referendum process as this would be perceived as interference in cyprus's sovereign affairs. furthermore, if both communities do not give their free consent and the arrangements break down in the future, blame will be apportioned to the players who leaned on the cypriot people to get a 'yes' vote. the british government is prepared to cede some of the sovereign base territory surplus to its needs, if this will help. i, like many of my colleagues, wish the referendum process well and will support the outcome of the vote on the 24 april, whichever way it goes.
mr president, after president bush's endorsement of mr sharon's prejudgment of final status negotiations – ruling himself out as an even-handed peacebroker – it is easy to be discouraged about the prospects for the coexistence of a secure israel and a viable palestinian state, but that is the only real solution via the roadmap. it may well be that israel keeping some key west bank settlements and palestinians accepting that the return of refugees will be to a palestinian state – with which i personally agree – would indeed be part of an eventual negotiated settlement. the quartet, with eu leadership, must disprove, however, mr sharon's claim that his plan constitutes a critical blow to palestinian hopes of statehood. i am absolutely committed to the existence of israel as a jewish homeland and state – though one in which arab israelis have full, equal rights – and israel's right to live in peace and security within recognised boundaries. my dismay at the occupation is not only about the misery of ordinary palestinians but also how the role of colonial occupier is damaging israel's integrity and its commitment to the rule of law. i condemn all terrorism against israel and i do not see suicide bombers as purely the product of desperation among palestinians – real though that desperation is. there is also exploitation of young people and a despicable culture of martyrdom in a perversion of islam. the wall or fence might be capable of justification if it were on the green line – but it is not. the bush-sharon policy of military defeat will not ensure israel's security. hamas is a dangerous and uncompromising organisation dedicated to israel's destruction, but the recent illegal assassinations of its leaders simply create more bitterness and recruits for terrorism. i am deeply worried about the rising incidence of anti-semitism in europe and take a strong interest in combating it, as well as other kinds of racial and religious prejudice. the delay by the eu monitoring centre in producing timely work on the threat to europe's jewish communities naturally fed suspicions about bias. we need renewed vigour in exposing and rooting out anti-semitism and in establishing the dividing line between legitimate criticism of the policies of the israeli government and the demonisation of jews. i understand the shock that israelis must have felt at the poll last year that said that 59% of europeans considered israel a threat to world peace. i believe that many respondents read that question as being about the conflict between israel and palestinians, but it was deeply unhelpful to pose it in that way. however, the result was a wake-up call. we need a more intense eu-israel dialogue. that is why i personally oppose any calls in the european parliament to boycott israel, and calls for cutting academic links are completely counterproductive. i have equally resisted moves to eliminate eu funding for the palestinian authority. i welcome the fact that it is palestinians themselves calling for a clean-up of corruption, but israel needs a negotiating partner and the sub-saharan poverty level of palestinians would be even greater without eu support. finally, it is unworthy of israel and its tradition of justice to persecute mordechai vanunu in a vindictive manner after his release. he has served his sentence and he should now be free.
council. i should like to thank all members for their contributions to what has been a very important debate. i listened to the weariness in commissioner patten's voice when he was speaking. it is a weariness shared by us all in that we have to return the same issue over and over again. it saddens me to note that, in the three short weeks since we last debated this issue, the situation has become worse, not better. we are all depressed by the endlessly grim sequence of events in the region. this debate, however, gives us an opportunity to continue to remind all of the players and parties in the middle east – to take up the point made by mr de rossa in his final contribution – that people must behave even-handedly and within the acceptable limits of international law. we should also take the opportunity to remind other parties that there is no alternative to full and impartial negotiation of a two-state solution, that this solution should result in a viable, contiguous and sovereign, independent palestinian state, and that the roadmap is the only available way of achieving that. if i correctly heard mr laschet, he raised two points. first, i believe he suggested that the presidency views the roadmap as somehow dead. that is emphatically not the case. that is certainly not the view of this presidency. we have said time and again that the roadmap is the only viable way out of the current morass. mr laschet also seemed to suggest that we see no opportunity for movement arising from the israeli plans for withdrawal from gaza. that does not accurately reflect either the presidency's position or the position i stated at tullamore. i reject the notion that european union member states are in any way disunited on the matter. there is absolute agreement within the union on this. the council of ministers made that clear. the important, substantial and final statement unanimously agreed by the 25 ministers last weekend makes the position very clear. questions arise as to whether the roadmap is dead. the roadmap remains the only framework; it is the only option available. there is nothing else available. that point has to be made clear. i am confident that not only is the roadmap as valid and as centrally relevant now as it was when it was first put in place, but its relevance, importance and significance must also continue to be reiterated, particularly when the quartet meets – probably in new york on 4 may. the question was raised as to the plans to dismantle the israeli settlements in the gaza strip. again, the foreign ministers and the general affairs ministers made it clear that there are five elements in this area: first, withdrawal in gaza must take place within the context of the roadmap; second, it must be seen as a step towards a two-state solution; third, it must not involve the transfer of settlement activity to the west bank; fourth, there must be an organised and negotiated handover to the palestinian authority; fifth, israel must facilitate the humanitarian reconstruction of gaza, in which the european union has invested very heavily. the issue of anti-semitism was raised. the ongoing difficulties in the region must never be allowed to become the basis for anti-semitism to raise its head in europe again. i agree with baroness ludford on that particular point. her point has been taken. last autumn the european union took an unprecedented initiative at the un general assembly in proposing a stand-alone resolution condemning all manifestations of anti-semitism. at the osce conference that will take place in berlin on 28 and 29 april the union will play its full and appropriate part in addressing and condemning this appalling phenomenon. mr de rossa has said a great deal on this issue with which i agree wholeheartedly. the european union must be an even-handed player. mr de rossa is absolutely consistent and right about that. he is also right about the need for all the players to take a balanced view. however, i am not so sure that he was correct when he suggested that suspension of the association agreement is an appropriate tool. suspension is not on the agenda at the moment. consensus within the union would be required for such a step. those arguing that such an action should take place would have to consider the undesirable consequences arising from it. article 2 of the agreement reinforces obligations already incumbent on the signatories in respect of human rights. perhaps we should emphasise that responsibility. meetings of the association council with israel provide the european union with an opportunity to emphasise our concerns – and those stated so many times by mr de rossa – to the israeli authorities. it is better to have a channel to do that. it would be wrong to let the debate pass without mentioning suicide bombings and terrorist attacks against israel. the israeli viewpoint, all too often, is that we are not mindful of their concerns. that is not the case. suicide and terrorist attacks against civilian targets are condemned. they are an abomination. we all condemn them. suicide bombings advance no legitimate agenda and can only do damage to the interests of the palestinian people as well as causing further untold mayhem, damage and suffering to the israeli people, which has suffered far too much in the past. we have to be even-handed in this. i believe that europe is even-handed in this. i agree with commissioner patten that, if europe yet again rebuilds what has been put in place to support the palestinian people, the least we can expect is that the israeli authorities should support, respect and protect that infrastructure.
- this meeting is adjourned.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on transatlantic relations.
mr president, i wish to protest again this year that the amendment tabled by my delegation on the 2005 calendar, which seeks to end this charade of coming to strasbourg every month at gross expense to the european union taxpayer, has been declared inadmissible. mr president, i think you should refer the matter to the european court of justice. (applause)
mr president, this house has discussed on a number of occasions the matter of the commission's proposed agreements with the united states. the house has expressed its own willingness to reach agreement with the united states on exchange of data on air passengers in a proper international agreement, to be approved by congress and by this house, to ensure that we get the right balance between data protection and an effective fight against terrorism. the commission is deeply divided on this matter, and is unable even to claim adequacy because it does not know about the circumstances in which the americans can refer data to third countries. we are seeking the advice of the court of justice on whether this is compatible with our own laws and our own treaties. i advise this house to think very carefully and to refer it to the court. (applause)
mr president, referral to the court is not something that we would have chosen. the commission promised to consult us under article 300 with the power of assent. the commission has not fulfilled that promise and, therefore, we have had to use a very blunt instrument to try to maintain democracy within this union.
mr president, i will not go into the substance of this matter since we all know what it is about. my group has no objection to taking part in 600 votes tomorrow, but we have a clear preference for your suggestion that we simply vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph. a long voting session is already foreseen, colleagues on both sides have had their say, and, therefore, i propose to you that we follow your suggestion of voting on the original report paragraph by paragraph. (applause)
mr president, surely if the rapporteur is requesting a referral back to committee of her own report, and there is a dispute, then the house should vote on this?
mr president, we have decided to refer this matter to the court of justice. if we are now to take a vote on the report rejecting the agreement, then we are showing a discourtesy to the court. if the house were to vote to accept the agreement, then we would be prejudging the court's judgment. it seems to me quite natural that since we are awaiting the court's ruling on the matter, we should wait in committee with this report before voting on it. (applause)
mr president, could you give the house some indication as to whether you intend to break for lunch? there are a lot of votes and there are a couple of official delegations, one from the australian parliament, waiting for our colleague mr sturdy to host lunch with them. it is also 2.10 p.m.! (applause)
- ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to welcome this afternoon, on behalf of the european parliament, two prominent representatives of the geneva initiative for peace in the middle east: former knesset speaker avraham burg and former palestinian authority minister of information yasser abed rabbo. i hope that the meetings you had yesterday and this morning with the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, the delegation for relations with israel and the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council and representatives of the political groups will have borne fruit. the great interest shown by members in these meetings is a testimony to the enthusiastic support of parliament for the geneva initiative. you are very welcome here. i hope you will understand that we do not have a high turnout in this house this afternoon because we only finished voting eight minutes ago. i think everyone's at lunch right now. thank you for coming.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the council and commission statements on transatlantic relations.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the presidency for the hospitality shown in ireland. it was indeed a memorable occasion, though i did not know that we were in mr roche's constituency. of course, we were very well received and the hospitality was superb. thank you very much indeed, mr roche. the spirit of your remarks and of commissioner patten's shows that, despite the enormous difficulties we have had in transatlantic relations in the past few months, a great deal could be achieved at this eu-us summit if we have sufficient courage to do so. the remarks made give me some encouragement that we can make real progress. my first point concerns the question of the joint study – which you mentioned, commissioner – looking at the economic aspects. i warmly welcome that because, if we can look at the remaining barriers to trade, we can aim for a barrier-free transatlantic market. perhaps you might have the courage to say that this should be done within a ten-year period. that would genuinely galvanise communities on both sides to overcome the remaining obstacles. my second point, perhaps as important, is that we should look at the broader framework of transatlantic relations. as you have said, commissioner, so many subjects form part of this agenda: the environment, foreign policy, industrial and social policy and, as we have seen, pnr data as well. it now needs a new framework to take these into account and, in particular, bring the parliamentary dialogue into the broader framework of the relationship. i therefore welcome the fact that you wish to carry out an independent review. i hope this wish will be shared by our american friends as well, so that at the eu-us summit next year, when we have the incoming administrations, we would be able to pave the way for a broader agreement, possibly a partnership agreement, to be struck between the eu and the us perhaps by 2007. thank you very much for your comments. i wish you well, president-in-office, and hope that, when you come to dublin, we will have a statement to set out the future of the relationship which both europeans and americans can recognise.
mr president, i want to raise two issues in my one minute. firstly, the proposal to launch a transatlantic marketplace is the brainchild of the transatlantic policy network, consisting of multinational corporations, neo-liberal think tanks and politicians in this house. it has never been the subject of a proper public debate, even though it will be the biggest deregulation project ever undertaken. we do not believe it is in the interests of ordinary people. secondly, i want to urge the council to raise with us colleagues the issue of iraq and in particular the recent massacre at fallujah – and i do not use the word massacre lightly. images of the us military's handling of the uprising in fallujah have shocked the world. more than 600 iraqis have been killed or injured in the last two weeks by us bombing and ground operations, and yet eu member states have failed to condemn the us military actions. maybe they accept the reassurance of the commander of us marines that his men are 'trained to be precise in their firepower'. however, over 350 of the dead in fallujah were women and children. in the light of us military use of unjustified and disproportionate force, and given the high death toll in this siege, i call on the council to raise its human rights concerns in this transatlantic dialogue and to call for an independent commission of inquiry into the us military actions in the fallujah region.
mr president, many of us, particularly on this side of the house, wish to strengthen relations with the united states. in these dangerous times it is vitally important that democracies should come closer together and that any differences should be minimised. i am encouraged by much of the positive and constructive language in the resolution before us and i am particularly pleased that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy adopted my amendment calling for the establishment of a transatlantic single market by 2015. we must now work to turn that aspiration into a reality. it is a pity therefore that an otherwise good resolution is spoilt by some sniping against the united states or a subtext that has little to do with transatlantic relations and more to do with the obsessive movement towards some sort of european state. the integrationalists clearly visualise just two interlocutors in the transatlantic relationship, the us and the eu. the ambition is also for the eu to speak for the european countries in nato and the un. indeed, in the objectionable draft european constitution there is a requirement that the new eu foreign minister should present the eu case in the un security council in certain circumstances. as a united kingdom representative, i cannot accept that the european union should represent us in our dealings with the united states on defence and security matters. for over fifty years nato has provided the forum where the nations of europe and of north america have discussed the great security issues of our time and agreed on necessary action. difficulties arise when other institutions come into the frame. it is misleading our own citizens and our allies to suggest that the development of an autonomous eu military capability has anything to do with reinforcing nato or is motivated by the desire to work in close partnership with the united states. i see no willingness among many eu member states to contribute more military resources to the defence of the democracies and there is a lack of political will to deal robustly with the security threats that we face. we have no wish to see the eu as such involved in defence policy. we welcome rapid progress in the creation of a transatlantic single market.
- i have received a motion for a resolution (doc. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- report (a5-0275/2004) by mr brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council decision on the signing of the cooperation agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of pakistan.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, my committee's opinion was that the cooperation agreement should be approved, subject to the enforcement of the human rights clause. this would mean that we really do monitor respect for rights, such as freedom of speech and religion, and intervene when breaches occur. the eu has not always exploited such possibilities to the full, and parliament should push harder in future. the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights is well aware of the imperfect state of democracy and human rights in pakistan. we are outraged at the discrimination and violence against women, at the continuation of the death penalty and at the persecution of minorities, especially religious and national ones. the role of the army is unacceptable and the intelligence services are far too powerful. however, this situation is more likely to improve if we are engaged in the dialogue that the agreement will create, and which will enable us to encourage the forces of progress and modernisation. the pakistani diaspora in europe, which is especially numerous in the uk, can play a very important role in conveying the human rights message. my impression is that they want this agreement concluded. they are right.
mr president, i had the honour to be a part of the delegation to pakistan's visit to the pakistani side of the line of control in kashmir in december. we had the opportunity during that delegation meeting to meet with president musharraf, and i was much impressed by his commitment to pursuing a programme of peace and reconciliation with india. it looks, for the first time, as though both sides are prepared to think the previously unthinkable and find a resolution, driven by the economic impact on their two economies of a continuing conflict; a conflict that has dogged the world for the last 50 years. nevertheless, there are still enormous problems in pakistan regarding human rights, democracy and nuclear proliferation. colleagues have told us about the treatment of christian and ahmadi religious minorities, the situation of women, the deeply flawed election result that mr cushnahan oversaw, and the jailing of members of the opposition like javed hashmi. i would therefore concur with my colleagues on those concerns. last year mr tannock and i added to our resolution on north korea the fact that pakistan had supplied blueprints for a highly enriched uranium technology programme to north korea for the production of nuclear weapons. at the time, we were roundly attacked by the pakistani government and when i raised the issue with foreign minister kasuri during the december meeting i was told that the north koreans needed no help – they were well advanced with nuclear weapon technology, including miniaturisation. whether or not they needed help, it is now clear that it was provided. now new questions are arising about the nuclear test of 30 may 1998 in baluchistan, which looks as if it could have been a joint test of a plutonium weapon between pakistan and north korea. when i raised the issue with the pakistani ambassador, who came to see me this week, he said that they were cooperating with the united states. that is not good enough: we in the european union want cooperation and to be kept in the loop as well. however, despite that, i will support this third-generation cooperation agreement. we will be paying close attention to further progress on human rights in pakistan.
mr president, for three years the parliament has blocked the association agreement with pakistan to encourage that country's return to democracy and the observance of human rights. if we want to maintain that encouragement and not reject the genuine progress made, now is the time to give our support to ratification. i do not deny that profound concerns remain in relation to freedom of expression, religious discrimination, and the treatment of women. this parliament cannot and will not justify any abuse of human rights in the name of the war against terror. i respect the sincerity of mr cushnahan in particular, although i regret that he has chosen to make a personal attack on the british prime minister this afternoon. however, i reach a different conclusion that does not deny that the 17th constitutional amendment represents a return to democracy; that president musharraf is supporting the bill on the hudood ordinances and action against so-called honour killings; that mr hashmi was tried in an independent court, he will appeal and that the appeal to the higher court against exile by his own party leader was recently successful. we cannot deny that nuclear proliferation is being exposed and stopped, that the greek seamen have been returned to their own country or that the president has once again confirmed that he will cease to be the chief of the army. i want the human rights clause to be a more effective part of our association agreements, but i also want that in relation to the agreements which exist today, with russia, kazakhstan, uzbekistan, morocco, tunisia, algeria and israel. a 'no' vote against pakistan would risk this parliament being accused of double standards. when pakistan, with india, has had the courage and vision to resume talks which lead the subcontinent from the brink of war, a signal of positive encouragement from europe is the only just and fitting response.
mr president, in the past i have been a long-standing critic of the islamic republic of pakistan in terms of its human rights violations, in particular the ongoing persecution of christian and ahmadi muslim minorities; its ambivalent and lukewarm cooperation in the fight against islamist terrorism, which has led to the destabilisation of afghanistan by aiding taliban forces to regroup; ongoing jihad infiltration across the line of control into indian kashmir; and – as mr ford said – most importantly of all, the pakistani export of nuclear technology to rogue states such as north korea and former terrorist-supporting iran and libya, which threaten global security. nevertheless i support the trade agreement, as i have to recognise that pakistan has recently made some encouraging moves in human rights, including women's rights, which deserve recognition and reward. also, as a friend of india, historically pakistan's giant neighbour and foe, i take great heart at the peaceful rapprochement as evidenced by several confidence-building measures, most visibly and recently the successful cricket tour. only three years ago the two states teetered on the verge of nuclear war. india is today in the midst of general elections as a beacon for democracy and prosperity. its growth rate is now higher than china's and it does not want to see pakistan suffer economically. the recent campaign in waziristan shows islamabad's intent to prosecute a war against al-qa'ida strongholds in tribal areas, historically no-go areas for the government of president musharraf, who has now pressured tribal leaders to hunt down islamist militants. maybe human rights clauses should not be in trade agreements, as this muddies the waters, but should instead be conditional on aid received. otherwise, does the eu stop trading with russia, china, uzbekistan or iran, to name a few examples of countries with human rights problems? clearly that is a matter for another debate, but for the meantime we must support this accord.
mr president, in britain a man suffocated to death his 40-year-old brother who had huntington's disease. he pleaded guilty to culpable homicide and the judge set him free. in a residential institution in belgium, disabled people have been abused by carers and health workers, physically beaten and their money taken and used by staff. in a residential home in the netherlands, five elderly people with dementia were hit, spat at, kicked and called names by three nurses. in spain, a 44-year-old disabled woman was confined by her parents to a cellar six feet deep from the age of four. social workers knew about this for 25 years. in bulgaria, children in a home for intellectually disabled people were tethered to their beds in winter and left to freeze at night when the heating was turned off to save money. fifteen children - a quarter of the residents - died. a man from venice in italy with mental health problems was habitually locked in his home when his mother went out, leaving him alone. when fire broke out he found the front door locked and died of suffocation from smoke inhalation. in germany a 55-year-old man with learning difficulties and impaired sight was attacked on his way to work by two skinheads and beaten and trampled to death. the youths told the police that 'he was unworthy of life'. as mr gahler has just stated, the members of the ppe-de group in this parliament voted against mrs de keyser's admirable report in committee and some threatened to oppose it in plenary, because they say that these examples of abuse against disabled people do not constitute a breach of human rights. shame on them!
mr president, i am a great supporter of genuine human rights, but there is a danger that we are moving to an increasingly rights-based culture and that just about every human desire and social and health need is defined as a fundamental human right. this approach is unhelpful from many standpoints, not least from the point of view of those who suffer genuine human rights abuse and whose cry is muffled by all the other competing demands. i have another concern: at a time when international terrorism ranks among our greatest anxieties, we all too often see terrorists and their front organisations and political apologists abuse the human rights label for their own purposes as a political weapon and as a means of reducing the effectiveness of the security forces operating against them. the report before us contains all of these faults. it is a great improvement on the first draft, but still lacks sufficient focus on the real human rights concerns around the world. whilst swiping at the current targets of the left - the united states and israel - it misses the opportunity to expose those corrupt regimes on many continents that keep their people in misery, and offers very little support to the victims of terrorism or those engaged in fighting terrorism. in regard to the israel-palestine question, paragraph 46 of the report infers that settlement activity outside israel's borders is somehow comparable to indiscriminate terrorist attacks on innocent civilians inside israel. such comparisons are nothing short of abhorrent and it is most irresponsible for politicians to make such suggestions, particularly when all our peoples are faced with the threat of terrorism. in regard to the issue of guantanamo bay, the report offers excessive comfort to those detained in camp delta, while ignoring the difficulties faced by our democracies in dealing with fanatics who are intent on menacing and murdering innocent civilians. i would like to see a call for tough action by the eu and the rest of the international community to bring about real change in the countries that are the real human rights abusers, like zimbabwe. let us focus on real human rights problems, not political whim.
mr president, d'abord, chère madame, je dois vous féliciter pour votre rapport! however, there is a worrying undercurrent in the way human rights and terrorism have been addressed. while i share some of the sentiments that have been expressed by my colleague mr van orden, i am also worried from another point of view. centralised government, whether national or international, is very quick to take powers and set up mechanisms that may help them in the fight against terror but which certainly erode the established rights and liberties of the citizen. there is therefore a supreme irony that the counter-terrorism policies, which we all support, may do as much to restrict our freedoms as the terrorists do themselves. mr president, unless there is an electoral miracle in june, or a mass self-sacrificing resignation among my colleagues, this is the last occasion on which i shall have the pleasure to address this distinguished and honourable house. may i, with your indulgence president, take this opportunity to put on record my sincerest thanks to the members of this house, the staff here and in brussels, and above all my colleagues in the british conservative delegation for the generosity, kindness, help, sympathy and often-needed support that all have given me over the past five years. it would be a lie if i said i was happy with my lowly position on my party's list in the south west region of great britain, but it would not be a lie to say that i have enjoyed these five years, perhaps more than i can say. so mr president, thank you and farewell. (applause)
mr president, i would like to follow up on the excellent speech by mr van orden and the very interesting point made by the earl of stockton in his valedictory speech just now. at its meeting last week, the united nations commission on human rights failed to publicly criticise russia and china for their human rights abuses. it rejected resolutions on chechnya, china and zimbabwe, but adopted measures on north korea, cuba, belarus and turkmenistan. this showed that powerful countries can still get away with murder, torture and the silencing of critics just days before news emerged about the discovery in chechnya of the bodies of nine men who had been extra-judicially executed. torture and arbitrary detention remain rampant in chechnya despite russian government claims that the situation is normalising. the united states has sponsored a mildly-worded resolution on china that encourages the chinese government to make substantive progress in systematic reforms to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, china was victorious in a procedural initiative at the un with a no-action motion to prevent the resolution from coming to a vote. over the last ten years, about 8 900 chinese christians have been arrested and detained, and religious activity that is not state-controlled is illegal. china is increasingly branding harmless religious groups as dangerous cults. in zimbabwe, there is a chronic situation of human rights abuses, yet the united nations is not taking any action. it simply cannot be that countries with poor human rights records use a no-action motion to block discussion of their own human rights practices. the un commission's purpose is to publicly air the human rights situation in any country, especially in the case of egregious violators. it is time to put an end to the misuse of procedural mechanisms to keep violations off the table. if the un continues to be a puppet, we should cease funding its human rights activities.
mr president, i welcome this report, which is wonderfully comprehensive. the sad thing is that we have to have it at all. if only we lived in a world where we did not perpetually have to stand up and condemn the human rights abuses that occur throughout the world. let me mention what is happening in zanzibar, with its criminalisation and arrests of homosexuals, and where the eu has a mechanism through which it can act - the cotonou agreement - but does not seem to have the political will to do so. similarly, when there have been breakdowns of the human rights clauses in our eu association agreements and we have called for action, those calls have been ignored. let me also mention egypt, where there is continuing arrest, entrapment and imprisonment of homosexuals. i praise the irish presidency for its work at the un in supporting the brazilian motion on human rights and sexual orientation. sadly, this motion has once again been suspended, due primarily to lobbying by egypt and pakistan, the vatican and the conference of islamic states. we are talking here about human beings, about the destruction of individual freedom, individual hope and individual lives. the dignity of any society is based on respect for the dignity of those individuals. finally, this report sends out a powerful message that what happens in another part of the world is as important to this house and the member states as if it were happening in europe. human rights abuses against another individual are human rights abuses against us all.
mr president, the bad news for the commission and council is that i expect to be back in the next parliament and i am the rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy on the regulation covering third countries. it is quite clear that the committee on development and cooperation is content with the operations under the european initiative for democracy and human rights and it is understandable that two-thirds of the money should now be released for next year. i am sure mr nielson is pleased about that. on the other hand, the foreign affairs committee, which actually began this programme some twelve years ago - it was 1992 not 1994 and i was the original rapporteur - is not content. its members have agreed that we should withdraw my report, which should have been debated today, to allow us time to put more pressure on the commission and council over the coming weeks to agree to two very simple requests. the first request is that an advisory committee should be set up – outside comitology, composed of representatives of parliament and the commission and probably chaired by the high representative – to deal with this fundamentally sensitive programme, which should not necessarily involve the developing countries but rather the countries nearer to us - the 'new neighbourhood' as it is now described. the second request is that an independent study be conducted, and i await a serious offer from the commission on this, not just 'we have an open mind'. the commission does not have an open mind. it wants to keep the entire programme to itself. however, there is a better way of delivery, as is shown by the americans, the danes, the germans, the dutch, the swedish and the british, and that is to have a separate foundation that is reliable, flexible and expert to assist the commission in the delivery of the programme. that is our position and we look forward to some proper reaction from the commission and council to these suggestions in due course. the commissioner said that this result was welcome and in everybody's interest. is he talking about the hundreds of millions of people who live in the new neighbourhood, from russia, belarus and the ukraine, through the caucuses and down through the arc of instability across north africa to morocco, into the arab world? two hundred and eighty million arabs live without democracy. is he proud of that? i now have to address my remarks to the press because we have an election coming up and in today's financial times i write that 'europe's power risks being so soft that it can hardly be felt by the people to whom it is addressed'. unfortunately, this welcome programme, brilliantly implemented in the former-soviet bloc, is totally ineffective in today's world. it is the commission's responsibility to make it effective and i intend to press very hard to ensure that it does.
mr president, the european capital of culture programme is one of the european union's success stories. it gets europe out of brussels and strasbourg and into the hearts and minds of people right across europe. cities compete to become the capital of culture - which is regarded as an accolade - and indeed they should. in britain, glasgow's time as the european capital of culture in 1990 was a real success story. today it is the third most visited city in britain. glasgow's urban renaissance provided a blueprint for others and i am sure that liverpool - the home of the beatles as nobody needs reminding - will have great success during its year in 2008. as an mep from the south-east of england, i am only sorry that our candidates of canterbury, brighton and oxford were not chosen. any one of them would have been a great capital of culture. as an english conservative i have great respect for our french socialist president of the committee on culture; i admire the first quality, i will excuse the second! in this instance i believe the majority in the committee was correct. it was too long to wait until 2019 for any of the accession states to have the opportunity to become a capital of culture. by sharing the list from 2009, when lithuania will be the first of the accession states to get the opportunity, we will not detract from the principle: we will introduce the opportunity of cooperation across europe, putting europe back into the concept. that is something we can look forward to: cooperation is, after all, what europe is all about.
mr president, this motion is to censure the whole commission. alas, we do not currently have the power in this house to censure individuals - we have only this nuclear option. perhaps in eurostat's case this is the best thing. the problem here is that the commissioners are happy to make great political statements on policy but absolutely refuse to take political responsibility for problems that occur in their dgs. effective political control, proper communication, procedures and financial checks and balances were either not in place in eurostat, failed to work, or were simply ignored. in fact all the warning signs were completely ignored. in this case, eur 5 million went missing because of fraud and bad management controls. yet the only person to be arrested was a journalist - hans-martin tillack - who chose to report this in stern and whose office was raided again today. it is not amazing that olaf can act with such speed involving police in trying to get the name of a journalist and checking his bank accounts in days. however, if you compare this to the eurostat case, where after more than a year of investigations we have basically nothing, it begs the question of the priorities of various individuals within the dg responsible. during the discharge process for 2001, eurostat was one of our rapporteur's key themes. we now know that not all the information we needed at the time was made available to this house. many meps are now on record as saying that if they had been given all the facts at the time, they would have voted against discharge for those accounts last year. if the commission and the leaders of all the political groups in this parliament had put half as much energy into solving the systemic problems shown up by the eurostat case as they have in trying to block this motion from having an airing on the floor of the house, then all these problems could have been solved years ago. this commission deserves to be censured, and future commissioners need to know that they will take political responsibility for the actions of their dgs.
commission - mr president, before going into the heart of the matter, allow me to say a personal word to thank the honourable rapporteur, my friend wim van velzen, for the work he has done throughout these ten years for the common good and to improve the lives of all europeans, whatever their background and whatever their field, and not just europeans: i am also thinking of his work at the international level, at the very global level. in my view, wim van velzen has shown what a good parliamentarian can do.
mr president, congratulations are due to mr van velzen because he has done excellent work and produced a really good report. i was rapporteur for the first e-content report and i can see that mr van velzen has worked very hard to try to ensure we give europe an advantage in e-content. as he stated earlier, the us has the world's most advanced digital economy and europe, with its fragmented markets and smaller media and telecommunication companies, is trying to catch up in terms of quality of content and products. rather than talk about what is in his report, which has been eloquently summarised both by the rapporteur and the commission, i want to talk about the council. i am extremely concerned about the sort of attitude and approach that the council has adopted. it has stated time and again that it wants to achieve the lisbon objectives, key among which is the opening-up of opportunities for europe in the electronic age. however, when it comes to the council putting its money where its mouth is, nothing at all happens. as the reporter said, the council has treated parliament with complete contempt. we have been haggling over figures – 20 million, 30 million, 50 million – because it is unwilling to provide sufficient resources to make this programme happen. in a europe of 25 member states, adequate resources will be needed if we are to gain a competitive edge over our major competitor, the us, in this area. many high-skill jobs rely on us being able to get our content right and on having this programme and reaching smes and other providers. it is a great pity that owing to the council's attitude we have been unable to finalise this initiative. it was key for this legislature to do that and have this programme up and running for 2005, and there was real will on parliament's part to make this happen. it is to the detriment of the eu that it has not, and this has been because the council has been unwilling to pay for it. what it is offering at the moment is peanuts in terms of a union of 25. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who did his utmost to achieve closure, because some of us in other groups wanted to stick to the original commission proposal, which was for eur 165 million. that is the amount needed if we are genuinely to deliver on this econtent proposal. this failure is not due to a lack of effort on the rapporteur's part. i hope that at second reading the council will get the message that parliament is not willing to support programmes that are simply piecemeal efforts.
commission. mr president, the case of leyla zana casts a negative shadow over the implementation of political reforms. in a statement made yesterday, the commission strongly deplored yesterday’s verdict by the ankara state security court confirming the sentencing of mrs zana to serve her full prison term until june 2005. let me briefly remind you of the background to this case. as part of the political reforms adopted in turkey in the period 2002/2003, new provisions were introduced in the turkish legal system allowing for the retrial of persons whose convictions the european court of human rights has found to violate the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. this was a specific priority under the accession partnership with turkey. another priority concerns the need to remedy the situation of those persons prosecuted or sentenced for non-violent expression of opinion. following the introduction of these new provisions, a decision was taken in february 2003, under which mrs zana and her three co-defendants were to be retried by the ankara state security court. however, in spite of the several sessions held by the ankara state security court, retrial largely resulted in a repetition of the previous trial, leading to persistent concerns about the respect for the rights of the defence and the principle of presumption of innocence, as acknowledged by independent international experts. the commission has repeatedly expressed its concerns to the turkish authorities in the framework of the political dialogue. in our view, while fully respecting the principle of independence of the judiciary, the way this case has been handled shows the gap that exists between the spirit of the reforms and their actual implementation. as i mentioned, the trial against mrs zana was held at a state security court. it is worth recalling that, according to the relevant priority under the accession partnership, the european union has repeatedly asked turkey to align the functioning of the state security courts with european standards. we note that the abolition of these courts is among the measures envisaged in the next package of legislative reforms announced in turkey. i should also like to point out that in his speech before the turkish parliament in january 2004, president prodi called for the immediate release of mrs zana. moreover, the commission has raised this issue several times in its regular report and within the framework of the political dialogue with the turkish authorities. we understand that the lawyers representing the defendants have announced their intention to refer the case to the court of cassation and hope that it will be dealt with in accordance with all the relevant principles of equal justice.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its statement. probably uniquely in this house, i actually knew leyla zana before she was tried and convicted. i first met her in the late 1980s. she is, to put it mildly, a controversial figure. nonetheless the action that she took is perfectly within the realms of democratic expression. after all, all she did was to say something in the kurdish language within her parliament. mrs ahern and others sometimes choose to use the irish language within this parliament. indeed my quaestor colleague, mrs banotti, did so in her opening speech. however, i do not think even the worst enemies of fine gael would wish mrs banotti to be locked up for 15 years for that. there has been complete over-reaction from the very beginning. the way in which the trial was conducted was unacceptable and it was thanks to the intervention of the council of europe that a retrial was held. it is a great disappointment to me and my group that the turkish judicial authorities did not show themselves to have sufficient flexibility to use this opportunity of having a retrial that would effectively have exonerated mrs zana. she has been the victim of what is in effect a struggle between a reactionary judiciary and a state that is trying to reform. i welcome the packages of reforms that have been adopted and i also welcome the fact that the state security courts are to be abolished. this is not before time. some people are indeed working hard for democracy in turkey, and the akp deputy faruk ünsal spoke out against this particular verdict. i hope that in passing in what i think will be a unanimous resolution, supported right across the house, that we can send a message, not to the turkish government but to the turkish judiciary, to be realistic, to get up to date and, for a change, to support their government in trying to restore respect for the turkish judiciary within turkey.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its extremely strong and clear statement on the unfortunate zana case. during the recent joint parliamentary committee meeting in turkey, we brought up the issue of the leyla zana trial, as we always do. justice minister cicek promised us that in the next package of constitutional reforms, which i think is to be published this week, the state security courts would be scrapped. this is, of course, first-class news because these courts do not contribute to justice; they do not contribute to security. the turkish government fully appreciates the political importance of the zana case for the european parliament. as a strong turkophile, let me be quite clear that, if leyla zana and her colleagues are not released soon, it will be impossible for turkey's closest friends to argue that accession negotiations should be opened from december. no country can seriously contemplate european membership with nearly six thousand prisoners of conscience, no matter how controversial those people prove to be.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to join you today in discussing economic and employment policy. this debate is in response to the update of the broad economic policy guidelines and the report on the employment strategy produced by the commission in 2004. i would like to congratulate mrs randzio-plath and mrs hermange in particular on their speeches. the adoption by the commission of the so-called 'guidelines package', which combines the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, is further proof that rationalisation is bearing fruit. the rationalization process has not only synchronised the cycles of economic policy coordination and employment policy in the european union, but has also strengthened the complementarity and coherence between these two basic processes. the main objective of the rationalization and coordination of policies was to increase their effectiveness by placing more emphasis on implementation than on the annual development of guidelines. both the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines were adopted last year with a three-year perspective. it was clear from the outset that the guidelines should only be amended to take account of significant developments. in this context, as there are no significant developments, the three-year guidelines should be kept stable this year.by maintaining a stable strategy, we will be able to increase the visibility, predictability and impact of the european union's policies and enable them to continue effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission considers that the overall political strategy outlined in these documents is still valid. the 2004 update emphasises the integration of the 10 new countries in the framework of our policy coordination. i would like to refer in more detail to these two aspects, taking into account some of the comments made in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the european commission has confirmed the community's medium-term economic policy strategy as set out in the broad economic policy guidelines for the period 2003-05. the strategy has three main pillars: macroeconomic policies geared to growth and stability, economic reforms to increase growth potential and policies to enhance sustainability. this policy package focuses on the contribution that economic policies can make to achieving the lisbon objectives. the reasons for continuing the existing strategy and for making progress are obvious. first, economic developments are in line with the expectations which existed when the council adopted the present broad economic policy guidelines last year. as indicated in our new economic forecasts, the economies of the european union are on a recovery path which is expected to strengthen. i have, of course, noted what mrs randzio-plath said earlier about the concerns about recovery and growth and mrs hermange's reference in today's paper to the fact that the economy and growth are in a quagmire. in any event, the general macroeconomic policy framework is not negative. i would like to stress, and i think we should, that we must ensure that fiscal consolidation is given a new impetus when the recovery proceeds and that we do not make the mistakes that have been made in previous times in times of favourable economic conditions. secondly, to strengthen both the dynamism of growth and the resilience of the economy, we need to implement decisively the objectives we have set for structural reforms. in the first evaluation of the implementation of these guidelines in january, the commission recognised that some progress had been made. however, it was also clear that more progress on reforms was needed to ensure that the lisbon objectives were not jeopardised. the updating of the broad economic policy guidelines in 2004 focuses on the integration of the new member states, as part of our economic policy coordination. it is positive that in mrs randzio-plath's report and in the draft resolution you express your support for this objective. the economic challenges facing the new member states are not substantially different from those facing the present member states, only greater. the commission's medium-term economic strategy is able to meet the challenges of the accession countries. the synergy created by the interaction of macroeconomic policies and the necessary structural reforms will result in the gradual real convergence of these countries. this is the most important challenge facing the acceding countries, namely gradual real convergence. as regards the 2004 employment guidelines, i should first like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs hermange, for the dynamic way in which they have prepared the european parliament's opinion on the guidelines. it is very positive that the issues addressed in the report are all related to the 4 key policy areas as identified by the european task force on employment and in the 2004 joint employment report, confirmed by the spring european council, namely increasing the adaptability of workers and enterprises, attracting more people to the labour market, improving the quality of employment and investing in human capital. i therefore believe that we are essentially on the same page, that we have the same concerns and the same priorities for action in the years ahead. it is also important that you stress the need for a more rigorous evaluation of the performance of the member states in order to give impetus to the implementation of the employment strategy. i shall be referring very shortly to the commission's proposal for the 2004 employment guidelines. the commission proposes to maintain the guidelines as adopted by a council decision last july. as part of our joint efforts to streamline the economic and employment policy cycles of the european union, the employment guidelines, like the broad economic policy guidelines, follow a three-year cycle. the review of employment policy last year aimed to better address the key challenges of the labour market in the european union, so as to meet the lisbon objectives for 2010. this review emphasised the medium-term orientation and the definition of a policy framework which takes account of the diversity of the enlarged european union. the joint report on employment agreed by the european task force chaired by mr kok underlined the need to focus on monitoring the reforms undertaken by the member states rather than engaging in a process of further amendments to the guidelines. the spring european council also confirmed the need identified in the joint employment report to focus the employment process next year on the assessment of progress. the central issue in the next joint employment report should therefore be the response of the member states to the country-specific recommendations. this means that these recommendations should form the core of the national action plans to be submitted by the member states, both the current 15 and the new member states, in autumn 2004. in conclusion, i would like to say that the european commission welcomes the constructive approach of the european parliament, which focuses its amendments on the recitals. the european commission will take into account and support those amendments which improve some of the recitals in the explanatory statement in further negotiations with the council. i am absolutely convinced that the enormous challenge we face in achieving the lisbon objectives by 2010 makes it necessary to focus 100% on implementation, translating the challenges into political action.
mr president, i wish to thank mrs hermange for her report – i shall focus on employment – and also the commissioner for his statement this morning. mrs hermange has the correct approach: we are not seeking to amend the detail of the structure of the guidelines. when we agreed to the streamlining of the economic and employment guidelines last year, we implicitly agreed not to unpack the guidelines themselves until 2006 – the mid-point. that is the right approach: we need that stability in the guideline structure. however, we must acknowledge that we need to focus ever more upon the implementation of both the economic guidelines and in particular, perhaps, the employment guidelines. the problem lies there: member states are not implementing the guidelines properly. therefore, we have introduced a number of recitals that seek to focus upon key areas of implementation. for example, amendment 1 concentrates on research and development. with the streamlining of the broad economic and employment guidelines we have every right to expect a comprehensive european framework for investment in lifelong learning, research and development and infrastructure to create a european union engine for growth and to transform that growth into full and better employment and more social cohesion. that is what the lisbon process is about and we are falling far short of that at the moment. in our amendment 2 we focus on a couple of issues highlighted by the employment task force – the kok report – namely adaptability and lifelong learning. they are there in the employment guidelines. however, we must acknowledge that in all the national plans, to a greater or lesser extent, there are failures in achieving the targets laid down in those respects. amendment 3 concerns taking possession of the delivery of guidelines by national parliaments, social partners, ngos, and local and regional authorities. we need to encourage those tiers of government to take possession of the guidelines and ensure their proper implementation. i particularly welcome mrs hermange's amendment 6 on better harnessing of the structural funds for delivery of the guidelines. i also welcome amendment 7 to encourage companies to better anticipate economic, technical and industrial change. throughout this mandate, the committee on employment and social affairs has insisted on a proactive approach to the management of industrial change. she is right to make that call. finally, i know that mr bushill-matthews intends to table an oral amendment to amendment 5 to place emphasis upon the need to retain older people in the workforce. we would be happy to accept such an amendment.
madam president, i would like to confine my remarks to the hermange report, and start by saying this is not the speech that i had intended to make. i had hoped to be in a position to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. it was an excellent report but by the time it came out of our committee earlier this week a lot of the more excellent parts of it were unfortunately removed. what is left is still very useful, very positive, but it is a pale shadow of the excellent and very thorough work that she had put in. unfortunately her amendments were voted out by the pse group who were there in strength on monday. unfortunately, apart from herself and one other group vice president from the ppe-de group, i was the only representative of our group there. i have no quibble with the socialists for what they did in pursuing their agenda. they happen to believe they are right in saying there should be no legislative changes and i am not going to debate that particular point now. i congratulate them for their single-mindedness and the efficiency with which they pursued it. however, i do say to our colleagues, particularly our absent colleagues from this side of the house, that if we care about employment, as we do; if we care about unemployment, as we do; if we care about the social injustice that flows from unemployment, as we do; then we must be prepared to make this area a priority. although there is work simultaneously in other committees, we have to make certain that we can stand up to be counted, so that our view may prevail in these meetings and so that we can drive change. change is important on the issues of employment guidelines; i was delighted that the commissioner again reinforced the importance of the lisbon agenda, to which all sides of the house have agreed. however, if we are to deliver the lisbon agenda, it is not good enough simply to say that the guidelines will not change before 2006. similarly, it is not good enough to say it is entirely up to member states to make changes and implement the guidelines. the guidelines need to be strengthened and refocused and there is a lot of work both to do and to undo in this house in order to give more impetus to the lisbon process. finally, i would like to thank stephen hughes for saying that he is in full agreement of an oral amendment, which i believe the rapporteur will also support, concerning the importance of elderly people, which i will be proposing later this morning. i am delighted to have that agreement; i hope that augurs well for our relationship in the coming mandate. i know that stephen hughes hopes to be back; i also hope to be back, but next time with more support.
madam president, mrs hermange has produced a valuable report and notwithstanding the comments by mr bushill-matthews the emphasis remains on implementation. implementation is key to the employment guidelines and to the lisbon process. why is it so important for us? we understand that not only have the lisbon guidelines not been pursued and that progress is slow but also, as mr dimas commented, the new member states have to do what we have to do and they have the same problems. unfortunately size does matter in a situation where we must keep to the employment guidelines and yet overall unemployment and the budget deficit in the new member states are roughly double that of the eu 15. size definitely matters. that is why implementation is key, rather than new guidelines. implementation is important, as some people have touched on – in amendment 5 for example, concerning youth unemployment and as regards women in the workplace – but we also have to look at the issue of older workers, the rapidly ageing population of working age. also, as was briefly mentioned by the chair of our committee, the job shocks that our regions are now facing, such as the outsourcing and offshoring of work – issues that this house is at last taking seriously – will have to be incorporated into the lisbon goals. i am sure mr dimas will take account of that in his work in the coming months. the big issue here is to ensure not only that implementation is key, but also that there is better understanding among the main players – the trade unions and business organisations – of what the strategy is. this clearly does not yet exist in member states. it is vital with regard to this issue, which is one of the last the committee on employment will address before the end of the mandate, that we register that the players concerned by this lisbon goal are insufficiently aware of the strategy being pursued. also important are the quality of lifelong learning and the regional impact of issues like equal funding and market discrimination. all of these issues are vital and must remain within the lisbon goal and the employment guidelines. we must strengthen implementation. that is the key to today's debate and i welcome mrs hermange's report for that reason.
- the next item on the agenda is the vote.
mr poettering, we had a full debate on this subject yesterday. i will not allow another lengthy discussion. as regards the substance of your remark, i would remind you that the president put forward an alternative proposal which would have allowed the amendments to be voted on, and it was rejected by parliament. we have the president's decision and parliament's vote on how to proceed with the vote on the boogerd-quaak report. i do not intend to depart from that, so we shall stick to it no matter how many points of order are made.
- thank you for the clarification, mr baron crespo, but i'm not sure it was as useful as i had hoped! we have over 600 votes this morning. we can have fun - we can spend the next 30 to 40 minutes playing christmas games, or we can continue with the vote. i give the floor to mr podestà, who was mentioned and is therefore entitled to make a personal remark, but i do not allow a number of points to be made on the rules of procedure.
mr. galeote quecedo, you were not much help. because of your speech, which was not about what you said, i must now give the floor to all the others who have asked to speak on this subject!
- we shall look at that when we come to the vote on the report.
- if you wish, you can ask for a referral back to committee, but please wait for the vote in question.
- this is an appropriate time - as they are used to vigorous debates - to welcome the australian delegation to parliament. they are here to take part in the 27th interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and the australian parliament in strasbourg in june. (applause) the european parliament and the australian parliament have had direct political contact since 1981 and we look forward to continuing our interesting and successful dialogue.
mr gollnisch, the request has not yet been formally submitted. i shall be taking a position on the formal request when we come to the vote on the report. in reply to mr pannella's remark, i would point out that the president is present. i am happy to resume my own work, but if the president wishes to speak, he is welcome to do so.
- the only advice i would have taken this week was not to take the front seat on thursday morning! report (a5-0232/2004) by mr lulling, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on measures to be taken in the beekeeping sector before the vote
- thank you, mr rübig. it was certainly remarkable that the document was adopted in four months.
mr president, as i stated earlier, i have a very short oral amendment to amendment 5 that is acceptable not only to the rapporteur but also certainly to the pse, eldr and green groups. after the phrase 'facilitating the access of unemployed young people to their first job', we would like to add 'and also the employment/continuance in employment of older people'.
mr president, i just wish out point out, so that members are not in any way confused, that it is amendment 1 – the first vote on this report – which ascertains whether or not parliament is in favour of the theory of setting up a health scheme for former members. those who are in favour will vote 'yes'; those who wish to abandon their former colleagues will vote 'no'. (laughter)
- that was a very neutral way of saying it! (parliament adopted the resolution)
we're not going to reopen that negotiation. i give the floor to mr ribeiro e castro, who will formally request that the matter be referred back to committee.
- this is a very sensitive subject. i tried to be generous, but the rules of procedure are clear. you have one minute to speak for and one minute to speak against.
- mr gollnisch, i believe that mr santini made the request and that mr ribeiro e castro spoke about it. we shall now proceed to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) before the vote on the motions for resolutions:
mr president, as chairman-in-office of the college of quaestors, i wish to point out for the purposes of the rules that my group is present but not taking part in the vote.
i have noted your very important point, mr balfe. you always have the interests of your members in mind! before the vote on paragraph 44
- you're absolutely right. we voted on the item without those two words. those two words have been removed. you should have been informed of that. before the vote on paragraph 74
we'll continue to vote on the points individually. i could hear my good friend mr. pannella shouting, but i didn't know what he was trying to tell me. since you have obviously asked for the amendments to be voted on one by one, we shall do so.
i'm sorry, but you're wrong. i could have covered it all in one vote if i had wanted to. before the vote on recital c
- you are right again, mr santini, on recital 12. the services have already introduced the change you mention. they should have been informed of this before the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- i have had the privilege of being vice-president of the european parliament for 15 years and a member of the european parliament for 20 years. i will not be vice-president of the next parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their support and for allowing me to lead this parliament. more importantly, in a way, i want to thank the services that are doing an incredible job behind the scenes and not getting the recognition they deserve. (applause from the centre and the right)
i see you agree, mrs. mann. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, i wanted to speak on the brok report to explain why i believe this cooperation agreement to be vital for the promotion of cultural, economic and investment links between the eu and pakistan. i warmly welcome the agreement because trade is a means of opening up dialogue on those areas in which there are still major concerns about democracy and human rights. we know pakistan suffers from acute poverty and i hope that the approval of this agreement will help the government and people of pakistan to deal with the poverty issues within their country. constructive engagement between the eu and pakistan is urgently needed. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement. i appreciate there are still many concerns over human rights and democracy in pakistan, but these are highlighted in the resolution. this report and resolution clearly convey the importance that parliament attaches to upholding human rights and democracy. however, pakistan has made considerable progress in this area, and the most effective way of ensuring that this continues and is strengthened is through enhanced dialogue and cooperation rather than isolation.
- your timing is impeccable, but i'm a little nervous about you trying to be a new mr. fatuzzo.
mr president, i wish to give an explanation of vote to explain my extreme concern over the eurostat scandal and the european commission's failure to take responsibility. five years ago, almost to the day, the santer commission was forced to resign because it was 'difficult to find anyone with the slightest sense of responsibility'. that caused the collapse of the previous commission. nothing has changed, because no one has been prepared to take responsibility for eurostat. despite the fact that eur 5 million has gone missing; despite the fact that money has been channelled into bogus research by bogus companies, some of which it appears are owned by senior members of eurostat; despite the fact that taxpayers' money appears to have been channelled into staff perks – such as a riding school and a volleyball team – we have seen no resignations from the commission over this issue and no acceptance of responsibility. mr solbes mira's response seems to be just that he did not know what was happening. this seems to be a charter for commissioners just to tell their civil servants not to inform them of the dubious activities going on in their departments, so that, on the basis of the commission's analysis, the commissioner will get off scot-free. we know that mr solbes mira has resigned from the commission but not over this issue, so there is still a complete failure on the part of the european commission to take responsibility for this waste of taxpayers' money. that is a matter of extreme concern to me and my british conservative colleagues. i hope that before our vote on the motion of censure in may the commission will accept its responsibility and do something serious to take responsibility for eurostat and to clean up the eu and stop the unacceptable waste and abuse of taxpayers' money.
in writing. - the british labour party members voted against paragraph 53. we cannot accept the criticism and the general content of this paragraph. nevertheless, we voted in favour of the resolution with our reservations because of the importance of this timely report.
mr president, many of us today have voted for the trade agreement with pakistan in the belief that this is a sensible and essential step forward to progress the issue of human rights and further democratisation of pakistan. it may at first seem a little peculiar to see who is voting on the one hand for the trade agreement while at the same time supporting the resolution on the issue of human rights in pakistan. i do not believe there is a contradiction. the votes today are quite sensible and straightforward. we have pushed forward the issue of developing economic and trade links with pakistan. we have pushed forward the issue of developing pakistan's economy which, i believe, was an important step in ensuring that we will see further democratisation in pakistan, further work towards the development of human rights, and fulfilment of the demands made in our second resolution which i was happy to support. it is a good day for pakistan, for kashmir, and for the indian subcontinent and i am very pleased to have been here today.
in writing. - the labour party in this parliament reiterates that if we are to pursue our policy of multilateral cooperation, positive engagement with the united states is necessary, not merely criticism in areas where there are disagreements. in particular, the premature withdrawal of troops from iraq will only create a further threat to the security of the iraqi people. the solution can only be found in the transfer of political control with the support of the un to support the creation of a peaceful, democratic and prosperous iraq.
- the votes are in. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
commission. mr president, the ottawa treaty is a corner-stone of multilateral disarmament policies. its political success and practical impact have become a guiding light for multilateral efforts to eradicate the legacies of hatred and lingering threat left by conflicts. since its entry into force significant progress has been made by the international community: 141 countries have ratified the mbt, 9 more countries have signed, over 110 countries are not using anti-personnel landmines, more than 30 million stockpiled mines have been destroyed by states parties to the convention and, last but not least, mine action programmes are being successfully implemented in many mine-affected countries. however, much still remains to be done. a number of countries continue to use anti-personnel mines, and some are also believed to be continuing to produce landmines. approximately 65 countries are still affected to some degree by mines and unexploded ordnance and, unfortunately, new areas of conflict are adding to this list. global estimates of new landmine casualties each year vary between 15 000 and 20 000 people, many of whom are civilians, including children. the upcoming review conference on 29 november to 3 december 2004 in nairobi will be a major opportunity to take stock of past achievements and the lessons learned and to trace the course of action for the years ahead. what has the eu done so far and what does it intend to do in preparation for this review conference? the importance attached by the eu to the goals of the ottawa convention became a tangible fact in 1997 when parliament created the anti-personnel landmine budget line. in march 2000, the first anniversary of the entry into force of the ottawa treaty, the european commission issued a communication and forwarded to parliament and the council a draft regulation on the reinforcement of the eu contribution to the fight against landmines. in july 2001 parliament and the council adopted the legal instrument and its financial envelope. these lay the foundations of an integrated and focused european policy. in 2002, the new legal instrument was put into practice through the multiannual strategy for the years 2002-2004. the strategy is the first of its kind since the anti-personnel landmine regulations entered into force. it constitutes an operative framework for coordinating and prioritising eu-financed projects in this field. it contains an overall approach and detailed programming covering 33 countries for an average yearly ec contribution of about eur 42 million. the commission is in the process of launching the multiannual strategy for 2005 to 2007. the figures here also contain the contribution from sources within the european development fund and reflect the total level of activity we are supporting. the setting of priorities will be conducted on an informed and coherent basis. we will do this against a background of perspectives and goals shared with the international community and reflecting a jointly-defined orientation and policy. we will ensure that in the preparatory work for the nairobi summit we coordinate within the european union both at government level and non-governmental level, and also with a wide range of non-state actors. this consultation is important if we are to create 'ownership', within a very broad framework, for what we do in nairobi. since the adoption of the apl regulation, the european union has played a substantial and visible role in the fight against landmines, both in political terms and also in terms of financial commitments. looking at the broad picture for the years 2000 to 2002, contributions to mine action from the eu member states and the european community stood at a sum total of eur 410 million. we hope to be able to continue our engagement at this impressive level. we know that failure to award sufficient priority to mine action would have enormous human costs and render its development fragile and fragmented. the mine threat can be overcome. the deadlines were set in the ottawa convention and clearly challenge us to swiftly eradicate this scourge. the nairobi summit will be an appeal to all of us to do more and to do it faster. parliament's resolution provides a forceful and positive signal in this direction.
mr president, by definition all modern military weapons are a source of death and destruction, but antipersonnel mines are particularly pernicious as, after the cessation of hostilities, their continued presence results in the ongoing death and mutilation of innocent civilians, particularly children. this often causes, for prolonged periods of time, massive social and economic problems in countries, many of which are already amongst the poorest in the world and suffering from the ravages of long-term war and disease. that is why i particularly support the 1997 ottawa mine ban treaty on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines and their eventual destruction. i congratulate the 141 states which have ratified or acceded to this treaty and call upon the four eu member states remaining after enlargement on 1 may which have not yet done so – namely, estonia, latvia, finland and poland – to do so without any further delay. although it is true that some 68 states have destroyed more than 31.5 million mines, it is estimated that 78 countries still have between 200 and 250 million antipersonnel mines stockpiled, that tragically there are still between 15 000 and 20 000 new landmine victims per year and that landmines still litter 82 countries around the world. much still remains to be done, to echo the words of commissioner nielson. the eu has pledged eur 240 million for the period 2002-2009 to support the total ban and assist with mine clearance, victim assistance and stockpile destruction, and this support is at least part conditional on the recipient country demonstrating a commitment towards accession to the convention. i would also like to pay tribute to my colleague, mr van orden, who has been particularly active in this campaign. i also wish every success to the november 2004 nairobi conference, which seeks to review the operation of this convention and what further measures can be taken to implement its contents, in particular how to encourage armed, non-state actors to ban the use of antipersonnel landmines without recognising their legitimacy. this is particularly salient in africa – the venue of the conference – which has been blighted by a series of tragic civil wars from zaire to liberia and sierra leone and which are characterised by insurgents and rebels, often heavily armed and financed by third parties. i do not, however, accept – unlike some members of this house – that this ban can be automatically extended to the legitimate military use of other munitions, such as anti-tank mines, as they, for instance, are less readily available to non-regular forces, because they are much more expensive and tend to be laid in a well-mapped and systematic fashion, which enables speedy clearance in peacetime after the cessation of hostilities. furthermore, they are not capable of being detonated by the foot of an innocent child, as is the case with antipersonnel mines. these issues need to be considered separately as, otherwise, there is a danger of losing cross-party political consensus on this important issue. i also support that this parliament sends a delegation of members of this house, as observers, to the conference so that they can report back to the house on the progress in this very important area.
mr president, nigeria is africa's most populous state. it is a regional superpower and has made progress in terms of democracy, as well as contributing to vital peacekeeping military operations to settle regional conflicts. it is also a member of the acp and the commonwealth. i have many nigerians living in london, my constituency. like a number of other countries with co-existing muslim and christian communities, such as pakistan, indonesia and egypt, there have been periodic clashes. this most recent outburst of violence in the nigerian state of plateau is particularly troubling as not only has the violence been horrendous, but also there is evidence that islamist extremists have been recruited from neighbouring muslim countries, such as chad and niger, possibly with international islamic terrorist connections. sadly, nigeria is a country divided by ethnic and religious differences and every effort must be made by the government to build solidarity and social cohesion nationally. the introduction of sharia law since 1999 has been particularly divisive and we have witnessed the imposition – although not yet carried out – of lapidation, or stoning to death sentences on women convicted of the so-called crime of adultery. it is only a matter of time before this issue resurfaces to disturb the consciences again of the western world. in the past, i have personally called in this house for the expulsion of nigeria from the commonwealth in the event of such a barbaric punishment occurring. after all, the 1999 nigerian constitution guarantees total freedom of belief, and the country has signed international convenants on human rights. therefore, i appeal to the federal and state authorities of this big african country to rapidly re-establish law and order, conduct a full investigation into the identity of the culprits and, in particular, where there has been outside provocation or infiltration, bring all those concerned speedily to justice.
mr president, could you advise us before we vote as to whether there is any significance in the fact that the electorate on this issue will be different? two weeks ago the european parliament had a different composition from what it will have tomorrow. is it right to re-run a vote with a different electorate? i would have thought that there is at least a question mark over that issue and i request that formal advice be provided on that point before we vote tomorrow. i agree with mrs buitenweg, and my group opposed re-voting on this matter because it had already decided. the question is in the lap of the court of justice. it is important to know whether procedurally we are entitled to vote a second time.
mr president, just over 20 years ago i had the immense privilege of working closely with altiero spinelli when he was the general rapporteur on the draft treaty that we are commemorating today and i was a young, enthusiastic member of parliament's secretariat. it was in many ways for me a dream come true: i was fresh from coordinating the 'yes' campaign in britain in the referendum on our membership of the european community in 1975. i had been the coordinator of the 'yes' campaign at oxford university. i had then led a group of students to rome to demonstrate outside a european council meeting in favour of having – novel idea – direct elections to this european parliament – one of spinelli's main campaign themes at that time. so to then work with spinelli was an immense honour and privilege. i found i was working with a remarkable man, who 40 years before the draft treaty was already making history when, as a political prisoner of mussolini – which he was for 17 years – he co-authored the ventotene manifesto, which already in 1941 said that: 'if our struggle against fascism is successful and if we win this war, then it will all have been in vain if it simply leads to the re-establishment of the old system of totally sovereign nation states in shifting alliances. the main challenge after the war must be to bind the countries of europe together in a structure that develops their common interests and makes war impossible.' that text circulated throughout the anti-fascist resistance movements during the last years of the war and was one of the main motivations, the main ideals, that helped spread the european message at that time, well ahead of the european movements convention in the hague. forty years later spinelli was here helping parliament to produce its draft treaty on european union. he was a man with great ambition, but who knew when to compromise. he was a man with daring methods but willing to build consensus. he also realised that to succeed his project should not be seen just as his own personal project: he was willing to share the credit – the ownership – of the draft treaty that this parliament produced. he himself never referred to it as the spinelli draft treaty. he ensured that there were six co-rapporteurs from all the different groups appointed to work with him. he knew that this project was a project of parliament. he described himself not as the author but as the midwife who had allowed parliament to deliver this baby which needed then to be nurtured. the baby was important. initially, it only helped produce the single european act. many people were not impressed. however, if we now look back with a certain sense of perspective, we can see that cumulatively it started a process leading to four successive igcs, the single act, maastricht, amsterdam and nice and now the constitution coming up. incrementally it has transformed the european community of 1984 into the quite different european union that we have today, a union with a wider scope of responsibility, with at least partially more effective institutions and with greater democratic accountability. step by step, spinelli's achievement can now be seen in perspective. however, the lesson for us within parliament is that spinelli's method was one of trying to build up consensus. he said: 'this parliament brings together representatives of all of europe's main political parties. we must use that to thrash out a consensus here and the message can then be taken back home to convince our parties and our governments in our countries and create a political momentum that will be irresistible.' he was successful in building up a consensus. this was a time, let us not forget, of great euroscepticism – the buzzword in those days was eurosclerosis – and when governments were telling us not to change the treaties as it would only lead to a step backwards. the president of the council, leo tindemans, and the president of the commission, gaston thorn, came to the committee on institutional affairs, as it was then, to ask us not to do it. yet parliament persevered and built up this consensus which reopened the treaties – a taboo subject for many years. nobody wanted to change the treaties: the tindemans report avoided proposing treaty changes and the three wise men report in 1979 advised against changing the treaties. parliament had the courage to say that the treaties must be reopened and our basic constitutional texts must be re-examined. spinelli patiently built up a compromise that was supported in the end by 88% of parliament when it was adopted. every single political group at that time had a majority supporting it. even 79% of the british conservatives supported the spinelli draft treaty – they then sat in a different political group. now they have joined the epp-ed group. i cannot say they have become more european – perhaps mr poettering should work on them a little more. that is one group that seems to have gone backwards. nonetheless, at that time spinelli was able to build up a remarkable consensus, and it worked. by thrashing out a project here in this house – which represents the full spectrum of public opinion in europe – a compromise acceptable to such a wide majority, we were able to set in motion a process which has taken us to where we are today and where the draft constitution will be the crowning glory of spinelli's efforts. we must ensure that constitution is adopted. (applause)
mr president, i very much regret that this will be my last speech to this parliament, having been here for the past 25 years. i have to retire owing to health reasons, but i want to express my deepest gratitude to my colleagues in this parliament, and of course to the commission and the council, for the outstanding support that they gave to peace in northern ireland. the special programme for peace and reconciliation and the international fund for ireland have done outstanding work in giving great hope to our young people. (applause) i also owe a lot to this parliament and to strasbourg in terms of my own thinking. i always tell the story of the first time i came here in 1979. i went for a walk across the bridge from strasbourg in france to kehl in germany and i stopped and meditated. i thought then that if i had stood there 30 years ago at the end of the second world war – the worst half century in the history of the world in which 50 million human beings were slaughtered – and had said to myself 'don't worry, it's all over, they will all be united very soon', i would have been sent to a psychiatrist. but it happened, and it is something that in my opinion the european union does not devote enough attention to. the european union is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution. for that reason, the principles at the heart of it should be sent to every area of conflict. i know what i am talking about in saying that, because the three principles at the heart of the european union are exactly the same as the three principles at the heart of our special agreement in northern ireland. principle number one is respect for difference. all conflict is about difference, whether it is a matter of race, religion or nationality. the answer to difference is to respect it, because it is an accident of birth. principle number two is institutions that respect differences. all member states are represented in the council of ministers, the european commission and the european parliament. the third and most important principle is what i call the healing process. the countries involved worked together in their common interests – for economic development, for example – spilling their sweat and not their blood. as they did that, they eroded the divisions of centuries and as a result the new europe has evolved and is still evolving. those same three principles are at the heart of our agreement in northern ireland. both identities fully respect principle number one, respect for difference. as regards principle number two, institutions, a proportional assembly and a proportional government will involve all sections of society. when they are in place, the third principle will come into play: working together in common interests, spilling sweat and not blood. the barriers of the past in ireland will be eroded and a new ireland will evolve. the world is a much smaller place now that we are living through the biggest revolution in the history of the world in terms of technology, telecommunications and transport. we are therefore in a stronger position to shape that world, particularly in this very historic week – who could have dreamt that the whole of europe would be together? given that it is a smaller world and that we are in a stronger position to shape it, the european union should decide that our first objective in this new century is a world in which there is no longer any war or conflict. in order to ensure that is the case – and i am making this appeal to the council of ministers – the european union should put in place a commissioner, backed by a commission department for peace and reconciliation, whose function would be to send to every area of conflict in the world not arms or soldiers, but the philosophy of european union. this commissioner's role would be to promote the dialogue about that philosophy and to help create a world in which there is no longer any war or any conflict. i believe that is now possible. finally, once again i express my deepest gratitude to you all for the great support that you give to peace on my own streets. thank you very much indeed and i regret very much that i am leaving this great parliament. (loud applause)
- the next item is the general debate on the future of the enlarged union.
- the general debate will begin with statements by the council and the commission - towards a european constitution.
mr president, it has been a great privilege to serve in a parliament that has made such great progress in delivering for europe the constitutional settlement that it needs. parliament has become now an assured player in the constitutive process and we have assisted europe to answer definitively the old question about whether the union could widen and deepen at the same time. the answer is certainly 'yes'. we expect the european council now to show the political will to bring the igc to a quick and successful conclusion and to draft the durable, efficient and effective system of democratic government that we need to strengthen the union and its place in world affairs. however, it is vital that parliament, which has played such a crucial part in the igc so far, does not fade at the final phase. president cox and our representatives, mr brok and mr hänsch, must carry on playing a full part in the negotiations and resist any weakening of parliament's powers of codecision and assent. there are some worrying signs in this respect and commissioner vitorino is quite right to warn us. why, for example, is the irish presidency suddenly seeking in its latest proposals to remove parliament's power of codecision with respect to the structural funds? perhaps minister roche could explain. if the council wishes to encumber itself with unanimity upon financial questions, that is its own problem, but it cannot be permitted to evade parliamentary accountability. i wish to support the committee's request that, should there be a crisis at the igc, the president should call a special meeting of the conference of presidents. despite our dispersal across 25 electoral campaigns, we would be able to reassemble quickly to reinforce the president's negotiating position. please remember that a negative assessment by parliament on the final conclusions of the igc would certainly scupper referendum campaigns wherever they spring up.
mr president, from 1 may we can celebrate one of the greatest achievements of the post-war era. few imagined 20 years ago that the borders of the european union would extend to the baltic states and poland. then we faced a hostile soviet union that held central and eastern europe in its iron grip. the cold war was evident, the nuclear stand-off only too real and many european peoples were under the yoke of one-party socialist dictatorships. this is a time for thanksgiving that we are able to sit alongside democratically elected representatives of those previously suppressed peoples. liberal democracy has triumphed. we also rejoice that these nations are members of the nato alliance, the most successful defence organisation the world has ever seen. warfare between the nations of europe is unthinkable. we have secured a great prize and we must build on it. this week my party marks the 25th anniversary of the election of margaret thatcher as prime minister of the united kingdom, whose government i was privileged to join. we should recall today the major contribution she has made to the cause of freedom on this continent. she did perhaps more than any western political statesman of our age in confronting the communists and bringing about the collapse of the iron curtain. as one who served on the convention, i know there will be many debates on the future of this continent in the coming years, including through future treaties. my party has a clear vision of a europe of nation states. the new member states now join these debates. the peoples of europe want peace, freedom and security. we must secure these goals and we do so in a spirit of openness and mutual respect. however, europe should meet the aspirations of its people in partnership with the united states. with enlargement the atlanticist cause will be strengthened. in the economic sphere, the new member states bring vitality and experience of the need for economic reform. we must all become more competitive and abandon the economic ways of the past. whatever our views on the kind of europe we want to see, this week we can celebrate the reuniting of the nations of europe. it is a cause that my party has long championed and we say unreservedly to those who join us here today: you are most welcome.
mr president, as a dedicated opponent of the whole eu process, i have to admit that on the face of it you are having a good week. it has been a triumph for euronationalism and that is exactly what it is: a form of nationalism that never takes 'no' for an answer. i find the language that is used fascinating. i keep hearing people talking about the 're-unification' of europe and i wonder to which particular model they are referring. i wonder, do these ten new members really know what they have let themselves in for? i can fully understand their reasons for joining nato, where governments cooperate together, but the eu that they joined last weekend is about to become a different eu in just six weeks' time, because with the constitution comes a new legal order. i very much hope that the governments of those ten member states give their citizens a chance to vote again in referenda, because they will be voting on something quite different from what they have been sold at the moment. certainly the czechs and the hungarians will well remember brezhnev's doctrine of limited sovereignty. what they are doing is now entering a similar system – they just call it pooled sovereignty. frankly, this constitution must be unacceptable to any democrat, because the terms of article 59, the terms of withdrawal, are totally unacceptable. people are very soon going to learn that in this place nothing is what it seems. cooperation means coercion. competence means power, and the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is paving the way for an appalling form of centrist eu control. i can only say that, in my view, the gap that exists between the political classes of europe and the ordinary men and women of europe has never been wider. more is the pity.
mr president, maladministration is not confined to brussels: all political structures are imperfect. man is fallen and some people will sometimes give in to temptation. what is peculiar to brussels is the way in which allegations of malpractice are dealt with. the usual response of the eu authorities, faced with evidence of corruption, is not to address the issues raised but to impugn the motives of the critic. thus we have seen the disgraceful way in which paul van buitenen and martha andreasen were treated and the extraordinary arrest of hans-martin tillack. in the looking glass world of brussels, it is not those engaging in fraud who are harassed and bullied, but those exposing it. this inability to handle even the most narrow and qualified criticism can be seen in the reaction to the censure motion on which we have just voted. rather than accepting a mild rebuke, the eu establishment went into overdrive, cajoling and threatening the various signatories in an attempt to prevent the motion from seeing the light of day. any lingering doubts about whether the motion was justified have surely been removed by the attempts to smother it. i hope that people beyond this house will extrapolate from what has just happened. if this is how the eu administers itself, are we wise to invite it to assume control over huge new swathes of our national affairs? if this is how brussels exercises the powers it currently has, what are we thinking of that we should be proposing to give it new ones? my masters, are we mad?
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion of censure because i believe that this commission has failed to deliver the reforms it was asked to get on with five years ago. we have had fine words, a lot of wind and bluster from the commissioner in charge of reforms, mr kinnock, but it seems that although the commissioner can talk the talk he has failed to walk the walk. i was elected on a manifesto commitment to fight fraud and maladminstration and it is very difficult to explain to my voters, the good people of louth and horncastle or of derbyshire, why for ten years the accounts have not been signed off by the european court of auditors. these problems are significant and typified by eurostat and have failed to be addressed. this motion of censure is not just about eurostat but about the management culture that this exhibits, which goes unchecked. mr solbes might well have gone, but the lack of political responsibility within the commission remains. this commission deserves to be censured and future commissioners need to know that they will be made politically responsible for the actions of those they direct.
mr president, i felt obliged to vote for the motion of censure because of the commission's incompetence and lack of financial control as manifested in the whole eurostat affair. it is indeed bizarre that the only person detained in connection with this sorry episode is the journalist who exposed it. i also took the opportunity to register my disapproval of the way the commission has deliberately ignored the will of this house with regard to aid for hospitals in belarus, which are woefully ill-equipped to treat the cancers – particularly in children – which have occurred as a direct result of the chernobyl disaster. two years running we voted to allocate resources from underspent budget lines to buy this much-needed equipment. so far not one penny has arrived. my constituents in scarborough and whitby and i are appalled that money languishes in accounts in brussels when children are dying of diseases that could be treated.
mr president, as i hope everyone in this house knows, eur 5 million went missing at eurostat. i believe this is an unacceptable waste of taxpayers' money. taxpayers whom i represent across the united kingdom's capital – in barnet, enfield, croydon – are concerned that the tax they are paying, which is channelled to the european commission, is not being properly accounted for. this is a situation that has gone on for far too long. just a little over five years ago it was said of the santer commission that it was difficult to find anyone with the slightest sense of responsibility. it saddens me that the situation has not changed and it saddens me that so many people in this house voted for business as usual. for these reasons i voted to support this motion of censure because it is unacceptable that the commission should continue to evade responsibility for its actions and vital that it should continue properly to police the funds which the taxpayer entrusts to it.
mr president, in 1999 commissioner kinnock was given the task of cleaning up the commission's accounting and eliminating fraud. he has failed spectacularly. his main achievement has been to persecute the successive whistleblowers who have revealed the appalling debts of the commission's failure. so far the only person arrested in the eurostat scandal has been the journalist who broke the story. we get nothing but excuses and cover-ups. how am i supposed to justify to my constituents in leicestershire or northamptonshire the fact that the admitted level of waste and fraud in the eu institutions at eur 5 billion is as much as the uk's annual net budget contribution. i was elected on a conservative party manifesto to oppose fraud and maladministration. i therefore had no alternative but to support this motion of censure and i am proud to have done so.
mr president, i voted for the motion of censure because it was fully in accordance with the manifesto on which i was elected to this house. the european commission has taken no effective action on fraud and maladministration beyond persecuting the journalist who exposed the whole affair and the whistleblowers. unfortunately, many members have succumbed to the bullying of the commission and therefore did not back the motion, which is to their shame. nevertheless, i hope the commission will take note of the sentiment and clean up its act. my constituents in northumberland, tyne and wear, durham and cleveland demand that the commission put an end to the culture of casual misappropriation of taxpayers' money that exists in so many of our european institutions.
- in writing. - british conservative members of parliament have taken an active part in formulating questions on eurostat and have played a major role in bringing the issue to the attention of the general public. we do not believe that the commission has accepted political responsibility for the shortcomings which have emerged in this case. we believe that the commission has received a very clear message from the motion for a resolution on eurostat adopted on 22 april 2004, which:- states that the commission has failed to draw the appropriate conclusions from the eurostat affair and that it has not assumed political responsibility, either collectively or individually,- clarifies parliament's plan to continue to monitor and monitor the development of the ongoing eurostat surveys and any legal action with a view to proposing further reforms. following the original motion of censure against the commission, the commissioner responsible, pedro solbes, has resigned and returned to spanish politics. in these circumstances, we do not think it would be appropriate for the whole commission to resign, but we urge the commission to take account of the serious concerns expressed and to begin immediately to work on solving the problems outlined in parliament's resolution.
in writing. - together with my british conservative colleagues, i have actively investigated and raised issues of fraud, waste and mismanagement in the eu institutions, and we have played a major role in highlighting these issues to the general public. following the initial motion of censure against the commission, commissioner solbes resigned and returned to spanish politics. it is no longer reasonable to support a proposal involving the whole commission in these circumstances and the policy of our delegation has therefore been to abstain. however, it is important that the commission takes seriously the concerns expressed in the resolution on eurostat adopted by the european parliament on 22 april 2004, which states that the commission has failed to draw the appropriate conclusions from the eurostat affair and has not assumed political responsibility, either collectively or individually, and clarifies the parliament's plan to continue to monitor and oversee the development of ongoing eurostat surveys and possible legal action with a view to proposing further reforms. the commission's increased accountability and control over the eu budget and much better management and the establishment of the powers of parliament to dismiss individual commissioners. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 137 (1))
mr president, i would like to join with you in thanking the irish presidency for everything it has done so far, in particular in ensuring the success of this enormously historic occasion of the welcoming of the countries of central and eastern europe, which, as other speakers have said, will go down in the annals of history. i would like to contribute a few thoughts at this stage. this morning speakers have been talking about the past, of jean monnet and altiero spinelli. i would like to give a few ideas of how one might see the future. i am not sure that i share the commission's idea that we should be looking at enlargement as the sole focus of our energies. it is true that within the european parliament we now have a fantastic variety of representation of traditions and cultures, but this is not what europe is going to be about over the next five to ten years. in the last 20 years we have seen this question of enlargement go together with the deepening of the union. we are now at a point where we see the limits to competence and to the geographical expansion of the union being reached. therefore, i have three remarks to make. firstly, when a new commission is appointed, we need some vision and strategy of how to handle the internal problems of the union. the question arises in our own parliament of how we are to handle the vast array of different political parties, 25 nationalities and 20 different languages. but, perhaps more importantly for our electorate, we must determine how to remain competitive in the global economy and how to ensure the internal security of our citizens. these are debates that will come later this afternoon. however, for ourselves today, we face the question of how to ensure that the european union will be a player on the world stage, how to handle the questions of aids in africa, how to contribute towards peacekeeping, and how to ensure that the union has a presence in the world. a few weeks ago, we adopted mr brok's resolution on how we would like to work with our transatlantic friends, the united states, as we move from a community of values to a community of action, so that together we can see how a global system will work. in the next few years we will need to think of how the european union can really make an impact on the global stage, as a partner rather than a rival of the united states. therefore, on the question of how we are to handle enlargement, the majority of my group would be in favour of consolidation of the union rather than continuing enlargement simply because countries feel that they meet the criteria. the essential clause in the copenhagen criteria is that we should take account of the absorptive capacity of the european union in order to welcome countries as they would like to be welcomed and as we have welcomed the ten central and eastern european countries today. i would urge in the coming months that we look at the provisions on privileged partnerships under the constitutional treaty. not everybody has to join the union in order to meet the requirements of their foreign policies satisfactorily. we in the union have to be sure to coordinate everything that is available to us in a financial, political and economic way – as the president-in-office of the council has said for the turkish side of cyprus, which is not yet able to join the european union. we must find the legal basis, the means by which we control the funds, and deal with a whole array of different things to enable us to create a stable, prosperous and secure environment for citizens of the european union to live in. in conclusion, when we look to the future, at enlargement and our neighbours, we in the european union must be more prepared to look strategically at our own interests. what do we want, where do we want to go and what do we want to say to our citizens so that we can live in peace within our frontiers and contribute to global peace outside them? for the majority of my group, this means that we need to think in terms of consolidation over the coming period, rather than enlargement. in time we can enlarge, yet under no account should we enlarge so quickly that we undermine the european union, which we have built so strongly in the last 40 years.
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group i would like to congratulate the irish presidency on the way it has conducted business. it has been a delight to work with minister roche in particular. the irish presidency has set a model of transparency and cooperation within the parliament. today – which has been very much a day of celebration – it is important to remember just how far we have come in the european union in a very short period of time. i remember visiting lithuania a few weeks after independence. it was then a country with huge energy shortages, tremendous dislocation, soviet troops still on its soil and tremendous insecurity. it is hard to imagine that, in the short period of 15 years, lithuania has managed to join the eu. this is a sign of what the eu can achieve when we are determined to set off down a particular road and not let obstacles hinder us. it is often said that this is a historic enlargement – it is indeed. if i can return again to lithuania, one of the most spectacular events in my life was a visit to the kgb museum in vilnius where my blood ran cold. this enlargement shows that the cold war is finally at an end and we should remember that in those revolutions of 1989 and 1990, a number of people died to have the freedom to join organisations like the eu. we should remember their sacrifice. when we finish celebrating, we ought to realise that all we have done is reach the end of the beginning of the eu. we now finally have a european union which is europe-wide. it is not complete – and i disagree with mr elles, we should be moving forward in relation to romania, bulgaria and turkey – but it is a europe-wide eu. we must now make this eu work for the benefit of its citizens. the hard part really begins today. in order to do that, we must start by getting away from endless discussions about processes and start talking about outcomes and policies. that is why it is important to agree on a constitution and then move on and look at how we benefit eu citizens. our priorities in this enlarged europe must be to have more and better jobs: not to talk, but to deliver. it is worth noting that the ten new countries have all had to go through a process of being investigated on a yearly basis by the commission on their progress towards fulfilling the requirements for membership. perhaps we should apply that same process to the existing 15 member states, so that instead of promising to do things, people actually do them. that must be our priority. we also have to look at how we develop legislation which can be properly implemented. we need to move our focus away from simply developing legislation to looking at how it is implemented and where it is achieving the objectives that we set out. we must also have more and better security. enlargement has to deliver a safer europe for our citizens, a europe safe from criminals, drug runners, terrorists and people traffickers. that is what the citizens are going to look for in our enlarged europe. part of that security agenda must be that we do not become eurocentric. this enlarged europe must be for the benefit of the world as a whole. that is why i hope – and i am glad commissioner nielson is here – that we see no slackening of our commitments to development policy, no slackening of our commitments to meet the millennium development goals and that we redouble our efforts to develop better relationships with our neighbours. we should bear in mind that in kaliningrad in particular, we have a perfect example of how we need to proceed. how we succeed in working with kaliningrad will dictate how we succeed in working with the rest of the world. we should celebrate today, but we should also remember that we must start working hard from now on to make this enlarged europe work for the benefit of our citizens.
madam president, i should like to express my strong support for the policy of the commission and the council on cyprus. it is clear now that the union must move swiftly to replace the united nations as the principal force for peace and reconciliation upon that sad, divided island. to assist that process, the european parliament should, as soon as we reassemble, set up a special relationship with the north cypriot parliamentary assembly. i should like to request that the commission and the council consider supporting appropriate court cases brought by turkish cypriots aggrieved that they have been deprived of the franchise for the european parliamentary elections.
mr president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to commissioner vitorino. he said at the beginning of his contribution that it would be our last opportunity to hear him. i hope that is not true and that those members who return to the new parliament will again have the pleasure of working with him. i am sure colleagues will agree he has been one of the best and most accessible of all the commissioners. he has worked closely with us in our committee on a very difficult dossier and very challenging topics. (applause)it is our joint challenge to enable everyone in the new wider europe to live freely in a safer world, of which europe is just one part. it sometimes seems that we are playing around with a jigsaw puzzle and do not even know what all the pieces are. we certainly do not know yet how they fit together. mr hernández mollar spoke of the deep-rooted challenges we face. in the work of our committee on citizens' rights and freedom, the challenge must be to ensure that despite deep-rooted changes we are still able to maintain the rights of over 400 million eu citizens to freedom of movement, a decent education and a decent home. the enlarged europe must not be an excuse for us to replace the iron curtain with a division between rich and poor people and rich and poor countries. rights have to be equal wherever you live within this new europe, whatever the colour of your skin, your ethnicity, your religion or whether you have no religion at all. earlier this afternoon there were some bigoted contributions from the other side of the chamber about the dominance of christianity in europe and how important that was. i reject that. it has no place in these debates because people's rights should not be affected by religion, gender, origin or age. we must do everything we can to protect minorities and to give them freedom from oppression. this includes the rights, for example, of the roma people in some of the eastern european countries. the commissioner was right when he said that enlargement is a real challenge and it is not one that we have by any means addressed yet. we have the challenge of the external frontiers, to which he referred. in our efforts to control those frontiers and stop supplies of drugs and weapons, we must not make a barrier between our wealthier 25 countries and the poorer states just outside those new frontiers. i am sure, mr vitorino, you share with us the desire to make certain that there is justice in this enlarged europe. you spoke of companies and businesses. that must continue and include freedom of the press – not closing down newspapers, as we have seen in some countries. there is a right to free television, and free media, not those dominated by a few people with vested interests. there is a lot for us to do. commissioner, you have referred to many of the points this afternoon. i shall just mention a couple more. we must ensure that there is no oppression of those people who wish to move around, to exercise their right to free movement. you. have referred to the hysteria in some of the press about that. the right to access asylum must be reinforced, because we in this parliament and the commission are guardians of those rights: the right to asylum for those in need. the commission is one of the guardians of those treaties and of those rights. we can look forward to the future with some optimism. if there is anyone listening who is in a position to look for a new president of the commission, my suggestion – for what it is worth – would be you, commissioner vitorino. i hope that will be taken on board. we thank you for all you have done and i thank mr hernández mollar and other colleagues on the committee for everything they have done over the last few years.
mr president, i would also like to pay tribute to the work of commissioner vitorino over the last five years. he really has been a splendid commissioner for justice and home affairs. i hope we will see more of him, not least because he would help us achieve in justice and home affairs the equivalent of the lisbon objective to make europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. why do we not have a parallel formal objective, perhaps the tampere objective, to make the enlarged european union the international beacon of human rights, protection of civil liberties and keeping people safe? in justice and home affairs there is not the same sense of zeal from ministers about promoting freedom as about promoting security. security is an aspect of freedom because no-one who is unsafe is free, but freedom is also an element in security and no-one is secure if their privacy is invaded or they are wrongly imprisoned or subject to discrimination. but the council has failed to speak out against guantanamo bay internment and is trying to impose an agreement with the us on air passenger data transfers in breach of european data protection laws. it has also allowed restrictions on freedom of movement, as my hungarian colleague has said. in the accession treaties there is a jha safeguard clause, but it is focused exclusively on monitoring implementation of mutual recognition measures and framework decisions in criminal law. there is no clause which will check whether asylum seekers are being left destitute, equal rights are being denied to gay and lesbian people, or ethnic minority people are being abused. we must have a mechanism of ongoing peer review whereby we have mutual monitoring of the quality of member states' justice systems. on immigration we need much better management in the future. member states have agreed most of the common asylum policy, but have lowered standards of protection to do so. very little is agreed for streamlining the red tape for legal migrants and there is an alarming absence of progressive and active engagement in how to respect diversity and have imaginative integration policies. the ceremony of raising the ten new flags yesterday was wonderful and moving, but the image it presented was exclusively white. in my city, one-third of the population is from ethnic minorities. we have to do better to serve our whole population with just and inclusive policies.
mr president, i rise to say a few words of farewell. that will probably make many people happy and it might make some sad. it does not make me necessarily glad but, because of now leading the largest party in northern ireland, i have more duties at home and i feel i must attend to them, especially at this time when certain talks are taking place. for the past 25 years i have been a member of this house, elected at the top of the poll from northern ireland. i have been gratified to have the largest amount of votes cast for any person elected to this parliament. its rapid growth of jurisdiction is the political mystery of the age. however, i do not believe it is to the best advantage of the european peoples. enlargement has triggered the destruction of the cooperation of the sovereign states of europe and brought about the construction of the sovereign superstate of europe, the new tower of babel. the effects of the full battle between the voluntary cooperation of the european sovereign states and the dictatorial incorporation of those states into the european superstate have yet to be witnessed. in our history superpowers have always been detrimental to peace. the wars in the balkans in recent years have been conveniently forgotten when fiery advocates of an almighty europe tell us the new europe has prevented and stopped wars. some prevention, and some stopping. the present enlargement is bringing with it loads of difficulties, generally in the economic field and particularly in the agricultural field. just how serious the reaping in europe is going to be remains to be seen. the day has yet to declare it. i especially welcome the fact that the united kingdom will have its referendum and that the ordinary european citizens in the united kingdom will not be robbed of their right to pass their judgement on this momentous decision. the continent of europe is not our fatherland and never can be. the nationalities of europe are not changed, they are the creation of god. no matter what sinful man may do, god has enthroned his son king of kings and lord of lords. he is the king of the whole earth and he shall reign and rule forever more.
commissioner, as you know, organised crime is growing very strongly. it is mainly based outside the union, but it is attacking our citizens and can cross internal frontiers inside the union with total facility. there are record amounts of heroin coming in, cocaine, attacks on the internet increasing every day, trafficking of illegal immigrants, of women and of children. there are vast amounts of money laundering, enormous quantities of counterfeit goods and currency hitting us as well. you know this as well as i. it is very frightening. however, our law enforcement agencies are only national or local and they cannot cross our internal frontiers. national politicians do not get credit for fighting crime outside their own countries. all in all, we are failing to fight international organised crime and that is why it is getting stronger. i have just presented you with a pamphlet. i also gave the press a copy this afternoon at a press conference. it is called 'europe needs an fbi'. commissioner, i echo the other sentiments – you have been a very good commissioner in this area. i hope, whether you stay here or go on to something else, that you will help to stir the national politicians who so far have lacked the will to muster the necessary weapons to fight international crime.
mr president, on a point of order. i wanted to raise this point yesterday, but you did not authorise me to intervene. i want to draw your attention and that of parliament to the fact that on 29 april the council signed two legislative acts without having had the opinion of the european parliament, the pretext being that it had fixed a deadline which we had not respected. i want to point out that the same pre-emptive deadline has been fixed for today on the draft agreement with the united states on the air passenger data transfers – the so-called pnr agreement. to avoid the will of parliament being negated, i request that you send a formal request to the presidents of the council and the commission that they should abstain from taking any decisions before the court has given its judgment, especially during this electoral period. this would be the minimum that we could expect in the framework of loyal cooperation between the institutions. the delay should not be too long because the court has already announced a deadline of 6 june for the parties to present their arguments and it seems that the court is speeding up its proceedings and may well reach a judgment before the summer. in those circumstances, it does not seem too much to ask that the council and the commission should respect both our institution and the court of justice, and not undermine the rule of law, given that the court is willing to progress speedily. i fear these two precedents on 29 april. i ask you to invite them formally to abstain from signing the agreement. (applause)
mr president, at last night's meeting of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, the chairman, mr gargani, and the committee agreed that they wished to stand by the substance of the committee's recommendation to you of 15 april that action should be taken against the commission for failure to act as regards answering the questions concerning lloyd's.
mr president, on behalf of the european liberal democrat and reform group i congratulate the president of the commission on assembling a talented team of new commissioners from the ten new member states, france and spain. we welcome the political balance that is found among the ten, as well as the presence of three women. my group will be giving its support to the enlarged commission when we vote at noon today. the european union needs a strong, legitimate and accountable commission, capable of providing political vision and leadership. our leaders must reflect this in the constitutional treaty and in their nominations for the next commission president – but we cannot have a strong commission until this house takes more seriously its role as the third branch of european government. once in every five years this parliament is the union's personnel officer. we are there to take the proper measure of those appointed to the commission or its presidency. to date our hearings of commissioners have been handicapped by too much partisanship and too little sustained, in-depth questioning. so all of the commissioners nominated in november can expect tough questioning from meps of the political centre, the kind of questioning that was too little in evidence at last month's hearings. this commission is the first for a new enlarged europe and the imperative for liberals in this house is to ensure that it is effective, committed and competent. it is also important that we restate and establish once and for all the long-standing principle of individual responsibility of commissioners to parliament for their policies and their departments. it is inevitable that the work of this commission will bind that of the next, just as the work of this parliament will not be undone on 14 june. like any executive, the commission aims to provide continuity in the management of europe's business. much of this business has political import, yet there should be no suggestion that business cannot be done simply because the commission is approaching the end of its term. that argument not only impugns the professionalism of the commission and its officials, but it parades a tenuous grasp of the european agenda. the commission's mandate is for the running of the european union and yet there seem to be some in this house who would have it closed down for the summer. do they not envisage that the settlement of the european union's budget for the next seven years or the question of turkish membership might make some demands on the commission's attention between now and november? liebe deutsche freunde, das müsst ihr ernst nehmen! to close down the commission's right of initiative at this point would not only be wildly impractical, it would be downright irresponsible. let us read between the lines here. my group will not be party to efforts to paint the prodi commission as a lame duck. nor will we be a part of attempts to manufacture that lameness now by restraining the commission's powers. european commissioners are bound to leave their politics at the water's edge. this house should show a similar maturity. the treaties require a degree of impartiality from commissioners that would be difficult to counterfeit and that is why, for all their posturing, the critics of mr prodi have yet to provide any evidence that his other interests have negatively affected his work in brussels. european liberal democrats and reformers in this house have had their share of criticism of some of the commission's policies but we have always recognised its individual talents and its collective commitment. this week we need only think of the extraordinary work of commissioner verheugen in helping secure a successful european enlargement. the new commission will begin its term with one thing in its favour. many familiar faces are likely to be there again in november. this continuity can and should be an asset. likewise the commission must have the necessary latitude over the next five months to prepare the ground and to maintain the momentum necessary to make it a success. indeed, to insist on anything else – especially just to pay party political dues – is risible. (applause)
mr president, as a supporter of enlargement to the whole of europe, i was deeply disappointed by the statement from president prodi which gave the green light for eventual turkish and balkan countries' membership but excluded ukraine permanently. this position in my view contravenes article 49 of the treaty, of which he is the guardian, unless of course he regards ukraine as not being a european country. i hope that the new commissioners will be more positive in their attitude towards ukraine's aspirations. i welcome in particular today mr kyprianou's nomination as the commissioner from cyprus, a commonwealth country. i call upon the new commission to cease to vilify the greek cypriot people post-referendum. i too am in favour of ending the isolation of the turkish-occupied northern community, but, before this happens, surely the handing over of eu aid money – and i call upon mr talat in particular – is inappropriate for as long as they are offering sanctuary to wanted fugitives from justice, particularly from the united kingdom. can the commission look into this matter urgently?
president of the commission. i will answer very briefly because i must also answer the basle 2 problem that was raised earlier, a problem which is extremely important and on which we worked precisely because the initial proposals, which were disruptive to small and mediumsized enterprises, were amended. the council has asked us to amend these proposals further and, above all, to examine all the implications for small and mediumsized enterprises. we have, in agreement with the council, commissioned pricewaterhouse to carry out an in-depth analysis: the analysis is being completed and we will submit it to the council for further discussion in a few weeks. the matter is not closed. it's still open and under discussion. on the question of communication, the experiment we have carried out was precisely to coordinate better, at the level of the whole commission, the communication itself. i believe that the improvements we have made have been effective, and i feel that we can see this in the most organic way we have been able to proceed. i am of course not prejudiced against the future organization of the communication: the commission's future will depend entirely on how the new president organises the commission's work. i see, however, that there is a need - and here i am echoing what you said, mr president - for much more effective communication: the commission has always been able to provide information to the public in an indirect way, sometimes with very serious distortion problems.
mr president, i have just returned from a meeting with president chissano of mozambique, with whom you and president prodi met this morning. one of the issues raised by president chissano was the concern that acp countries have about the prospect of enlargement and the impact of it on them in terms of the likelihood that there will be less resources for them. they are also concerned about the level of commitment to development cooperation which they might expect from the new countries coming into the union. we in the committee on development and cooperation, and the acp joint parliamentary assembly, would like reassurance that we can expect the same level of commitment from the new commission as we have from the current commission. secondly, my question relates to the prospect for the relex family of directorates under the new commission. we do not want to see our development objectives and priorities subsumed by foreign policy strategies, interests and priorities. we very much want to see a development commissioner with a remit which covers our development work across the world. the eu is, after all, the world's major donor in this regard; it has an enormous role to play that i hope will not become secondary in the future.
mr president, perhaps the most important decision the irish presidency faces is the choice of mr prodi's successor as president of the commission. i am sure the president-in-office of the european council, the taoiseach, consults you, mr prodi, on the sort of qualities that a president of the commission requires. what answer do you give him and where can this paragon be found?
commission. in response to the comments by the last speaker, one of the important developments that has taken place over recent times in relation to this issue has been the collaboration between the european court of justice, the parliament and the commission. last year the court of justice decided that the citizens of the european union have a right of access to healthcare in all member states. this decision has generated a new discussion at eu level on healthcare in the eu. i am happy to say that in december 2003 the commission established a high-level group of health ministers of the european union to report on that issue, following which the commission produced its response. we are now at the stage where we have put forward a policy in response to this, which will put in place a high-level group which will guide the discussion on the appropriate response to healthcare and the delivery of healthcare at eu level. the commission will lead the debate in conjunction with the health ministers of the member states of the 25 eu countries. this development has provided the kind of impetus necessary to form a bridge between the exercise of eu-level competences relating to public health, and how these relate to and impact on the delivery of healthcare – a responsibility which remains with the member states. the contact between those two points is important and parliament will be aware of the establishment, during this commission, of the european centre for disease control located in sweden. these factors have contributed considerably to the further development of healthcare in the eu, an issue which is gradually increasing in importance for citizens. i am happy to say that the commission, the parliament, the court of justice and indeed all the institutions have shown support for this issue. this is likely to continue throughout the life of the next commission.
mr president, in welcoming the new commissioners, i should like to ask the whole commission to redouble its efforts to promote good relations with, and good governance in, the countries of central asia and the caucusus. we see on our screens today the problems in georgia. we know the human rights problems in uzbekistan and turkmenistan. we know of the new great game being played around the oil pipelines with russia, the americans, the iranians, the turks and the afghans all vying with each other. we see the health threats from that region; we see the drug threats and the environmental threats. we need stability among our near and next-door neighbours to be a key priority for the new commission and the new parliament.
mr president, you have given 15 years of tireless service to this house and on behalf of the eldr group i would like to pay tribute to the leadership and the vision that you have shown during your term of office. you have proven an outstanding president of our house, raising our profile, ensuring that our voice is heard in the council and beyond. through your eloquence and your judicious use of the well-crafted sound bite you have communicated the practical benefits of our work to our citizens. i am proud that the first liberal president of this house in 22 years should be one of its most successful. i would like to highlight briefly two achievements. your energetic campaigning for enlargement and the determination you have shown in reforming this house will go down to your great credit. as my predecessor as leader of the eldr group, you demonstrated our commitment to enlargement by involving mps from the candidate countries in our work. you continued with your energetic campaign for a 'yes' vote in the candidate countries and in bringing observer meps here to our chamber in 2002. you have brought this parliament closer to reforms than ever before and i have no doubt that as a result of your work we will succeed in reforming this house. we are sure that you will still have much to contribute to europe in whatever you do in the months and the years ahead. we say today 'au revoir' with a vote of thanks and our best wishes for the future. (applause)
mr president, i should like to add my words to those of my colleagues mr poettering and mr schulz in thanking all the contestants in this competition for the presidency of our house. the result that we have is an honourable one. i am proud that the political family i represent gave the european parliament a first-class president in pat cox. i believe that he will be a hard act to follow and i wish you, mr president, all the best in your term of office. i would, however, like to put on notice the group of the european people's party and the socialist group in the european parliament. i believe that the alliance they have formed is an unnatural one. such an alliance, when it happens in national parliaments, happens only at times of war or crisis. if these parties try to use this alliance to carve up the way things are done in this house, my group will fight them every inch of the way. if they conspire to block the necessary reforms in this house, we will stand up for the interests of the citizen. i believe that the citizens of the european union are fed up with opaque government and back-room deals and look forward to the day when we have a mature parliament, building a political majority not a technical majority. (applause from the centre) mr poettering spoke of the need for stability. the trouble is that democracies are run by crisis management: serious problems are not tackled until they have to be. our union has problems and resolving those problems will require leadership. we will judge you, mr president, on your capacity for showing leadership to this house in the period to come. (applause)
mr president, it is regrettable that we do not have an opportunity to hear from the vice-presidential candidates, even though we have the right number. it would have been good to know who the candidates are. we have to remember that 50% of the members here are new and do not know the people they are voting for. (applause)it would have been in the interests of transparent democracy for us to have heard who the people were, so we could choose and put them in order. the vice-presidential role is not just a ceremonial role in presiding over these debates but a key decision­making role in the bureau. some of the candidates are very new. i suggest that in future candidates make one-minute presentations. i also suggest that we hear from the quaestors when they are elected tomorrow, because they are the people who are meant to be representing meps. otherwise, we have no say whatsoever as to the people we are electing. (applause)finally, we should depoliticise the quaestors, so we have real representatives for meps.
mr president, my group also wishes to congratulate the taoiseach and his team for their prize-winning presidency: canny, courageous and committed. as you say, this parliament can also claim a share in the success story. what we have achieved together is something rather remarkable: we have changed the political discourse in europe, we have established a constitutional framework for a europe that can stand on its own feet in world affairs and deliver effective common policy to address our shared problems. the igc accepted the same concept of constitutional fidelity that member states show to the union, a concept that informed the proceedings throughout the european convention. although there were certainly remnants of the old-style quarrels about the pecking order between states, the igc successfully managed to transcend these and leaves us with a fairly clear picture of what the european union will be like for the foreseeable future. there is a sense of constitutional settlement, of democratic legitimisation that this package deal has achieved, a sense that previous igcs have failed to establish. the european union comes out stronger. we trust each other more and are more trustworthy for the citizen and the outside world. this parliament will now develop its own positive critique of the outcome of the igc and prepare to exploit it, but we must also explain and justify to a fairly sceptical electorate what has happened. we must be a campaigning parliament for the constitution. we can be proud of our own role inside the process so far and we must not be shy of marketing parliament on the strength of the success. this time parliament cannot absolve itself of responsibility for the outcome of the igc. we were there, we were players. it could be that a referendum will be lost somewhere in europe. it will be partly our fault as members of the european parliament, and that of the political parties that sent us here, should a referendum fail. it will also be our problem to resolve thereafter. (applause)
mr president, in my first remarks in the house i wish to state that the great sense of honour that i feel derives not from membership of this institution, but from the confidence in me manifested by the people of northern ireland in making me their first choice in terms of representation in this parliament. it is to them, not to the institutions of europe, that i owe my allegiance. my purpose in being here is to defend and promote the interests and good name of northern ireland and to secure for its people their fair share of european funding. turning to the irish presidency, i am sure that mr ahern will remember my illustrious predecessor telling him six months ago in this house, with characteristic humour, that the most beneficial thing likely to emerge from the irish presidency would be that mr ahern would have less time to meddle in the affairs of british northern ireland. and so it proved to be that meddle time - happily - was at a premium. that apart, the legacy on the constitutional front which this presidency bequeaths to us is not, in my opinion, welcome or happy. the new constitution is nothing to be proud of for anyone who believes in democratic control and its essential companion, national sovereignty. it is an affront to and an assault upon both. i appeal for honesty in the presentation of this constitution, for recognition that it is a charter designed to facilitate and build a european superstate with ever-diminishing national powers and ever-increasing centralised powers and all the apparatus of statehood. statehood properly lies in nation states and that is where it should remain. finally, i compliment and reassure mr ahern on his continuing mastery of the english language so that he might have the confidence to abandon the foolish notion of wasting millions of euros of taxpayers' money on making irish an official language of these institutions. i say to him to leave such archaic nonsense to sinn féin, from whom one expects no better.
a uachtaráin, a thaoisigh, seasann sinn féin ar son an athraithe in éirinn agus ar fud an aontais eorpaigh. táimid ag dúil le bheith ag obair leo siúd ar mhaith leo eoraip chothrom a fheiceáil, eoraip dhomhanda fhreagrach. (sinn fein stands for change in ireland and across the eu and we look forward to working with others who want to see a europe of equals and a globally responsible eu.) i look forward to building support for the irish peace process and irish unity and independence. it makes sense for ireland to be treated as one whether in employment, agriculture or human rights. in ireland we are engaged in a peace process to which the european union, the united states and others have contributed greatly. i welcome the council's call for the commission to examine the possibility of extending funds for peace ii and the international fund for ireland. despite much progress, the peace process in ireland faces great difficulties with the democratic institutions suspended by the british government. just last week people in my home city of belfast were penned into their communities while a sectarian unionist parade was forced through. iarraim ar uachtarántacht na hisiltíre agus ar mo chomhghleacaithe anseo díriú ar phróiseas síochána na héireann ... i would ask the netherlands presidency to focus also on the irish peace process.
mr president, the agreement reached on the constitution at the june european council was a bad one for europe. my position on the constitution – and that of my fellow european democrats – is clear and well known. we believe that the constitution is a mistake. we believe that europe does not need a constitution: countries have constitutions, and the eu is not – nor should it seek to become – a country or a state. the laeken summit of 2001 called upon the european convention and the igc to ensure that the outcome of their work brought the european institutions closer to the people. i do not think that has happened. the constitution does nothing to involve the nation states and people more closely in the decision-making processes of the union. in fact, with major extensions in majority voting, the powers of the centre are greatly increasing. this is a view that has perhaps been endorsed by the remarks recently made by the dutch foreign minister, suggesting that we need to engage in a process of self-reflection with a view to deciding whether some policy areas should not be transferred back from european to national level. these are interesting remarks from the government that now holds the presidency of the union for the next six months. they demonstrate that i am not alone in putting forward these ideas. europe could have chosen a better way. it could have decided to tidy up the treaties in a simplifying document; it could have given national parliaments a real say in eu legislation; it could have looked more closely at what is done by national governments; and clearly it could have set out an obligation for the union to tackle fraud and maladministration. i feel that we have missed an opportunity. i welcome the fact that france is to have a vote on the constitution. i welcome the debate initiated by mr stoiber on a possible referendum in germany. it is right that the people have the final say in deciding their own future. the leader of my own party believes in a live-and-let-live europe, in other words, one where those who wish to integrate more closely should be enabled to do so, provided that those of us who do not are not compelled to do so. when the referendums are held, i hope and believe that many people will take the opportunity to vote for a europe of diversity and not uniformity, and a europe that respects the rights of nation states.
(in writing).– as a member of scotland's party of independence, the snp, i congratulate the irish government for the exemplary manner in which it conducted its six-month presidency. ireland, a member state smaller than scotland, has provided inspiration to those of us who aspire to see scotland resuming all of the normal powers of an independent nation, speaking for ourselves in the international community, and cooperating with our neighbours on terms which suit scotland's priorities - not london's. ireland, with healthy economic growth, continues to demonstrate how to gain maximum benefit from eu membership, while scotland lags behind in terms of job opportunities and is suffering a decline in population. i look forward to the day when scots ministers will sit alongside irish in the council of ministers, as equal partners with full rights to negotiate and vote, putting scotland's interests first and not, as at present, merely acting as bag-carriers for their westminster bosses.
mr president, one quarter of the netherlands is below sea-level so you have a long history of trying to keep dry! i suspect that your presidency will be about digging channels and containing the tides - tides such as the challenge of funding the new enlarged european union, the deepening importance of rebuilding our economic strength, the ebb and flow of the dangers of international terrorism. you need to inherit some of the momentum of your predecessor, without being caught in its shadow. the irish presidency has passed one crucial legacy to yours: the european constitution. liberals and democrats in this house will lead the way in campaigning for the constitution and we expect every one of europe's governments to be in the vanguard. if we cannot sell it, it was not worth a single glass of justus lipsius champagne. for the rest of the work that you have set, time is short. with the summer recess and a new parliament and commission rushing to find their feet, you must achieve in three-and-a-half months what many presidencies struggle to achieve in six. we look forward to working with the good team that you have in mr nicolaï and his colleagues. liberals and democrats in this house welcome your commitment to renewing the economic reform agenda. we agree that the need now is to focus more on better implementation and less on new regulation. the foundation of social cohesion in europe is a strong and dynamic economy. with careful consideration for the needs of local and regional economies the single european market can be a tide that can lift all of our boats. an important part of this is the credibility of the euro and the eurozone. we joined your presidency in welcoming the principle at the heart of last week's ruling by the european court of justice that a pact is a pact: that member states cannot and should not break with impunity the rules they set for themselves. we will be watching closely to see that a rethought stability pact can command the respect of big and small states alike. we welcome your commitment to push ahead on the justice and home affairs agenda. we welcome the launch of a debate on the best way to integrate our migration controls, closing the door to illegal migration while protecting those who justly flee oppression. but we need qualified majority voting and codecision in asylum, immigration and judicial cooperation as provided for in article 251 of the treaty. my group also agrees that member states have to work together better to tackle terrorism, but we remain suspicious of the council's intent to employ biometric identifiers widely. too many of our questions about fallibility, cost-effectiveness and privacy have not been properly answered. you must not pre-empt the decisions of parliament in these matters. yours is also the presidency that will oversee the nomination of the new commission. last week my group asked the commission president-designate to commit himself to striving for a better gender balance in the commission. but in reality this is your job, mr president-in-office. liberals and democrats in this house want a commission that is at least one-third women. we might remind you that if the gender balance of the council reflected that of europe itself, it would be thirteen to twelve. we need a debate on turkey. let us have that debate, openly and frankly. what we are committed to is hearing out the commission when it makes its recommendation in november, and we expect the council to do the same. nor do we all agree on the correct level of funding for the european union over the next seven years, but we do share a commitment to ensuring value for money and focusing on the union's key priorities. if this presidency can publish guidelines and principles for the negotiations in december we will have the basis for an intelligent debate on future financial perspectives. liberals and democrats share your realism, but we hope it comes with a ballast of ambition and vision. you must decide on questions which will define the future of our union. mr president-in-office. we are relying on your leadership to keep this ship afloat and keep it steaming, just as impressively as manet's 'steamboat leaving boulogne', which is on show at the van gogh museum in amsterdam. (applause)
mr president, indeed we have much to look forward to in the course of the next six months and i notice in these proposals that there is an absolute mass of proposed financial services regulation. the dutch presidency is going to push for the reinsurance directive. it is going to push for the third money laundering directive. it is going to push for the capital requirements directive and much, much more. financial services is britain's biggest and most successful industry. all of this agenda is nothing less than a disaster for the city of london, and it is a policy of beggar thy neighbour because the businesses of investment and insurance is not going to move from london to frankfurt or paris: it is going to be forced outside the european union. it is going to move to the offshore centres. frankly this is a deliberate policy that is being pursued by the european union year after year after year, and it is costing my country a great deal of money. that said, i do admire your sense of humour because you are still banging on about the lisbon agenda. do you remember that - the great proclamation a few years ago that we were going to create the high-tech, dynamic economy with full employment? here we are half way through the programme and we see high unemployment, sclerotic growth and not a cat's chance in hell of any of the lisbon agenda being realised. and then you want to renegotiate britain's rebate and we will lose a further gbp 2 billion a year! this is all so bad that it is really very good because the genie of public opinion is now firmly out of the bottle. we know that this is a political project. frankly what i would like you to do is to press this programme as aggressively as you can because you will make the british public and the public in many other member states so furious that when we get our chance in these ten referendums we will say no and we will say it loudly.
mr president, i am sorry that i have to repeat the request i made yesterday to have the candidates identified so that we can see who we are voting for. (applause)we have no idea as to who some of the candidates are. it would be good if they could stand up, be identified and, ideally, say something. (applause)
mr president, speaking as a european democrat, it is about time that the lisbon strategy of driving forward competitiveness and innovation in european economies be properly implemented. can the presidency deliver? that is the question. as european debates become more idealistic and polarised many people are simply turned off, as evidenced in the recent european elections. policies adopted by socialist governments have stunted the growth of economies and drowned us and our vital businesses in costly regulatory frameworks. the world economies outside europe will show no mercy to us, nor should we expect them to. they will exploit our weaknesses and our citizens will suffer as a result. the demographic time-bomb is ticking, as more people become unproductive too soon. nonsensical ageism removes experience and expertise often where and when it is most needed. the response from all of us must be direct and urgent. we must re-energise economies, cut the cost of the state, cut superfluous regulations, complete the single market, and encourage innovation to revive the manufacturing sector in particular. above all we have to show the people that europe is working in a friendly way: supporting them, not smothering them, giving them more freedom to improve the quality of their lives and the lives of those close to and around them, and to achieve their aspirations in the medium and long term. that is our first duty and we should discharge it. i wish them well in the presidency.
mr president, i want to sympathise with you as i assume that, because of the time of day, you also encountered the problem that i and a number of other colleagues experienced in trying to get to this vote this afternoon. could you try to get the services to do something about the state of the lifts in this building? i and other colleagues waited ten minutes for a lift down to this floor. (applause)if there is a vote taking place and it is a normal procedure, a ten-minute wait means that we will be late for the vote. we came out as soon as the bell rang for a vote. could you try to get something sorted out so that we can restrict access to main lifts during voting sessions to members only? that seems to be the problem.
mr president, mr president-designate of the commission, a few years ago you left an interesting hostage to fortune in an interview which was reported widely in the european press. i am not sure exactly what inspired your comment but you said: 'imagine a large plane, and then go into the cockpit and there is no one at the controls'. describing the european union, you said it was a plane without a pilot. now, mr barroso, you are applying for a pilot's licence. before we grant it to you, liberals and democrats in this house want to hear from you about your flight plan and your destination. we want a hands-on pilot at the controls of the european union. we asked for clarity about the subject of super commissioners, a better gender mix in the commission and a commitment to transparency and individual accountability for commissioners. you have addressed these points in your remarks today and my group will reflect on what you said and come to a common view on your candidacy. you have impressed liberals and democrats in this house with your candour and your competence. you have spoken charismatically and confidently about your vision for europe. we believe you have treated this house with respect, and have come before its members ready to listen and ready to convince. we have made no secret of our distaste for the justus lipsius carpet market which produced your nomination. we look forward to the day when these choices are made not behind closed doors but in open debate, the day when it is parliament and the voters of europe who determine which candidate should be there for our executive and the council which does the approving! asked to explain your politics in recent weeks, you have described yourself as a reformist of the centre. you say you are a committed european. perhaps i can define what liberals and democrats take such answers to mean. to be a reformist of the centre is to believe in healthy democracy, robust economies, open markets and free and fair trade, to believe in a society that strives for the balance between the irreducible freedom of the individual and the solidarity that enables us to be a society at all. you will be committed to the lisbon agenda – committed to the economic reform that can preserve europe's prosperity for the future. you will want to see the european union speak with a single voice in international affairs. you will believe that our institutions need to be more open and accountable, and brought closer to the people they represent. you will believe that when we serve our national or party political agendas over our european agenda, we do a disservice to our union. if those are your ambitions then liberals and democrats in this house will support you and your commission. you said, mr barroso, that europe's plane cannot fly with an empty cockpit. at such a time, we cannot afford to have unsteady hands at the controls. the twin gravities of public scepticism and blinkered ambition have the potential to ground us. the commission's independence and strength are key to its effective leadership in europe. you have said you would work to protect and preserve them – but the journey from justus lipsius to the berlaymont is more than just crossing a brussels boulevard. you come from the intergovernmental culture of the council – are you ready to speak for the european union? i ask you to imagine a large plane – i hope an airbus rather than a boeing – with yourself at the controls. what kind of pilot would you be? what kind of plane is your europe? what is your destination? because the union needs a global carrier, not a no-frills airline. we need a commission president who is going to lead from the front in the debate on the new european constitution. who will commit to travelling widely across our union to make the case for europe to europe's citizens. who will be an honest broker and an enforcer with national governments – often both at the same time. who can master a hundred briefs and still find time to speak with vision and clarity about the future of our continent. these are the qualities that liberals and democrats will be weighing up when we vote tomorrow, and which would ultimately define the success of your presidency and your commission. if we vote to approve your nomination as president of the commission you can expect to find in us a constructive partner and a critical friend. in return, we will expect never to find, as you did, that the cockpit of europe's aeroplane is empty or the hand on its rudder is unsure. (applause)
mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming the president-designate of the commission on behalf of the british conservative delegation and our european democrat colleagues. i want to make it clear that i speak as the leader of the party that was the outright winner of the european elections in the united kingdom, with 28 seats. you have shown, mr president-designate, that you have a number of very impressive qualities that fit you for the post of president of the commission. you have been a reforming prime minister of your country and, despite the setback of the recent football result, you personally can take pride in the fact that you have made a great contribution in enhancing your nation's profile and standing in europe and beyond. the next president inherits a commission that has a major task to restore confidence amongst the peoples of europe for what it does and how it does it. there have been attempts at reform in a number of areas during the presidency of mr prodi. however, i hope that the next president will be bold in reforming the commission and its workings in a manner that genuinely meets the expectations of european citizens. i hope the next president will make tackling fraud, waste and maladministration a priority of his term of office. i am very encouraged by the remarks you made earlier about value for money in this area. these are matters that still cast too much of a shadow over the eu. we want to see the eu code of good administrative conduct made binding on all eu institutions and officials. we want to see stronger protection for whistleblowers. olaf should be made fully independent with its own staff and budget and the eu needs a commissioner with sole responsibility for budgetary control so that person can ensure that there is proper accounting and effective tackling of fraud. as you made clear in your earlier remarks, mr barroso, competitiveness and enterprise are vital for europe's economic future. the lisbon process - even by the commission's own admission - is failing to make the progress that you envisaged when you led that process. i congratulate you for the role you played then. your future role - which i hope will be confirmed tomorrow - will be to ensure that directives take full account of the diversity of europe and the circumstances of individual regions and industries. we believe strongly that impact assessments and price tags should be attached to all new eu proposals, including parliamentary amendments. i want to see the next president work constructively with the united states to fully restore the union's excellent relations with them. we all know the disagreements over iraq, but they should now be put behind us. i have confidence that you are the sort of person who will be able to achieve that. i want to see an open and constructive dialogue across the atlantic, unhindered by anti-american rhetoric, some of which, sadly, we hear too often within this chamber. if this house endorses your candidature tomorrow, as i hope it does, you have a great opportunity to deliver on a maxim which had great resonance in my country in the european elections: europe should be doing less, but it should be doing it better.
mr president, as i believe most speakers agree, following the european elections europe is on trial. we have to prove ourselves worthy of our citizens' support. we will not do that by talking endlessly about process or by having obscure institutional debates, nor by flowery speeches on the meaning of 'europe'. now that we have agreement on a constitutional treaty, we have to focus on what europe does rather than how europe does it. we have to show how europe can benefit all our citizens, so i want to see a president of the commission who is a man of action, not a man of words or fine speeches. the most important priority - and i recognise your commitment to that, mr barroso - has to be jobs. we must implement the recommendations of mr wim kok. we must have incentives to create jobs. we must have policies that make work pay and we must spend money on training and retraining our workers, not on simply keeping them out of work. we must incorporate the most marginal into society. europe needs all its citizens if it is to prosper. we have to invest in our people because we cannot have economic efficiency without social justice. we must also maintain the requirement to ensure that european laws are properly enforced across all member states. in the last commission, commissioner kinnock did an excellent job on reforming the procedures of the commission. i would hope that if you are selected as president, mr barroso, you will ensure that his work is continued and finished so that we have a modern, accountable commission that guarantees that we have proper probity at all levels.
madam president, my party cannot support the candidature of the president for the institution because we do not support the institution over which he desires to preside. my constituents do not doubt the authority or the legitimacy of this democratically elected parliament, but they do not wish to be governed by it. they want to be governed by their own people in their own parliament - and they will be during the lifetime of this parliament. believe me. for the same reasons we - and they - do not wish to see the constitution enacted because they see it as based on obsolete economic and political theories of the 1950s, of the fear of war and an outdated threat of communism. they see it as creating a europe that is inward-looking, that is bureaucratic, that is restrictive, whereas we should be creating a community that is innovative and outward-looking, that reaches out to the rest of the world, that is flexible and democratic. that is not the institution that we are creating here in europe today and we wish to have no part of it. we will not support it. my constituents do not want to see the creation of a federal state called europe. they want to be governed by their own people in their own parliament. they do not wish to give their destiny, their independence and their sovereignty to a group in brussels, or indeed in strasbourg. some 20 years ago mrs thatcher went to fontainebleau and said: 'i want our money back' - and she got some of it. we want our country back and, believe you me, we are going to get it.
madam president, i wish to begin by expressing my pleasure at speaking for the first time in this chamber as a member of the expanded group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. i am extremely pleased at this development. mr barroso, i admit i was somewhat prejudiced before i heard you. you were appointed through a process of rather squalid intergovernmental bargaining, which was not very impressive. i was not keen on your enthusiasm for the iraq war, which i regard as misguided and illegal. however, i have been favourably impressed by your presentational and communication skills and your clear attachment to a successful europe and a strong european commission. i am also impressed by your assertion that you intend not to be beholden to the member states and in particular that you do not want super-commissioners. i will therefore vote for you. however, i am wondering how consistent and truly reliable you will prove. for instance, you say you will strive for eight or nine women commissioners, which, of course, i support. but what will you do if the uk insists on appointing peter mandelson, france jacques barrot, germany günter verheugen, and italy mario monti? what will you do if the smaller countries say that, as you have failed to change the gender of these big boys, why should we carry out the sex-change operation? everyone wants gender balance in theory, but finds a pretext to fail to deliver it in practice. i wish you every ounce of conviction and determination on this issue, but i will watch with interest to see the outcome. i cannot quite marry your concern for women with what is happening in portugal, where some women are being prosecuted for carrying out abortions. in a situation where the bush administration has withdrawn funding for international organisations on women's reproductive health if they even include abortion advice in their functions, it is crucial that the new commission carries on the work led by poul nielson of substituting eu funding for the american cuts. this means standing up to george bush. i hope we can rely on you. secondly, i worry that you will be all things to all people. you describe yourself as a centrist, a reformer and a social democrat, but you belong to the conservative group. you somewhat remind me of your mate tony blair. i am not sure in what political direction you are really heading. pragmatism has its virtues, but we need to know the hard political choices that you will make when the chips are down and the principles that you will not compromise on. lastly, i hope we can rely on you in the field of civil liberties and human rights. your compatriot, mr vitorino, did a great job and, on the whole, struck the right balance between freedom and security. however, there are ever-increasing pressures to sacrifice personal freedom to the quest for security, to compromise our humanitarian obligations to refugees and to fail to integrate legal immigrants. the european union failed to take a united stand on guantánamo bay. i hope we can rely on you to prioritise civil liberties and human rights in the future.
mr president, i wish to make a short statement. my comments have been misrepresented in the press. i would particularly like to say that it is my first visit here and it is disgraceful that something so undemocratic can take place: somebody has misquoted from the press with no prior engagement with me and no prior notice. mrs mussolini has not even had the courtesy to come to see me about what was purportedly written in the english press.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the spirit of the teutonic style of our new house, i'll offer some words in goethe's language. i ask you, for god's sake, mr. poettering, what have you been doing here? the epp members voted for mr borrell and now the social democrats are voting against your candidate for commissioner. (laughter) unreliable partners! (applause from the alde group)
mr president, i am pleased to be able to speak this morning on behalf of this new independence and democracy group, the fastest growing group in the european parliament, which i believe reflects public opinion across the european continent. let us remember what we are talking about here. we are talking about a european commission and a president of the european commission. i would suggest that the super-bureaucrat, jean monnet, is resting very easily in his grave because the commission model that he wanted is here. if we have the constitution, it is here to stay. you see, mr monnet hated parliamentary democracy; he found it inconvenient; it got in the way of an administrator's plan for the next five, ten or fifteen years and he wanted to have a strong european commission. what we have today is a european union that is effectively ruled by unelected bureaucrats based in brussels, issuing directives and regulations with which this house can do nothing other than tamper. just look at the commission! it has become a rest home for failed domestic politicians. when people have to resign from cabinet or if, like chris patten, they lose their seat in an election, they are packed off for five or ten years at the european commission - a commission that has proved itself to be unreformable. do you remember that they all resigned in disgrace in 1999? we were told that it was all going to change, it was all going to be made better. mr prodi took over for five years, with mr kinnock at his side, and what did we see? we saw the eurostat scandal. have we really seen an increase in transparency? the answer is 'no', and so bureaucratic and bad is it that now we have over 3 000 working groups and committees within this bureaucratic monster. mr barroso came to meet our group - which was quite brave of him in many ways. he is politically skilled, he is a good operator and a good communicator. he is certainly much better at all of those things than mr prodi was. mark you, that would not be very difficult, would it? but he believes in a political europe. he supports the european constitution: a constitution that is bad for democracy; a constitution that establishes this place as a new legal entity; a constitution whose withdrawal terms are so unacceptable as to make the eu a prison of nations. my group will overwhelmingly vote against mr barroso and we urge anybody in this house that wants to stop the european constitution to use this opportunity today to send a message. (applause from the independence and democracy group)
mr president, on a point of order, while the house will very much agree with the words you have just spoken and while we are all utterly appalled at the events which took place in beslan, i must draw the attention of the house to another matter. last month the regime in iran hanged a 16-year-old girl. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i certainly do not often speak on behalf of farmers, but my region in the northeast of england has suffered the worst weather and the worst harvest in 40 years. at a meeting there last week, farmers merely asked that the arable area payments that they are entitled to be made somewhat earlier. contrary to some popular conception in the uk, farmers in yorkshire are certainly not whingers. they just want a reasonable payment, made more quickly and on a regional basis. it is a restrained request. i hope that this parliament will push the commission to be sympathetic when the british government requests it in due course.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the situation in the caribbean and florida with regard to the terrible destruction being wrought by hurricane ivan and indeed by the two previous hurricanes, charlie and francis. firstly i want us to express our condolences to and solidarity with all those who have suffered bereavement, injury and loss. as mep for london, i am conscious that many of my constituents originating from places like grenada, jamaica and the cayman islands have families there who have been affected. secondly, i want to urge a generous response from the eu and member states for humanitarian aid to the countries and communities that have been devastated. i hope that the rapid response mechanism of echo can be invoked. lastly, conscious that we next have on the agenda a commission statement on recent environmental disasters in southern europe, i want to insist on the likely connection between this terrible season for caribbean hurricanes, typhoons in the south china sea and indeed the wettest summer in britain for 40 years, and the effects of climate change and global warming. one could also mention the devastating floods in bangladesh in july. we must all make this a top priority, including the new us administration. we in the west must curb our profligate use of energy because it is the poor in the south and east and even hard-pressed european farmers who suffer if we do not.
mr president, i wish to flag up a serious threat to civil liberties, the environment and animal welfare in the united kingdom. next wednesday the british government proposes to introduce a new law on hunting which will aim to criminalise some of the most decent, law-abiding and responsible people in the uk. in order to pass its law, the government will be forced to use a constitutional sledgehammer called the parliament act, which was not designed for this sort of purpose and, in the view of many constitutional lawyers, will be improperly used in this way. we in this house respect human rights and cultural diversity. the proposed new law is a serious assault on both. all who value civil liberties, rural values and animal welfare should speak out against this unjust and oppressive measure.
mr president, last month in the city of neka in iran a 16 year-old girl accused of offences against chastity was publicly hanged from a crane. after sentencing her to death, the judge said that she had undressed in the court because she took her veil off. he insisted upon placing the rope around her neck himself. there are three more children aged 16 currently under sentence of death in iran. the regime is waiting until they are 18 to carry out public executions. this is the utmost act of barbarism by a mullah regime that is taking the cultured and civilised people of iran back to the stone ages. it has executed 120 000 people since it came to power. i hope that on behalf of all the members of this house, mr president, you will express our outrage to the iranian ambassador to the eu. the execution of children, and indeed the death penalty, is something that we will not tolerate. (applause)
mr president, shortly before the summer break the supreme court of indonesia finally acquitted all those military officers indicted for the unlawful killing of civilians in the former portuguese colony of east timor during the run-up to timorese independence when there were attempts to derail the un-led independence process. i deeply regret this and, as this house followed east timor's independence struggle closely, many will join me in protest at the fact that nobody is going to be punished for these massacres.
mr president, firstly i would like to respond to the first speaker, who indicated that he had difficulties in respect of the exploitation of young seasonal workers in northern ireland, the constituency that i represent. i very much regret that and i have already assured him that i will use my offices to try to resolve that difficulty. i now want to congratulate the greek authorities on the excellent olympic games and to express my disgust at the suggestion of the outgoing president of the commission that in future games the european union flag should be flown alongside the national flag. i do not think it is at all anti-european to make the point that the olympic games give great national pride to the nation states that participate in them. this suggestion is an indication of the obsession of the europhile leaders of europe, an obsession that knows no bounds. even now they want to garner for themselves the glory that flows to each nation state from the medals won there. i suggest it is a step too far and one that nation states should rightly resist. (applause)
mr president, i have a point of order with regard to the agenda. a number of members have tabled questions in good time for this week – in particular to the council – but received rather confusing e-mails to the effect that the questions could not be translated and would be held over until the next part-session. can you clarify the position with regard to council question time this week and say what members with genuine questions for the council should do?
mr president, liberals and democrats in this house welcome your presidency programme and we offer you our support in your work. when you speak impartially for this house, when you are a credit to its standing and a defender of its prerogatives, you can count on our backing. the stature of this parliament is growing, and the stature of its presidency must grow with it. you have inherited a house larger by some eight dozen meps and richer by nine new official languages. it is a machine of four and a half thousand parts, speaking twenty languages, a million words a week. the parts must move in time, the machine must stay in motion. you must make sure that it does. benjamin franklin once said of the vice-presidency of the united states - before the days of dick cheney - that it was a position so lacking in influence and stature that its holder should be addressed as 'your superfluous excellency'. the european parliament cannot afford a superfluous excellency, because you will be our voice; you will speak for us in the council; you will be the will of this house: you will be our resolution. every one of us carries the burden of building the legitimacy of this house and thus european democracy and the work that it does - but none more than you. in your opening remarks you spoke of two sources of legitimacy. this house indeed has a particular duty to stand up for the rights of european union citizens. sometimes that means defending their rights from encroachment by the union's member states. i think, for example, of the nine million stateless roma or the citizens of cyprus and also of the people of gibraltar, now represented in this house for the first time, thanks to a judgment in the european court of justice. i am proud to be one of gibraltar's representatives here, because only in europe can gibraltar look across the line at la linea, or at the british battleship in the bay of algeciras and finally see no contradiction. this house is the manifestation of the belief that we are better than our histories and more than our nationalities and it must be manifest in its president. in two areas of your mandate you can expect aggressive backing from liberals and democrats. the first is in reform of this house. an enlarged parliament means a reformed parliament. we welcome your emphasis today on reform of the members' statute. the package agreed at the end of the last session is not an end but a point of departure. we cannot hide behind it. we must call the bluff of european governments and go straight back to work, because for our voters the price of legitimacy is open and ambitious reform, nothing less. the second area is the defence of the european constitution. here we expect you to lead a concerted campaign across the continent. so renew your frequent flyer package: europe has never had a more important product to sell. mr president, liberals and democrats in this house urge imagination and we expect ambition. political institutions rise and fall by the respect that they command. for a quarter of a century this chamber has gathered powers and asked european citizens for respect, for trust. we must wake and work and sleep as if that trust must be won anew every day. in wishing you well in your term of office, mr president, i would say that we expect nothing less from you. (applause)
mr president, belarus is in focus now, not only for sharing over one thousand kilometres of border with the eu, but also as the last surviving major european bastion of neo-soviet ideology. one could say in its favour that unlike some of its neighbours it remains free of inter-ethnic strife. it has also unilaterally renounced its nuclear arsenal, as well as much of its conventional weaponry. organised crime is low. rather surprisingly, belarus is also enjoying a 4% growth rate economically. however, the country is an increasing worry to the eu, having deteriorated into authoritarianism and repression of human and linguistic rights, while opposition political parties are now suffering harassment ahead of the referendum and parliamentary elections on 17 october. sadly, the belarus house of assembly is barely recognisable in western terms as a freely-elected parliament. the election of president lukashenko in 1994 led initially to the hope that authority would be upheld, corruption rooted out and the economy put back on track. yet this has not happened, because the soviet-style approach resulted in the re-introduction of the economic model of central control leading to clientelism and interventionism in all aspects of public life. he now seeks the right, through the referendum, to become president for life. private enterprise in belarus functions poorly and the bulk of financial investment comes from russia after a promising but short-lived start, particularly in the sme sector. the effects of the chernobyl disaster are still of grave consequence and something like a quarter of the country is still contaminated by radioactive fall-out. in 2001 lukashenko won 75% support, although the osce declared that the election had failed to comply with its minimum standards. nevertheless, no-one actually disputes his victory. leading opposition figures have been arrested and beaten, and a few have disappeared, although – mysteriously – some have reappeared. two years ago three journalists were sentenced to three years of hard labour for slandering the president. many belarussians support eventual eu membership for their country, although if asked they also claim to support union with russia. lukashenko would ideally like to build an eastern pan-slavic bloc hostile to the west. however, especially since president putin came to office, russia has responded by seeking to partly distance itself from belarus. a russia-belarus state union treaty was ratified in 1999, but in practice it has been largely ignored, while the single rouble currency union has been deferred to 2006. the municipal elections in march 2003 showed that some favourable political developments have taken in belarus. they showed that the democratic opposition parties have been afforded greater freedom and fairer treatment. the eu should respond to belarus accordingly by stepping up western contacts with pro-democracy parliamentarians who are willing to challenge the regime and are dedicated to making the country a fully-fledged member of the international community, and as such eventually entitled to a partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. experience from spain, greece and portugal suggests that given time and economic growth the transition from dictatorship to free market democracy is achievable everywhere in europe. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we do not find the situation in belarus satisfactory and the outcome of the attempts to help civil society and to support the democratization process is extremely frustrating. we must try to improve the functioning and capacity of our support and thus improve the leverage of the political measures that can be taken to promote the democratization of belarus. it is regrettable that the berlin wall, which has fallen across europe, still retains some sections on a border adjacent to the european union. there are still some fragments that we can place in belarus, and if one of the objectives of the european union's presence and action at world level is to support democratization and the defence of human rights, it is obvious that this objective and concern reach much higher dimensions when we talk about an immediate neighbour, that is to say our own border. i would point out that as a commission we cannot accept mr czarnecki ryszard's assertion that we are concerned only with the mediterranean and not with eastern europe. we have already dealt with eastern europe, for example, a few months ago we enlarged with eight eastern european countries, and in three years' time two new eastern european countries will join. when i see morocco, algeria, tunisia and other mediterranean countries as members of the european union, then i will say that we are more concerned with the mediterranean, but that is not the case now. the only thing we are offering to the mediterranean is a neighbourhood policy - it is our southern flank - and if you look at the demographic figures you will understand that, even if you are in poland, what happens in the mediterranean affects you in a very significant way. and if you are in poland - that is, in the european union - the mediterranean is your problem, not just the italians, maltese, cypriots, spaniards, portuguese or french. the mediterranean is your problem as a pole and as a member of the european union, let us not confuse values or objectives and priorities. eastern europe, europe - we call ourselves the european union for a reason - is also our priority. so much so that we have been able to expand, to grow - and we are still doing so at this moment - and there has been no talk of closing those borders. so let's put everything in its proper place. with regard to the various approaches, i shall refer first of all to the possibility of participating as observers in the next referendum and the next elections in belarus. i would first like to point out that the belarusian government has only invited the osce - specifically its office for democratic institutions and human rights - to participate as an observer and has not invited this parliament officially. the european union is ready to cooperate with the osce, which has been invited to attend as an observer only the parliamentary elections, not the referendum, to which we believe it should also be invited. we think it is important that this monitoring should be extended to the referendum. we will also continue to work to increase the number of observers and, if necessary, to include members of this european parliament. we must remember that this is not the case at the moment and that we need that invitation to be able to participate in these kinds of issues. the next point raised by various speakers is that the way we have acted so far is not effective enough, that it is not producing results and that we should be much more active. we as the commission are ready to promote this activity, but we must be aware that there are limitations. and some of you have said that not only spiritual help is needed, but financial help is needed. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is currently aid for belarus to promote democratization and the formation and strengthening of civil society, but we are keen to increase that aid. the european union will maintain its support for civil society and democratisation, regional and humanitarian cooperation, neighbourhood programmes and measures to facilitate movement in border areas. in particular, the european union's tacis programme provides for eur 10 million for the period 2005-06 and will focus on supporting civil society, cooperation in higher education and mitigating the consequences of the chernobyl accident, which unfortunately was not exactly an accident but a catastrophe. i should also say that the european initiative for democracy and human rights will play a more active role in belarus in the coming years. in particular, in 2005-06, belarusian candidates will be able to apply for support under two campaigns we are launching, dedicated to promoting a culture of human rights and to promoting democratic processes. but i repeat - as i said at the beginning of my speech in this debate - the belarusian authorities put administrative obstacles in the way of all the programmes of this kind of assistance that we are proposing, and we must be able to overcome these obstacles. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. yes, as long as the belarusian national authorities do not prevent us from facilitating the arrival of the current funds. is there funding? yes, and the ceiling is not being used because of the difficulties i have mentioned, raised by the belarusian authorities. we are concerned about the closure of newspapers, the limitation of freedom of expression, the persecution in some cases of opposition elements, and the outlawing of some political parties of course, we are presenting and maintaining our protest. in this connection, the council of ministers for general affairs - that is, the foreign ministers of the 25 member states of the union - protested yesterday against the developments in belarus. we protest against the closure of universities - particularly in minsk - and we will continue to do so, but we must know how far we can go, and that limit is set to a large extent by the authorities of belarus, which is obviously not a democracy but a dictatorship. i also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the family ties between belarusian citizens and citizens of eu countries should be used to promote the ideology of the european union, which is the ideology of freedom, the ideas of human dignity. i believe that cooperation between political parties must also be encouraged to the maximum and, in that sense, as i said, there are funds, there are possibilities, and this parliament and its members have a role to play. we must know that things are not easy, that the latest measures taken by the lukashenko regime do not seem to be improving the situation, but we must nevertheless trust the citizens of belarus. and it is not a question of telling their citizens that they are going to become members of the european union - as i heard some of the honourable members say a moment ago - but that they will be the ones to decide in the future whether to go ahead with their strategic alliance or with their reunification with neighbouring russia. we cannot indulge in such speeches, which can only create more tension. the main objective is the full democratization of belarus, the economic support to facilitate that democratization, and then, once that democratization is achieved through our neighbourhood policy, to support development and economic recovery as well as the improvement of conditions in that country, which is a european country and a neighbour of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
i should like to thank you, commissioner, and all the speakers in that important debate. i have received six motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the stocktaking of the follow-up to the commission's annual policy strategy for 2005. motions for resolutions on icao tabled pursuant to rule 108(5): see minutes
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the political priorities proposed by the commission for 2005 and to take stock of the results of our structured dialogue: a modus operandi which has been in force for three years and which has produced positive results, which has made our action more consistent and effective, interinstitutional cooperation more positive and the right of initiative of the european commission, which is one of its prerogatives, not in contradiction with listening to the demands and sensitivities of this parliament. i would remind you that on 25 february last we presented in the plenary the document on the annual political strategy for 2005, which had just been approved by the college of commissioners on the same day. we have, of course, laid out the broad lines of political priorities for the coming year in the sense of ensuring the proper functioning of an enlarged europe, reviving growth and improving competitiveness, in other words, everything that the lisbon strategy is about, promoting and protecting european citizenship and creating a circle of prosperity and stability with our neighbouring countries. it should be remembered that 2004 is a special year, a year of renewal for this house, and that it will soon see the replacement of the present commission by a new one. the modus operandi for establishing and promoting this structured dialogue between parliament and the commission has been modified and simplified in some respects over the last few years. in this connection, the commission met the conference of commission presidents on 20 april and had a very positive exchange of views, which replaced the discussions with the various committees. we have subsequently followed very closely the work of these parliamentary committees and the various resolutions which have been adopted in this house over the last few months, particularly with regard to the budgets for 2005 and the commission's annual political strategy. at the same time, we have had discussions with the council, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee on our proposals and they have all given their views. today we are taking stock of this dialogue and recalling that, in principle, this parliament has taken up favourably what have been our broad lines of proposals for a commission leaving - i insist - which bears witness to a new commission. the first of our priorities for 2005 is competitiveness and cohesion in an enlarged europe. in this connection, we would like to thank parliament for its support for our intention to move towards a real implementation of the lisbon strategy, to concentrate efforts on the achievement of fundamental objectives and to support common policies, including the common agricultural policy. the foundation of the european economy will continue to be laid on a sound macroeconomic policy geared to stability and based on sustainable public finances, especially in view of our demographic prospects. the basic factors will be an integrated strategy to improve competitiveness and structural reforms, to promote the knowledge-based economy and to ensure that the economic, labour, social, environmental and structural policies of the european union and the member states of the union work effectively and coherently while maintaining the competitiveness of our economy. the commission also stressed the need to give strong support to initiatives aimed at sustainable development and to improve the coherence between industrial policy and other community policies. i am particularly pleased to be able to mention the european parliament, with which we have made progress in this area of openness and competitiveness in various areas of my responsibility. since 1 july 2004, the electricity market has been a reality for non-household consumers and in march 2004 the commission adopted a very important liberalisation package for the railway sector. the latter represents a decisive step towards the creation of a fully integrated european global rail market by 2010, which is key to the competitiveness and sustainability of our transport system, and all this through the gradual opening of the rail passenger market. i do not want to highlight issues which have already received support and approval throughout 2004, such as the networks, the launch of the single sky or the measures to be taken on galileo before the end of the year as regards the decision on the contracting party for the construction and management of galileo. the second major priority is security and european citizenship. the commission has noted a growing interest on the part of this parliament and the council in strengthening european action in the field of security, in particular by reinforcing checks at the external borders of the enlarged european union, by better managing migratory flows, and parliament has also expressed - and it could not have been less - concern about strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism at european level. these are extremely sensitive issues for citizens and are linked to the creation of this area of justice and security. in june, the commission took stock of the progress made since the tampere european council in 1999, and following the reaction of all the institutions, in particular the european parliament, the commission will continue its work in the field of justice and home affairs. the new multiannual programme for justice and home affairs - which is expected to be endorsed by the european council on 5 november - and new support measures in the context of the next financial perspective will be launched in 2005. the terrorist attacks in madrid have dramatically reminded us of the threat of international terrorism to the european union and have made more tangible than ever the urgent need to combat it. all the institutions, and in particular the european parliament, have underlined their willingness to continue this fight. this morning, president borrell was referring to this essential point. and all this, as mr poettering said in his speech, without prejudice to human rights, individual rights and the objective and the will to provide support to the victims of terrorist acts, which is an essential issue in this fight. the commission intends to continue to work in this direction. the third element is our external responsibility and, in particular, the association and neighbourhood policy. we have just had a debate on belarus, but it must be remembered that the commission has noted widespread support for an ambitious neighbourhood policy and has set out its views on this in the communication of 12 may 2004 adopted by the european council in june. as regards the enlargement process, the commission confirms that it is working towards the accession of romania and bulgaria in january 2007. following the decision of the european council in june, the commission will start an active phase of negotiations with croatia in early 2005 and will draw up a pre-accession strategy. the commission will publish its recommendation on turkey in october and will have to adjust its activities in 2005 to the decision of the european council due at the end of this year. as the council and parliament have stressed, europe's international commitments must be maintained in 2005 along with increased european responsibility, in order to foster effective multilateralism. the eu will continue to support the development of the region and its economic and social development, and will continue to support the development of the region's economic and social development. let me briefly touch on two issues which are particularly important for next year. firstly, the future financial perspective, the objectives of which correspond largely to the priorities proposed for 2005. the commission is aware of the importance of doing what is necessary to get everything ready by 1 january 2007 and that is why the present commission has already put forward proposals this year, especially in february and july, and plans to present a new package of measures to be adopted on 29 september in the areas of jha, relex and the environment which are still pending. the year 2005 will be crucial and essential to making progress in the preparations for close interinstitutional cooperation, but it will also be crucial that these financial perspectives can be adopted as soon as possible in 2005 or very early in 2006 if we want them to be really effective in 2007. i would remind you that the commission's proposal in this area takes account, on the one hand, of the austerity required by, for example, the stability pact for all public finances, but also of the realism with regard to the political ambitions expressed repeatedly not only by the council but also by this parliament. strengthening our capacities for the protection of the external borders means more investment by the european union in this sector, which may allow greater facilities at the level of certain states. if we really want to boost a competitive and dynamic society, we need to increase investment in the research and development sector to support european research and innovation capacity, and that calls for more funding in this sector. we must not forget that cohesion policy is one of the objectives of european policy. we cannot claim this policy if we do not have the necessary funds. we believe that the proposal to maintain the ceiling of 1.24 as a compromise and raise it to 1.14 as a spending ceiling is a good balance between austerity and realism. any further cuts would be hugely negative and would mean giving up many of the policies that are being called for. the second point i would like to make, ladies and gentlemen, is that of impact assessments on the commission's proposals. the commission is developing and extending the use of such assessments to better define and justify its proposals. in 2004, the commission services gradually extended the use of impact assessments with the aim of making them a common practice in 2005, applied to the main documents - policy definitions, legislative documents - as well as to all proposals with a significant economic, social or environmental impact, points included in the commission's work programme and legislative programme and of great importance to this parliament. in february, when i was making my presentation, i stressed that this was a complex proposal and procedure, because we are a commission that is passing the baton to the next commission. when the prodi commission set up the strategic planning and programming cycle, it wanted to involve the other institutions. today, at the end of his term, i am pleased to note, as the person responsible for relations with the european parliament, that the balance sheet is highly positive. interinstitutional dialogue has helped to foster greater mutual understanding and to develop a shared vision that allows for greater efficiency in the direction of our policies. i hope that the future commission will draw the conclusions it deems appropriate and, if necessary, propose revisions to the current procedures which will make the methods adopted during this period even more effective.
the debate is now suspended and will resume immediately after the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 and resumed at 12.00)
mr president, i wish to know whether i am allowed to make an explanation of vote.
in writing. as the united kingdom conservatives spokesman on the budgets committee i wish to explain why we voted against the two draft amending budget reports nos 7/2004 and 8/2004 today. the united kingdom conservative members of the european parliament are totally opposed to any suggestion, or proposal, that the british rebate should be reduced. why should britain suffer for its economic success over the last 20 years?
thank you, mr daul, for the work you do.
mr president, one of the three policy priorities for 2005 in the commission's annual policy strategy is security and european citizenship. the parliament and certainly the alde group can only agree, but let us look at whether the rhetoric is being translated into reality in the relevant policy areas, in terms of both proposed budgetary resources and democratic accountability to our citizens. some of my comments are directed at the council and i am very sorry to see that they are not in their place. taking first the area of asylum and immigration and external borders, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – when adopting the report of our rapporteur, mr deprez, last night – insisted that the funding for the programme on return management in the area of migration proposed by the commission be put into the reserve until, firstly, the council move to codecision, which is required by the treaties but which they have done nothing about, and secondly, there is a proper legislative act. we fully support this programme, but are disappointed that we are being asked to approve something which is lacking in legislative and democratic certainty. we are aware that there is good work going on in the area of integration and reception of asylum seekers, but we think there should be more money in areas like the european refugee fund. the european agency for the management of the external borders still does not have a permanent seat. there has been a lot of talk about external borders, but the council cannot even decide on where the seat should be. in the area of crime and terrorism, next year only a modest increase is proposed by the commission in the budget for eurojust, which is a key player in the fight against serious crime. the committee on civil liberties wants to increase the funding by two-thirds if we are going to be serious about cross-border efforts to tackle crime. as to the area dealing with reinforcing respect for human rights and the rule of law, let me give you one example: the commission is proposing to cut the funding for the research and evaluation programme on respect for fundamental rights, which includes funding for the network of experts on fundamental rights. these examples perhaps show the gap between rhetoric and reality. we need to put our money where our mouth is to be credible and not create disillusionment among the citizens of europe.
mr president, i would like to comment on the issue of competitiveness because it is very important in europe today. most people have little trust in the eu and that often arises because we do not show the right kind of qualities to the people in terms of our deregulatory attitude. we do not have sufficient fiscal discipline in our countries. we do not look at taxes which encourage people rather than discourage them, and although the currency has been debated elsewhere this week, the issue of discipline within currencies is of critical importance in a very competitive world. we in the uk are not members of the single currency. i see no reason for us to be members but we still have an interest in the success of the single currency in europe. we also need to be concerned in our own country with sterling, and indeed with all the other major currencies of the world. we cannot simply sit back and allow these matters to develop in a random way. to set a good example to new member states aspiring to join the single currency, it is important that the member states which are already members of the single currency demonstrate the necessary disciplines and controls. i wish the currency well, but it is essential that we remember that we are now dealing with a world that is full of other countries with developing economies, in asia and in china, countries that are not going to wait, countries that are very disciplined indeed when it comes to their fiscal arrangements and the currencies in which they operate. there is no alternative. a policy of that kind best serves the citizens of all the countries of europe who look to their governments to provide them with continued good quality of life. my message is that fiscal responsibility is the key component in meeting those needs.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank the various speakers for their kind words about the cooperation i have had with this parliament. i would like to begin by referring to mr daul, with whom we have been working together in his capacity as president of the conference of committee chairmen throughout this period to facilitate cooperation between parliament and the commission. i would remind you that when this commission took office we had a very difficult relationship. a commission had just been forced to resign, precisely because of the pressure and the debates and the situation of confrontation with this parliament. the aim was to put that situation back together and to provide a completely different basis for rebuilding the cooperation that is absolutely necessary for the construction of europe between the two institutions, which in one way or another represent the interests of the european union. in this connection, i would like to thank parliament, the members and also the officials of this house, as well as the officials of the european commission who worked on the various documents and agreements at the time, for the fact that we were able to work out a framework agreement and then this modus operandi of structured dialogue between parliament and the commission, and that, through these two documents, which have now been completed by the interinstitutional agreement - in which the council also participates for better regulation - and which are the result of discussions, negotiations, not easy but where we all had the best interest in making things go well and work to build europe better. i would like to thank all the members who were directly responsible for this and all the people who have been involved in this work for their active participation and cooperation. mr daul referred to the progress and the fruits of this structured dialogue and to the need for improvement in the future. i also believe that we can improve the way it works, but i understand that this will be negotiated with the incoming commission and i wish them the best of luck in those talks and in those improvements. he spoke at the end about better communication, making democracy more participatory and improving efficiency. we all agree on that. he spoke of the timely presentation of legislative programmes and the introduction of new concepts which have hitherto been virtually ignored, such as the possibilities for national parliaments in the future with regard to certain texts. i mean, of course, all of that will have to be incorporated, but there are also limits if we do not want to radically paralyse the whole machinery. in any case, coordination with the council is something that needs to be improved and we are working on it and the coherence between legislative programmes and budgets. the key point to see if that is true will be the adoption of the future financial perspectives. if these financial perspectives are to reflect the political priorities of the european union today, then they must be independent of the specific agreements that exist on specific aspects. that'll have to wait. their lords will be active here. i shall be on another point, but i shall of course be following the debates in question with great attention. it has been pointed out that there are issues that are still outstanding, of course, and issues that have been talked about even more ambitiously. well, it is possible. although it is not for me to say, and president prodi will say it before this house, i think that the overall balance of this commission has been frankly positive. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. besides, things can always be improved. i believe that the new enlargement presents great challenges, that we must continue to make progress in the good neighbour policy and the balkan stability pact by making them correspond to very concrete actions, for example, the creation of the electricity and gas market in all the balkans are very concrete actions related to the balkan stability pact that can and must be continued by the new commission and, throughout 2005, must have a great push. i believe that there must be a balance between competitiveness, social europe and the environment, but we must remember that if we do not have competitiveness, if we do not generate wealth in a globalised world, we will hardly be able to respond to a social europe or to environmental concerns. that's something we can't forget. competitiveness is the key, and without competitiveness, without wealth and job creation, we will only get frustration, because we will have promised and agreed on approaches that will be unrealizable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that there are very important aspects of public transport which are affected by the altmark judgment, which is a key judgment which will have to be taken into account not only in relation to the transport sector but in relation to all public services in the european union and the introduction of competition and the possibility of public support to ensure a certain level of services, but in a transparent and competitive way. i would like to thank mrs grossetête for her kind words and here i fully enter into a matter which i consider essential: the problem of competitiveness in a number of respects. the only way to ensure that the new countries in the world have the opportunity to do so is to have a certain type of production which has less technological input or which has no problems in being built or produced in remote locations, which do not have to be close to the consumer. but offshoring can also sometimes occur because we don't measure well not our goals, but the instruments to achieve them. and i want to make an appeal on the kyoto protocol and the emissions trading directive. we have a directive which has been adopted and we must comply with it, but i also want to make a comment which i have made publicly in the commission. it is not a question of disqualifying with easy comments on whether one is for or against the kyoto protocol. i'm not sure. i'm all for the protocol. i support reducing greenhouse gases. i believe that this is one of the most important challenges, not only for the european union but for humanity as a whole. it is a challenge that really endangers the future of humanity if it is not addressed in the right way. in that sense, energy efficiency, support for renewable energy, a real, honest and brave language about nuclear energy. this is absolutely necessary and, of course, i say this from my own harvest, i want to say it so clearly, i think that the next commission and this parliament have to deal with the issue in the coming years. time passes, the urgency is seen. this summer and last summer we're starting to see the first manifestations of simply the increase of less than one degree in the average temperature on the planet. if that's the case, we can't fall for solutions that are false good solutions. let me explain: the emissions trading system can be a good system if it is framed in a global agreement where that emissions trading is going to produce some real effects. if this system is to be put in a situation where only the european union assumes these responsibilities, where there is no ratification of kyoto by russia or the united states - the only two countries that could provide the critical mass to allow it to enter into force - we may find ourselves losing our steel, cement, tile, ceramic or other energy-consuming industries, which would not mean that it would stop polluting, because it would be polluting in third countries with much less demanding conditions. steel, cement or ceramics would still be produced and we would have to import them into europe, adding the cost and emissions of the associated transportation and, theoretically, we would be meeting that emission reduction. is that reduction in emissions a reality on the global global balance sheet? no, sir, i did not. this is something to be taken into account because we are putting parts of our industry at risk without, in the end, having any real consequences, in essence, reducing emissions worldwide. that cannot be done unless we have the courage to face the problems of nuclear energy, to face them, and transparency and information to the citizens and hence the commission's proposals. and to know that europe will have to increase its nuclear power and capacity and that there can be no easy talk about this if we want to maintain growth and a level of competitiveness and, in addition, fight against climate change. and we have to do it on a global scale. europe alone does not count. we'll reduce, by doing all these efforts that i was talking about, by 400 million tons a year of co2 emissions, more or less. china alone is going to increase its emissions by 4 billion tons of co2 every year for the next 15 years. these are major challenges which will have to be tackled urgently in the coming years and i hope that this parliament will do so and i am certainly sure that the next commission will do so. the nuclear issue is a personal position, but i think that either we are facing this situation or we are certainly not taking full responsibility. it is an exercise in responsibility, because we all know that they have great difficulties in terms of popularity and public acceptance. and that is why we must explain, inform, give transparency, give security, give guarantees. the brain drain. it is not just that our brains are fleeing, it is that to the united states, which is our ally, our friend and our partner, not only our brains are fleeing, but the best brains in the whole world. and europe receives almost no brains from third countries. we have ceased to be a magnet for intelligence, innovation and research. that's the key to the future. europe must take it up and it is one of the priorities we have set in the next financial perspective and we hope that it will be understood as such. i would point out that as regards the aspects raised by mr kirkhope on competitiveness, he referred mainly to fiscal responsibility, to the coherence of the major economic policies, i can only agree with him on that. i think that the debate which is taking place at the moment at european level on improving the functioning of the stability pact is very important and that is what we have to deal with. and that means giving certainty and security, that is, we cannot increase discretion in the assessment of certain types of circumstances. discretion must be avoided to avoid arbitrariness. it must be framed and not exist in order to provide certainty and clarity and guarantees for the markets. as regards security, mr itälä has spoken of security, the environment, competitiveness, the stability pact; i fully agree with what he has said, as i did with all that mrs thyssen has said before on the problems of boosting competition and cohesion; i think the kok report is a great basis for working on this, and mrs ludford, who spoke of rhetoric and reality, i want to point out that i cannot agree with her, although sometimes in politics we all know that the realities are not exactly what we say. but there are the concrete realities of budgetary efforts, the jha item is one of the items which, on the commission's proposal, in the draft financial perspective 2007-2013 are multiplied in the commission's proposal. the council will make the final decisions ... this parliament must also give its opinion on this. as to whether or not mr dillen has spoken of divisions, i shall not go into that. it is obvious that not everyone is always in agreement, but in the end an agreement is reached - and that is democracy - on the basis of what is the majority opinion, which is the opinion of the institution. over the years, we in the commission have not always had the same position, but we had to reach agreements and we all supported that position. ladies and gentlemen, it has been an honour for me to have represented the commission in relations with the european parliament, to have been elected, and in that sense i would like to thank president prodi for his confidence in me, who proposed to me the vice-presidency for relations with the european parliament. i must say that i not only accepted, but i asked for it and i loved it, because first of all i consider myself a member of parliament. i have tried to cooperate loyally with this house over the years and i think i have succeeded. i would also like to say, above all, that i would like to thank you for the work you have done in codecision, where, in general, you have always brought improvements - sometimes we make little monsters to reach a consensus - but the overall balance is enormously positive, in that this parliament brings the sensitivity of the citizens of the european union which is complemented by the sensitivity of the governments of the european union. in this interactive dialogue, where the commission puts forward the proposal and then acts as a mediator, i think we have given greater realism to the proposals that have been adopted in recent times. i understand that the reforms which are incorporated in the new constitutional treaty, which we all hope will be duly ratified as soon as possible, complement, generalize and extend these functions of parliament, simply by extending the european parliament, which already today has practically all the functions of any parliament in the world, to all areas of legislative responsibility. i would like to point out that the monitoring task has been enormously effective, at times uncomfortable, but enormously effective on the part of your lords and your predecessors, in a responsible, intelligent, professional and loyal manner. i am sure that this new parliament and the new commission will continue this work. these are the essential elements of the european parliament, which is one of the three great institutions that allows everyone to participate in this formidable, unique project of building europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mrs de palacio, i am not sure whether you will be seen in this chamber again, so i would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much indeed for the outstanding way in which you have cooperated with the european parliament. i should also like to thank you and your staff for the commitment and seriousness – and charm – that you brought to your other work in the commission. i wish you every possible success in the future. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, dr brüner, the director general of olaf, which is responsible for investigating european union fraud and corruption, told the committee on budgetary control at its last meeting that it was not his job to snoop. his annual report said not a word about the eu's own accounting system, which has been shown to be structurally fraudulent and lacks financial cohesion. it can never comply with even the minimum standards required by the eu itself of companies all over europe. dr brüner failed to address any of the critically important issues of institutionalised malpractice identified in this organisation by experienced accountants. basic financial records are not being kept; double-entry bookkeeping is still not the norm; cash and bank balances are still not being reconciled, nor are budgets and expenses; advances are recorded as expenditure, which is fraudulent; loans which disappear are written off, which is both a loss of public funds and tax fraud; and records of assets and liabilities in past years are changed retrospectively, which is also fraudulent. i put it to dr brüner at that meeting: 'if you are not investigating this disgraceful situation, then who is?' and i got no answer. i now put that question to this parliament and to the commission: who is responsible for what is being done to end the european union's structural and institutional fraud and corruption?
i need advice. mr president, may i begin by congratulating you, mr ouzký, on your first speech as vice-president of the european parliament. i am very grateful to you and your members for the many interesting and substantive comments that have been made. i have also heard many critical and concerned comments from you. i think this is the beginning of an interesting discussion which we will continue later this year. i should like to make a few brief comments on some important points, but i shall have to do so somewhat staccato, somewhat briefly. i think mr lewandowski started with perhaps one of the most principled remarks when he referred to what the citizens of europe expect from us, from this budget - look at the last european parliament elections - and he called it, in my view, indeed the central concept of 'added value'. that is precisely what the council is aiming at: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nevertheless, he and the council, hearing him, differ on a number of points as to how that surplus value should be viewed. i do not think that the added value is primarily for european citizens, that as much money as possible is brought to europe and then returned to those citizens for charitable purposes. but i think the biggest concern, when it comes to the added value of citizens in europe, is what is the added value of europe doing this. that europe does this and that we do not organise this at a lower level, national or otherwise. that is at least a guide for us as the council in the light of this budget and it also says something, mr president, about what is not on the agenda now but has been mentioned by some of your members, namely the new financial perspective. i do not agree with mr lewandowski when he suggests that we would have used the cheese grater in our proposals - the council's draft budget against the commission's proposals - mainly, as we call it in the netherlands. that we would have worked across the board with generic discounts. i think that we have made choices in this budget, which may be different, but which are choices and which have not been easy choices for the council. mr garriga also made a very interesting observation in his comparison between the increase in national budgets over a number of years and the increase in the european budget. he argued that the european budget had grown so much less than the national budget over a period of years. and if you look at that in a more precise way, i think that might lead to a different understanding as well. the last few years, especially since the economic recession of 2000, have shown a very different picture of the national budget. i have only to mention the debate on the stability pact to make you understand what i mean. secondly, i would like to refer back to that very interesting comparison by mr garriga that the national authorities have responsibilities which the european union does not have, of course, and which are related to increases, such as social security, health care and education. that is a very different kind of budget from the european budget, which still consists of almost half agricultural expenditure and almost 30% structural expenditure. i would like to oppose strongly the general criticisms which some of your members, mr president, have used as if the council were acting as an accountant. i would even go so far as to say that the opposite is true, because we have certainly not set ourselves up as accountants, but as politicians, as politically responsible people who make choices, and again not easy choices. the fact that we as a council are going against your views and, as mrs trüpel said, are dealing with a very independent parliament, which in itself i of course welcome. but i cannot help saying that, in my view, politics is not just the formulation of priorities, but also the daring to formulate the posteriorities, and we all know that this is generally the most difficult thing to do, but i think it is necessary in order to arrive at financial priorities. in this sense, i hope that some of your members have not suggested any contradiction here in terms of the responsibility that we both feel as branches of the budgetary authority, you as parliament and we as council, for all the citizens of europe, with the important background that we as council have in the economic situation of recession, the fact that choices have to be made and the fact that we see this added value, as stated in response to mr lewandowski's words, as an important part of the added value of european interventions compared to national ones. that brings me to an example that mrs trüpel mentioned, the enormous importance of culture, the enormous importance of cultural policy does not mean that it has to be european. it is not, i think, that the more important, how europeser. it is still a question of value added, at what level that can best be done. i would like to raise a few more points, mr president, which have been raised by spokesmen on your side. i should like to begin by mentioning the remark made by mrs schreyer, and some of your members have spoken about it, about the structural funds and the communication made by mrs schreyer, that the rate of exhaustion is indeed higher than previously assumed. it also mentioned the discussion on corporation tax and its objection to a link between that discussion and the structural policy discussion. i would like to stress that we are awaiting the commission's detailed proposal on this point, and that the starting point for the council and for this presidency is and remains that we are not going to deal with the expenditure for the new member states, that we are not going to deal with the agreements reached in copenhagen. as regards payment appropriations, some of you have understandably pointed this out, particularly mr garriga, who was the first to draw attention to this and to make critical remarks on the council's proposals as compared with those of the commission, but i think that he has already had a reply, although perhaps not intended, from mr seppänen, if i pronounce your name correctly, who pointed out that five billion had been returned for 2003, and i can tell him and you, mr president, that five billion had already been returned. if we are talking about an order of 10 billion in repayments, i think that puts the remarks on the payment credits in a slightly different light. many of you have rightly mentioned the importance of new priorities, the importance of new countries, the importance of solidarity, which is why i was so attached to that emphatic statement about the non-breaking of agreements and the expectations that rightly exist there. agriculture, mr president, has been mentioned by some of you, mr ferber has mentioned it, mr mulder has raised it. i would also like to stress that we are not going to ignore agreements and we are not going to ignore the rights of farmers. we will have the latest figures, as mr mulder rightly said, the latest figures from the commission in october, but we will always fulfil our obligation in this area. some, such as mr garriga and mrs jensen, have also mentioned the agencies as a concern. i was reminded that earlier last year the european parliament was worried about the extra expenditure on these agencies and now it seems to be worried, at least for a few hours, about not having enough money. i think that we have certainly made a very reasonable proposal for the activities of the new agencies. the flexibility instrument has been mentioned, mr president, and it has been linked in particular to the importance of external policy. the essence of the flexibility instrument, and you will agree with me, is that it deals with unexpected and unforeseen matters. so not for things we can plan in advance. i think it is of the utmost importance and would be in everyone's interest to keep that space and not to use the flexibility instrument in the way previously proposed for external policy. the whole category, the whole foreign policy, on which mr lewandowski and others have also made critical and concerned remarks. i share these concerns to a certain extent, because we too have not been happy to be cut in this category, perhaps even less so than in other categories, given the responsibility that we as europe - indeed i very much agree with the comments made - have increasingly in the world. on the other hand, we have proposed important exceptions to this reduction in our proposal, as you have seen, and that is of course the main priority 'iraq' and the common foreign and security policy in general. i would like to make some comparisons here, because if you look at the development of this budget over the last few years, you will see that there has been a huge increase in this category. finally, mr president, some of you have made some indirect comments on the new financial perspectives. i shall not go into this further because fortunately we have an informal opportunity to speak about it with your coordinators from all the groups in this parliament afterwards, as we also agreed in the conciliation to inform you properly, but let me make one comment on this because some of your members have spoken about it, the 1% letter, the approach of this presidency. do not worry, i am here, we are here as dutchmen, not as dutchmen, but as the presidency of the european union, and that means that it is our responsibility to reach agreement in the council as far as possible on at least the principles and the starting points for the next multiannual budget at the end of this year. in this connection, we have - and i am glad to take this opportunity to say so in response to the comments - as the presidency rightly opted for an approach which moves away from the welles-nots about the 1%, which goes to the substantive discussion: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we hope that in this way, with the so-called building blocks approach, we will have an open discussion on the substance, which is exactly the way, mr president, i believe that we have already begun here today with your parliament.
the commission. i would like to make a few comments on the debate. first of all, on the penultimate speaker: i would ask you to take note that our external auditor is not a company but an independent, autonomous european institution, namely the european court of auditors, which annually audits the accounting, the budgetary and the balance sheet and concludes each year that the accounts are reliable. it then makes a few remarks, but that is the overall result and makes it clear in particular that they are in line with european rules. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. there is no parliament in the member states that is so well informed, and of course i have introduced this because, particularly for the budgetary consultation, you need to know the state of implementation of the individual programmes in order to decide on the right approach for next year. we can see from this that the rate of implementation of expenditure under the structural funds has accelerated radically this year. this is not only because we were able to make the first advance payments to the new member states, but also, and especially in the old member states, for the programmes for the years 2000 to 2006. that is why we must have a very intensive debate with the council on this point, because it simply does not make sense to put too little into the budget and then have to submit a supplementary budget. mr mulder, you asked me specifically when we would send the information on pilot projects and preparatory measures to the committee on budgets. we hope to have it by the 15th, but we need the information from many dgs; it will be no later than september 20th. i think that was a very lively debate on the 2005 budget. i would like to thank the commission for this and i think it is right that we are having this debate with such enthusiasm, because i am sure that many citizens will be interested in what the first budget for the enlarged union, adopted by an enlarged union, will look like.
commission. mr president, it is with considerable pleasure that i can inform you and parliament that the commission has today adopted a proposal that modifies national regimes of design protection so as to liberalise the secondary market in spare parts for repair purposes. following the opinion of this parliament in favour of liberalisation, the commission attempted to harmonise and liberalise the market before, in 1996. member states, however, were at that time not able to agree with a view shared by the commission and this parliament. instead they requested that the commission revisit the subject at a later date, which is what we have done. the proposal, which is of particular importance to the market in automobiles, would remove internal market barriers that have thus far remained. it would allow independent parts manufacturers to compete throughout the eu market for visible, 'must-match' replacement parts, such as bonnets, bumpers, doors, lamps, windscreens and wings. they must match the spare part produced by the manufacturer: in looks they must be identical. potentially that market is worth billions of euros. opinions differ as to the amount: the manufacturers themselves estimate eur 2.5 billion per year, others eur 10 billion. non-visible parts - e.g. engine parts or mechanical parts - are not affected by this proposal, neither are components in new vehicles, i.e. the primary market is not affected. we are talking here about the repair market. therefore, at most, only 25% of the entire spare-part market will be affected. however, the proposal will give significant benefits to that part of the market. firstly, it would give consumers better choice and value when they buy spare parts. the commission estimates that spare parts are 6-10% more expensive in member states where they are subject to design protection. people are entitled to value for money throughout the life of a vehicle, and this proposal will help them get it. secondly, on employment, liberalisation should have a positive net impact on eu jobs, benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. new jobs ought to be created by the growth of the market, in both the production and distribution of spare parts. eu parts manufacturers will be able to produce in the european union parts for supplying import and export markets. car makers from japan or any other third country manufacturing or selling in the european union would no longer be able to keep eu producers out of the market. thirdly, europe's competitiveness would benefit. the lack of harmonised rules is burdensome for companies. independent parts manufacturers remain squeezed out of the market for visible replacement parts in many member states. under the proposal, car manufacturers would, moreover, retain full and exclusive rights covering the use of designs for the production and sale of new vehicles. that should be sufficient to reward their investment in design and to maintain a strong incentive to innovate. fourthly and finally, a remark on safety. the liberalisation of design protection for replacement car parts has no impact on safety. design protection covers only the outward appearance of products. the proposal would therefore not affect the safety or quality of spare parts. safety standards, moreover, are governed by other eu and national laws. they set objective minimum standards for all spare parts. all producers would continue to have to respect these. the commission, independently of the adoption of the proposal today, will undertake a study to ensure that all safety concerns will be addressed by those directives. as members will be aware, the proposal has been the subject of intense lobbying on the part of car manufacturers, who are about to turn the full focus of their attention on members of this parliament. their campaign has been a classic example of the narrow vested interests of the few, namely a handful of large car manufacturers with huge resources trying to undermine the broader interests of the many, namely car owners, throughout europe. i appeal to members of this parliament to stand firm as the commission has done. after all, the commission's proposal strikes the right balance. it protects the advantages of design protection where it matters, which is in the primary market for new cars; but it also makes sure that goods can move freely throughout the european union and that competition is not distorted by indefensible monopolies.
mr president, as ppe-de group coordinator for the internal market and consumer affairs, i certainly welcome the direction that the commission is going in to remove a further anomaly in the internal market, one which is clearly most unsatisfactory in partitioning the market at the moment. we are waiting with great interest to see the commission's proposal. i was also pleased to have some reassurance from the commission that it recognises that there are other consumer protection issues, particularly in relation to safety, which need to be looked at. speaking as draftsman of the opinion of our committee on the pedestrian protection requirements on motor vehicles, on which this house has spent a great deal of time, i have to say that since 1996 things have moved on as regards the important contribution that visible parts make to pedestrian protection. we need assurances that it will not be possible for independent manufacturers to supply parts, such as bonnets or bumpers, that will not meet the pedestrian protection standards demanded by this house. that is a significant issue, considering the overall consumer benefits and harmonisation of this proposal. secondly, i should like to ask the commissioner to confirm that he will be sending us a full economic and impact appraisal of this proposal. i was slightly surprised that he thought there would be a growth market in these components. given that all the targets that we are again looking at in this house suggest that we wish casualties from motor vehicle accidents to decline significantly over the next ten years – by implication that suggests to me that the market in repair parts from accident damage, which is what we are talking about here, is likely to go down, not up – i would like to ask the commissioner what his justification is for suggesting in this worthwhile proposal that it will be driven by growth markets. i regard it as dealing with an anomaly in the marketplace, but i want to make sure that the anomaly is not achieved at the expense of road safety. i want to make sure that the complexities of this are justified in terms of real economic benefit, both to the european economy and to consumers.
the commission madam president, i am sorry, but this is my first time speaking as a commissioner in parliament and i do not know all the procedures. in reply to your question, mrs mcavan, i should like to tell you that through its current activities eurostat contributes in various ways to the work of the world health organisation, within the framework of the community statistical programme 2003-2007, and in particular, as regards public health statistics, eurostat collects, confirms and publishes annual data on causes of death for the member states of the european union, the candidate countries and the countries of the european free trade association, both at national and regional level. data collection is carried out in coordination with the world health organization and, of course, the latter is regularly informed about eurostat's work on public health statistics and is invited to relevant meetings. more particularly, with regard to statistics on causes of death, important issues concerning the quality and comparability of data remain to be resolved. for example, issues that were very well established in the report comparability and quality improvement of european causes of death statistics. among the causes described in this report are issues of certification, including the question of the accuracy of data on sudden unexplained death of young people. activities to improve the quality of data have been initiated in close coordination with the member states and the world health organisation in order to provide member states with better training tools. for doctors certifying deaths as well as for medical students, the european union training programme on certification of causes of death has been developed jointly with the member states. in addition to work on improving the death certification process, other quality improvement activities are being carried out, such as the implementation of automated coding in the member states.
thank you very much for that reply and for the information about eurostat's work. the collection of information might seem like a very dry subject, but the problem at the moment is that, without such information, no proper research can take place into why people die very suddenly, particularly young people. as a result research is not carried out. in the case of cot deaths 20 years ago, we changed the classification and then more research was done. my follow-up question is more a request to the commission - to whoever is responsible for eurostat - that part of the training for those who certify death should look at the question of sudden unexplained deaths. at the moment, people often put down heart failure, for example, and then it is not clear that the death is totally and utterly unexplained. it is very important that training should focus on that particular issue. i would also ask you to ask eurostat to keep members of the european parliament informed in this area. the who is going to revise its guidelines at its meeting in october. i hope that, through cooperation with who, we will be kept informed about what changes are made and that we will see improvements in the kind of classification, which may lead to better research and the prevention of these unexplained deaths.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to be able to debate in this parliament. the coincidence of the previous debate on belarus and the current debate on genetically modified organisms shows that the honourable member is doing a good job of defending his views, which is his role. i would like to tell you that the current community legislation, which is the result of negotiations between this parliament and the council on a proposal from the commission, has finally agreed to give the commission the power to authorise a genetically modified organism through a regulatory procedure called the comitology procedure. this procedure - as the honourable member is aware - is used in many areas of community legislation, is covered by current legislation, and allows the member states of the union to play an important role, as well as the participation of the european parliament. this procedure does not entitle the commission to act against a majority in the council. however, when there is not a sufficient majority in the council - when there is a majority but not enough - for or against the proposed measure, the commission can and must act. the commission is therefore only fulfilling its obligation to apply community law by authorizing this line nk 603, and i would point out to you that the companies have a legitimate expectation that their applications will be dealt with fairly and objectively, in accordance with the community legislation in force as approved by this parliament and the council. as regards the new varieties, all of them will be analysed in their proper terms, with the two essential objectives of ensuring their traceability and verifying their safety from the point of view of health and environmental effects. in this sense, each new variety that is proposed will have to be analysed in an individual approval. generic type-approvals are not granted.
would the commissioner agree that any gm product that is going to be put into the food chain will be adequately labelled so that consumers can see exactly what they are selecting and that it will have been properly tested and be safe for human consumption? could she also respond to the original question, in which the questioner says that bringing these products into our market might in some way result in unfair competition with products within the european union? is this not essentially a betrayal of the point that our farmers and our industry should take up this new technology and use it if they are going to compete in the future?
commission. the deadline for the transposition of council directive 2000/43/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin was 19 july 2003, and the deadline for council directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation was december 2003 with the possibility of an additional three years to transpose the provisions on age and disability discrimination. for the new member states, the deadline for the transposition of both directives was 1 may 2004. in its role as guardian of the treaties, the commission has launched infringement proceedings against member states which have failed to transpose the race discrimination and employment framework directives into national law by the abovementioned deadlines. five member states have been referred to the european court of justice for their failure to transpose the racial equality directive into national law. for those member states which have already transposed the directives, the commission is currently examining in detail the national legislation to check that it accurately reflects the requirements of the directives. should this not be the case, the commission will take the appropriate measures.
i want to commend the commissioner and his predecessor for the seriousness with which they have taken enforcement action on these directives. however, given the sheer number of european citizens affected by these directives concerning age, disability, race, sexual orientation and religion - this is not about minorities - does he find it surprising that there is such a contrast between the speed with which the commission and this parliament pushed through this legislation and the way that the council and six member states in particular have treated these directives in their failure to implement them?
mr president, i would like to say at the very outset that everything i saw in darfur confirmed the view that what we are seeing there is a genocide. the evidence and the testimonies that we took from the people we spoke to all referred to collaboration between the janjaweed and the government of sudan. what the people talked about was coordinated violence against them. it was not random violence, it was coordinated by the janjaweed with the assistance and collusion of the government of sudan. we heard of decapitation, burning, brutality, terror and awful suffering from the people that we spoke to. it was only in 1994, when i was in rwanda, that i ever saw the degree of terror in people's eyes that i saw in those camps in darfur and in chad. we need to see an effective global arms embargo, an international commission of inquiry; we need targeted sanctions against those, both in government and business, who have been connected with these atrocities and i believe that there should be an oil embargo. 320 000 barrels of oil are produced each day but the benefits of those barrels of oil never reach the people of sudan. to both the commission and the council i would say that in al fasha the african union expressed no enthusiasm for an increased protection force. they had little coordination with the united nations or discussion on the plan of action. they called for more monitors and for an international policing and human rights monitoring force. they said they were not able to deal with the current challenges they faced, never mind having to deal with a substantially increased force. they were very clear and very adamant on that. to both the commission and council i would also say that the plan of action agreed by the un is leading to the government of sudan now deploying forces towards the safe areas, into the rebel areas, and causing immense instability and difficulty. they are contravening the no-fly zone. when we landed in al fasha, an attack helicopter was hovering overhead. on our visit to one village, we saw the rockets that had been fired at the people, destroying the village and sending the people scattering into the bush. we want to hear no more of 'never again' from anyone in the international community. we have to challenge the government of sudan and stop its relentless orwellian denial of what is happening in its country. the pattern of violence must stop.
mr president, i was a member of last week's delegation to darfur and i want to focus on the humanitarian situation there. as a result of brutal attacks by the government of sudan and its allied militia, a quarter of the population of darfur had fled their homes in terror. two hundred thousand had crossed over the border into chad and 1 200 000 are internally displaced within sudan. humanitarian access has improved - as the council stated - but we were told that one in three is still cut off from assistance because of the rains and the lack of capacity, and because of ongoing clashes between government and rebel forces. this adds up to a situation of enormous fragility. all displaced persons need access to humanitarian aid and they will need it for at least another 18 months because they have not been able to grow crops this year. the worst possible scenario would be for humanitarian assistance to be cut off by renewed fighting or political obstacles. that would leave 1.2 million people facing starvation. when the delegation visited darfur, all the people we spoke to in the camps told us the same thing: they wished to return to their homes but they were terrified of further attacks. there will be no end to the humanitarian crisis in darfur until people feel safe to return home. that will only happen if there are no more violations of the ceasefire, and if there is a comprehensive political solution to the conflict. i should like to make a plea that in our discussions we do not get too bogged down on issues such as whether this is or is not genocide in darfur. let us concentrate on the actions that this parliament can take to support the african union ceasefire monitors and the peace negotiations. if we fail to be practical in this crisis, then we will let down more than one million sudanese people who are dependent upon us for their survival.
mr president, in darfur genocide has unfolded before our eyes. it demands immediate action. it is the world's largest current humanitarian crisis. it has led to the displacement of 1.4 million people inside sudan, over 200 000 people into neighbouring chad and the number of civilian deaths has risen to almost 50 000. the government in khartoum has armed the militia group, the janjaweed, to attack the non-arab-speaking civilian population and supported them with rocket attacks by helicopter, antonov and mig planes. the bombardment of villagers and systematic rape have terrorised the population and caused a serious humanitarian crisis which will escalate with the arrival of the rainy season. the international community has accepted that genocide is now being committed and this brings into place a whole new series of legislative measures for us, including activating the united nations security council to authorise the jurisdiction of the international criminal court to sudan to arrest and punish the perpetrators of these terrible war crimes, whether or not sudan fails to exercise its sovereign jurisdiction or sign the rome statute. despite humanitarian aid, refugee camps are currently witnessing around 100 000 deaths per month due to dysentery and the atmosphere of insecurity. the crisis could lead to a further genocide. we must show that this is not rwanda, that we now know how to react to this type of crisis in order to save human lives as we demonstrated in congo. every day the situation worsens. for this reason, we must pressurise the sudanese government to honour its commitment made on 3 july to enable the flow of humanitarian aid. khartoum also needs to accept the deployment of international observers from the african union and the european union. the cease-fire agreement should be respected. military aircraft should be grounded in darfur and the disarmament process of the militia speeded up. the un should impose a global arms embargo on sudan. the government, chad, libya and the central african republic should rigidly control the trade in small arms in the region and the african union should establish an international police force. we must finally act to put an end to this situation.
mr president, almost undoubtedly the darfur humanitarian crisis is the worst in the world today, with approximately 1.4 million people displaced, many to camps in chad, and an estimated 50 000 killed, and, according to who estimates, 10 000 dying monthly from disease and violence. the usa is now accusing the khartoum government of genocide by its proxy janjaweed arab militiamen against african local tribes, who rose up in february 2003 against the government. the government is said to be dominated by only two ethnic arab tribes, who have excluded the sudanese africans from power and the sharing of sudan's oil wealth. this a complex dispute, with the justice and equality movement through its 'black book', circulated in khartoum last year, calling for more democracy but from a radical islamist perspective. the hands of dr al-turabi seem to be at work in darfur, settling scores against president bashir, responsible for expelling osama bin laden from sudan in 1996. it must also be said that the rebels have been brutal in their attacks on sudanese government workers, in particular policemen. the un has now promised a review and washington is calling for a un commission of inquiry and for consideration of trade sanctions, including arms and an oil embargo. the eu will probably follow suit. understandably, no one in the eu wants direct military intervention, but only supports the continued presence of african union troops as monitors and possibly as peacekeepers. the un and eu sanctions may be very difficult to enforce in such a vast country as sudan, especially with the recent large investments in the oil sector by china and india, which would be negatively affected. recent reports of the janjaweed, who have razed 405 villages to the ground and continue to wreak havoc, including the systematic raping of women, claim they have been disgracefully integrated into sudan's military. something must be done, as sudan is just emerging from the long civil war in the south. however, with the lessons of iraq in mind, no western power, to my mind, will contemplate military intervention. i call upon the african union to show the world what it can do.
mr president, on behalf of the people of northern ireland, who have known the cruelties of terrorism for more than a generation, i wish to convey my heartfelt sympathy to the parents and people of beslan. the horrendous terror to which they have been subjected is unspeakable. terrorism is wrong wherever it occurs. there is no justification or room for equivocation. be it the ira fire-bombing a packed hotel outside belfast and incinerating a dozen innocent people, al-qa'ida attacking the twin towers, or chechen extremists in beslan butchering innocent children, the strategy is the same – maximum impact through maximum carnage in the hope of extracting maximum political concession. our experience in northern ireland should demonstrate that there is nothing honourable, enlightened or desirable about pandering to terrorism or finding excuses for it – it is evil in all its forms. across europe and the world, it behoves us all to stand resolutely against it and its despicable apologists.
mr president, too often after a terrorist atrocity blame focuses on the authorities concerned. we have heard something of that this morning. since the beslan tragedy we have heard blame being put on the russian authorities, either because of their own actions in chechnya or because of their sheer technical incompetence in terms of handling a terrorist situation. but we should not be distracted from the simple observation that the only people really responsible for terrorism, for the horrors of beslan, are the perpetrators - the terrorists themselves. no cause, whether it is the separation or autonomy of chechnya, no injury, even brutal acts by russian security forces - nothing justifies the mass murder of children and their mothers. sadly, the beslan attack will not be the last. what is to be done? we do not have just a humane interest in the security and stability of russia and her increasingly important southern reaches, but a selfish interest as well. we all want to see security and stability in the caucasus and an end to the spiral of terrorism where we see endemic banditry and distorted nationalisms now fed by islamic extremism. this is a dangerous mixture that threatens us all. the russian authorities should not be too proud to seek assistance, which is needed on several levels. in terms of counter-terrorism that expertise does not rest within the eu as such. i do not entirely dismiss all eu actions in relation to terrorism. closer cooperation between our police and security services is important. controls of terrorist finance need joint efforts, but too much effort is focused on empowering the eu and extending its competence into new areas. i do not share mr bot's enthusiasm for the european arrest warrant, for example. expertise rests in countries such as the united kingdom and spain. certainly, russia should be calling on that sort of expertise. the inability of the russian authorities to deal with the beslan situation reveals many worrying and enduring problems that seem to be deeply embedded in the russian state. if the eu has anything to offer, it should be a single-minded condemnation of terrorism, together with humanitarian and reconstruction assistance. russia has to recognise who her real friends are.
mr president, it is worth reminding ourselves that we use the word 'terrorist' to describe one who seeks to cause terror, and truly do those responsible for the beslan siege define that word - terror, horror, shock. all victims of terrorism are innocent: people on a commuter train, in a theatre, an office block or a nightclub. but children in a school are the most innocent victims of all. the survival of children, like seven-year-old aida sidakova – who we saw on our television screens returning to what we thought was her death – is a symbol of the hope that our human spirit craves in the face of such an unspeakable act of evil. beslan must not be exploited for political ends, whether in the kremlin or here in the european union. i agree that there should be justice, but there should be no recriminations, no reprisals, no revenge, and, as all the institutions of europe affirm in unanimity in this debate, no dilution of respect for human rights. last week i accompanied my own daughter to her first day of school. it was a nerve­wracking experience for both of us. i cannot imagine the ordeal suffered by those children. as parents and fellow human beings, let us mourn those who died and express our absolute solidarity with their families: their suffering is our suffering.
mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to thank commissioner patten for his willingness over the past five years to engage in debate with this house wearing a tie with a very light tinge of blue. i am pleased that he is enjoying the political freedom which my party helped him to find and we wish him every success in his future endeavours. there are many in this chamber and outwith who still focus on a reckoning for responsibility for the war in iraq. whatever form that reckoning might take, liberals and democrats insist that we must not allow it to come between europe and its urgent responsibility to that battered country. when your friend's house is burning down, you do not stop to argue over who dropped the match. with the oppressive brace of dictatorship ripped away, iraq has burst like a broken dam. if we do not control the flood, it threatens to sweep across the region, engulfing iran, syria, saudi arabia and turkey. it will drown the hopes of democracy in the middle east. everything else in iraq depends on stopping the killing. iraq is a vacuum, and in falluja, talafar and baghdad, violence and the unacceptable terror of hostage-taking has rushed in to fill the space emptied by the fall of saddam hussein. yet too often, the coalition forces and the struggling iraqi government have met violence with blundering violence. helicopter gunships and heavy-handed military tactics in crowded urban streets can only feed the resentment and the disorder that recruits for militancy. iraq needs international help: a deep and wide commitment that cannot afford to countenance failure. under the auspices of united nations security council resolution 1546 the international community must offer every assistance to the interim government, and then to its sovereign successor. i welcome the commitment our diplomatic expert, mr bot, has expressed here today. liberals and democrats believe that the european union has experience to offer in everything from restoring iraq's devastated infrastructure to advising on the drafting of its new constitution. that is why we have backed the commission's call for a further eur 200 million to be made available in humanitarian assistance. but iraq needs more than money. if the cycle of violence can be broken, europe can help train policemen, judges and teachers. europe can help rebuild civil society in iraq through support for non-governmental organisations, trade unions and political parties. the european union can play a key role in supporting and securing the elections to the transitional iraqi national assembly in january of next year. in a country where almost every citizen relies on government aid, we can help find the rice and the wheat flour that stand between iraq and starvation, and the soap that guards against devastated public sanitation. we believe that europe must help iraq take steps away from authoritarianism. the new iraq must be built on stable democratic institutions. iraq presents us with a challenge. only stable, democratic government offers the chance to remake the middle east, and that may require our commitment for a generation. (applause)
mr president, the situation in iraq remains precarious, with the deaths yesterday of 47 innocent iraqis at the hands of a fanatic suicide bomber - mainly unemployed men seeking work as policemen and willing to try to re-establish law and order in their country and enable free elections to be held next january. whether one agrees with the justification for the war or not, everyone now must sympathise with the long-suffering iraqi people, who yearn for stability in their country. everyone here must condemn the perpetuation of indiscriminate attacks against the new sovereign government of dr allawi and the multinational peacekeeping forces and the barbaric kidnapping and murdering of hostages, solely on the basis of being non-muslim, or cooperating in rebuilding the country, such as the italian aid workers. clearly, with hindsight, mistakes have been made in underestimating the scale of resistance, but withdrawing all the coalition troops would only worsen matters. mr d'alema's request would, in my view, be surrendering to terrorism. syria and iran have also been extremely unhelpful in allowing islamist fighters to infiltrate iraq from their territories. i welcome commissioner patten's allocation of eur 300 million in 2003-04 to rebuild iraq. his characteristic eloquence will be sadly missed on all sides of this house. i call upon member states who oppose the war - such as france and germany - to put this behind them now and support new nato initiatives to build up security in iraq. after all, we all share a common interest in fighting international terrorism. by kidnapping two french journalists, islamic terrorists have not respected french neutrality, instead blaming france for defending its understandable and much cherished secularism by its banning of the veil in its schools. i pray now for the release of all hostages. no stone should left unturned to achieve this objective.
mr president, the civil war in iraq has inevitably meant that in recent months the media have focused almost exclusively on security. however, behind the headlines there is another agenda already in operation, and that is where the european union should be involved. this is an absolute priority: the building of a peaceful society. capacity–building, the fight against corruption, strengthening the fight against organised crime and bringing in human rights and the rule of law – these words are familiar to us. they are weapons of dialogue that we use every day of the week in turning post–communist states into member states of the european union or wider europe neighbours, away from totalitarianism and tyranny and towards democracy. iraq is in just that condition today. the iraqis are just like us: they share the same desire for freedom and for a settled society. beneath the veil, behind the tribal dress, beyond the cultural differences of east and west, iraq and iraqis have the same high hopes of the essential freedoms and the rule of law that we europeans and americans enjoy. they look to us to help institute those freedoms and the fundamental freedom of human rights. the european union should focus now on building that agenda with iraq. it is a possibility. it is happening now, away from the guns, bombs and rockets, and that is what we should be involved in. i ask you to remember that under saddam hussein iraqis had no such freedoms, no access to human rights. that is the reason why, even now, today, with bombs and rockets, with the difficulties of security, the majority of iraqis prefer to be without the previous regime and in the situation they are in now. we should help iraq build a peaceful society.
in writing. these fisheries deals show the european union in its worst possible light: greedy, exploitative and behaving like a colonial power. over the last five years i have campaigned against this appalling environmental degradation and tried to highlight the human cost to the indigenous black african communities. in 2003 and early 2004 over 100 meps had, at last, begun to listen. now i see that opposition has fallen to 70 or 80. the reason, i am told, is that the deals have been reformed. but i would be very cautious about the word 'reform' in an eu context. invariably it is meaningless. in the case of africa, it means that some aspects of the deal may be slightly less bad. it is the whole principle that is wrong and that is why ukip will continue to oppose these deals until that tragic continent gets its fishing grounds back.
mr president, i would like to intervene on behalf of mr pannella of the italian radicals, who is in italy, to make a point of order regarding the calendar. i am informed that mr pannella was refused the right to amend the calendar by the presidency in the same way that i was two years ago, as it threatened the twelve strasbourg part-sessions, albeit within the letter of the treaties. in parliament's verbatim report it fails to register your statement that 'no amendments were submitted'. in fact, of course, none were permitted. can you ensure that the verbatim report accurately reflects what you actually stated, which is now being taped for verification purposes?
mr president, it is clear that the larger eurozone governments have no intention of tying their hands by promising to adhere to the 3% deficit limit. one would not expect them to. the stability pact is rather like the common fisheries policy: every country has an interest in other countries keeping to the rules but in not being restricted itself. the fisheries policy is not working very well, nor is the stability pact, but – to maintain the pretence – we are now going to have a more flexible pact taking into account economic growth rates and country-specific circumstances. it sounds like a good idea, but in practice all these criteria depend on judgment, as mr almunia has just explained. all it will mean in the end is that a country having trouble sticking to the rules of the pact does not have to. a flexible rule ceases to be a rule. the root of the problem is that there is no credible means of enforcement; there never has been. it was always ridiculous to suppose that a government having trouble paying its bills could be punished by imposing a fine; yet, as the european central bank points out, sound fiscal policies are vital for the euro. there are many examples of what happens to fixed exchange rate regimes when governments do not keep their budgets in order. an emu is just a sophisticated form of a fixed exchange rate. argentina is the most recent case of such a collapse. the problem could of course be solved by much greater control of national budgets, but that does not seem very feasible right now. certainly we in britain would not like to see brussels running our treasury. let me end on a positive note. i can only say how thankful i am that britain has not joined the euro ...(cheers from the ind/dem group)... and as the weakness of the stability pact becomes more obvious, the chances of us ever joining are becoming more and more remote. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i am well aware that i represent a nation that is not a member of the european monetary union and i represent a party which is opposed to future membership of the euro. i am not going to apologise for that because i believe the british economy is better off outside the eurozone, and our significantly higher growth rate compared to the average eurozone country bears this out. however, as my party leader, michael howard, noted in a recent speech in berlin, we believe that different combinations of member states should have the possibility of pooling their responsibilities in different areas of their own choosing. thus we wish our colleagues in the eurozone well. i am all for the principle that governments should avoid excessive budget deficits, especially when an economy is growing strongly and unemployment is low. it should have been simple for us to have kept our spending within the limits required of members of the european union, since all of us - not just members of the euro - are supposed to abide by these guidelines. when britain exceeded the 3% budget deficit ceiling, it escaped the censure of the commission because it is not in the eurozone. the people of other european nations were not so lucky: the dutch and the portuguese have had to rein in their public spending in a tight effort to comply with the pact at a time when they have been hit by recession. however, far from being congratulated they were kicked in the teeth by the governments of france and germany using their muscle to bend the rules and escape the fines which, if imposed, might have given them the incentive to be the team players that they sometimes urge us to be. it is difficult to overstate the damage this has caused. the euro is an ambitious project. all such projects require the injection of a vast amount of political capital. strong currencies require credible leadership, which is lacking in this case. ever since the euro was introduced, the very authors of the rules are the least prepared to abide by them. the new guidelines announced last week pay lip-service to the need for clear and effective rules. they are in essence a surrender to political might. many have suggested that the eventual success of the euro will be measured in the long run by whether britain, sweden and denmark decide to join. i am not going to look into the crystal ball, but i have to say that the most recent moves by the guardians of the currency have done nothing to encourage those of us who are cautious and wary to sign up.
mr president, 25 member states are about to sign and then embark on their ratification procedures. these procedures are national. they are matters for national and internal debate. does that mean that there is no legitimate interest in members from other countries participating in those national debates? with all due caution, it is legitimate to draw attention within each member state to the fact that their national decision on ratification has implications for everyone else in europe as well. it is not insignificant that 25 elected governments of our member states have all come to the conclusion that this new constitution is the best way forward for the european union. it will not be insignificant either if our parliament endorses that constitution in december by an overwhelming majority. it is right to draw this to the attention of people. it is right to try and europeanise the debate in that way. some have suggested having national referendums all on the same day. that we know is virtually impossible, but some member states may wish to coordinate their referendums within a certain time period. that is up to them. it would make the debate more european. but the most important thing we can do is coordinate our information work. i welcome the fact that the council is meeting to discuss that. it is necessary if only to avoid contradictions, with the commission saying one thing, the council saying another, the parliament saying something else. we must focus on getting the facts across because the facts speak for themselves. this debate is myth against reality. all we need to do is provide factual information and i am confident we will win the battle of ratification.
mr president, to some extent i feel that the wonderful camel of the constitution has now approached the eye of the needle. it can, of course, be squeezed through, but it can only be squeezed through if all members of the european council accept that they have a collective and individual responsibility to campaign for it to be brought into force. for several national leaders, this means that they will be obliged, for the first time, to campaign on european questions. coordination of the plot, getting the story right, seems to me to be extremely important. secondly, the european council must avoid a scramble to be at the end of the list – la fuite en avant. there should be a cluster approach to ratification with the keener, more assured integrationists going first, rather than forming a nervous queue. public opinion will query why our national leaders are frightened of their own shadow on europe and fearful of putting the argument for the constitution in a positive and trenchant way that embraces the european dimension. this is a chance for our leadership to grow the european polity. to the commission i would say that public relations exercises are all fine. one should ask why the commission, at this sensitive moment, has seen fit to cut the budget in half, but what we really need is a political commission, a campaigning commission that will complement the role of the european council to bring real leadership to the european citizen.
i too am a dissenting member of the committee on constitutional affairs on the constitution. i oppose the constitution because i dare still to cling to a belief in maximising meaningful national sovereignty. could i, in that context, ask the council and the commission to agree that the first priority in any referendum should be that it should be seen to be both free and fair? in this regard, is it not imperative to guarantee two things: first, to guarantee that the case against the constitution is not suppressed in a welter of one-sided propaganda emanating from the european institutions and, secondly, that the democratic referendum process is not distorted by unbalanced funding from external sources? therefore, could the council and the commission agree that they would resolutely resist the temptation of bankrolling a pro-constitution propaganda offensive across europe? these are national referendums and they should be allowed to be so.
i need advice. mr president, your predecessor was kind enough to point out that the council has the right to speak longer. i do not consider it a right but rather an obligation to be able to react to some of the very important comments. i cannot guarantee that we will be able to do it in five minutes, but i can remind you that i have a few minutes left, mr president. i agree with your order, mr president, that is clear. i think that some of your members have made very substantial remarks about whose responsibility it is to bring these ratification processes to a successful conclusion. mr corbett, mr vigo, mr stubb and many others have said that there is of course a shared responsibility for the success of the process after 29 october, after the signing for ratification.
i need advice. i agree with your order, mr president, that is clear. i think that some of your members have made very substantial remarks about whose responsibility it is to bring these ratification processes to a successful conclusion. mr corbett, mr mendez de vigo, mr stubb and many others have said that there is of course a shared responsibility for the success of the process after 29 october, after the signing for ratification. if only because we're all dependent on each other. we all depend on the success of all 25 ratification processes to bring this treaty into force. wherever we can - and i say this emphatically on behalf of the council, and we will do so in the council - wherever we can we must support and strengthen each other and learn from each other. it would be a pity if mr voggenhuber were to make critical remarks about this, if we were to shift the blame and responsibility on to each other, because i also think it is important and valuable, as many have said here, that the three institutions have a responsibility in this. i believe that the commission has played a very active and constructive, positive role in communicating europe and informing the citizens about the treaty, and that it would be wrong to leave the ball there, because i think that the member states and the parliamentarians also have a very great responsibility here. a point which many of you have mentioned, mr president, is the question of coordination in the time of the various referendums. many fine words have been said about how good it would be to have this referendum held there in a shorter period of time, at a symbolic moment. i hope you agree that we can appreciate that, but you will not go into that, because these are now constitutional legislative matters par excellence which remain national matters. i do not think that the european parliament would want to go into that, either, when it comes to subsidiarity and what level of government it should be about. what is very important is that national consideration is given to when and how coordination can be achieved, and that is exactly what we are doing in the council and in the council secretariat. let us show what national planning is so that governments can take national planning into account, parliaments can take national planning into account, to see if there are things to organize in each other's neighbourhoods. this has nothing to do, i say in response to a number of comments, with whether you believe more or less in a european approach to this matter. it has to do with constitutional law matters and it also has to do with the very sensitivities that many of you have mentioned that referendums can become a national plaything. many members have raised this question. the council is therefore convinced that it is right to give national parliaments and national governments some latitude in choosing a reasonable time for such a referendum. it could be about all sorts of things, about other elections that are going on in that particular country, about other things that are going on in that particular country. i think that the ratification by 25 countries has served to look at each other, but at the same time these national responsibilities must be upheld. speaking of referenda, mr president, following the comments made by mrs kaufmann and mr schlyter, i would point out that at present 9 member states have decided to hold a referendum, 11 have decided not to hold a referendum and in 5 countries a referendum is still under discussion. the most important thing is how we proceed, how the various institutions proceed, how the various governments proceed in these ratification procedures, how we proceed with the debate with public opinion, how we proceed with the referenda in the countries where referenda are held. i think that mr méndez de vigo said very clearly, to begin with, that we must be in favour of this and i also regarded that as an appeal to the member states, to the governments. we as governments, we as the council, are signing that convention, are in favour of that convention, are in favour of that convention. we are not neutral in relation to that treaty. we believe it is important that this convention be adopted and ratified. and it's important because anyone who looks at this treaty will see that no matter how you twist it, europe is becoming much more democratic with the new treaty. just look at the enormous expansion of the responsibilities of the european parliament, a fully fledged european parliament at last. look at the effectiveness which will increase with the new treaty, with majority decision-making again. look at the transparency, the clarity that will increase with this treaty. even, mr president, and i think that is a very important point when i listen to all your comments, even the eurosceptics have been served by this treaty, i am convinced. - why ? - why ? because it is precisely this subsidiarity, the question of who matters what, that is being regulated here very precisely and well, so that europe is becoming more democratic not only at european level but also at national level, because national parliaments can also point the finger and argue that something that could be better regulated at national level is not a matter for europe. i think there is no contradiction - some of you have mentioned that - between the problem of whether we should focus all our attention on the pro or whether we should also give room to the anti or how we deal with - as the question was asked about giving factual information versus prior information. i think that mr crowley is right, among other things, that it is not mutually exclusive. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. fact-based information is a way to combat the myths, the lies as it was called here. we can show with factual information why this treaty is a step forward for everyone in europe. finally, mr president, i should like to make a comment on the meeting with the european affairs ministers in amsterdam on 5 october, which will focus on communicating europe and also on ratification and referenda, as far as they are concerned. i am very pleased with the words of mr barrot on this. it is also very welcome that mr vitorino will be present at that meeting and it is very good that he has indicated that what we discuss there should have consequences for the commission's future plans and then of course also for the decision-making in the european council on 5 november. i am also very pleased, mr president, that your president of the european parliament, mr borrell-fontelles, has already promised to be present at this meeting, because, as i said before, we cannot complete this without the three institutions. this meeting should be a meeting about communicating europe, but also about showing how to communicate about europe. there will be no written statements, the media will be directly present at this meeting and i hope we can show that europe benefits from debate and what helps in that, mr president, is the fact that your previous president, mr pat cox, has been willing to act as moderator at this meeting. the starting point for this meeting and, no doubt, for the whole procedure for ratifying this convention will be that the people are being served and that we are taking the people seriously.
commission mr president, i wanted to be brief, but i do not want my brevity to give rise to misunderstandings. i would like to say to the first distinguished speaker, mr méndez de vigo, that there is obviously no ambiguity. firstly, the commission is fully committed to this draft constitution, and i can testify that michel barnier, and then mr vitorino, whom i assisted in the last moments of the council, really did everything to arrive at this constitution which will mark a very important step towards the democratization of our union and towards a whole series of progress of which co-decision, or rather the extension of co-decision with parliament, is a major element. so there is a clear commitment on the part of the commission to this draft constitution, and there is no question of the commission losing interest in the consultation that will follow and in the consultations that will take place in the member states. i simply tried to explain that the commission had already prepared documents which i believe have the merit of being both very objective and of presenting both the current situation and the situation after the ratification of the draft constitution. all too often, the debate on the future of the union is a bit confusing and it is not always easy to distinguish between what is now and what will be tomorrow. so we wanted to give tools that are practical, clear, operational tools, but we can certainly still perfect them. i have been reporting on the commission's activities in this area. on the question of funding, i would like to make it clear. we did not enter 1.5 million in the preliminary draft budget for 2005 in order to reduce the number of actions, but because at the time of drawing up the preliminary draft budget we were still too uncertain about the outcome of the dossier. we have announced our intention of reviewing the situation with you during the budgetary procedure. the situation is now clearer and we are prepared to act on the basis of the amount of appropriations that parliament and mr nicolaï for the council will consider necessary to devote to this effort. there are no restrictions on the part of the commission in this respect. the question is how to use the money once the effort has been made. so, on this side, no misunderstandings. there is no misunderstanding in what i have indicated either. we believe that the commission cannot imagine an information campaign on its own. i would also like to thank mr leinen again and stress our agreement on, in particular, paragraph 6 of the motion for a resolution, which says that the council, the commission and parliament must prepare an appropriate campaign and communication strategy requiring a joint effort by all parties present. i have stressed the need for a fairly confident and effective partnership with the member states, but this is not, of course, to allow campaigns in certain member states which are not coordinated and harmonized with those of other member states. we simply have to take account, mr president, as mr nicolaï has just explained, of a number of national aspects to be sure that our information campaign will be as effective as it needs to be. we are therefore concerned about efficiency and this should not be seen as a sign of any lack of interest on the part of the commission in the joint effort to win the battle for the right information for the citizens. so everyone has to take their share of responsibility. the commission, mr president, will take its full responsibility. mr. vitorino would be here, he'd say it with force. as the minister has just said, mr vitorino will be in amsterdam, and we hope that the meeting on 5 october will be a successful one, not only to guide our joint information campaign - objective information, i repeat - to all european citizens, but also perhaps to coordinate a number of consultations, as many of you have rightly wished. it is in our interest that this nascent european citizenship should be felt through the arrangements for consultations in the various member states and their coordination. i would like to conclude with a wish, mr president: that this amsterdam meeting may shed as much light as possible on an effective partnership between parliament, the council and the commission to win the information battle, and i would add objectivity and truth because i have confidence in europe and i am convinced that true information will be of a nature to encourage a very broad adherence of european citizens.
council. - mr president, as already stated in reply to a number of questions from the european parliament, the council reiterates that the protection of the rights and interests of nationals of the member states abroad who are covered by the vienna convention on consular relations is the individual responsibility of the member state concerned. member states whose nationals are detained at guantanamo bay or elsewhere shall take such measures as they deem necessary to ensure that the rights of their nationals are respected in their bilateral relations with the united states. the council cannot give details of these measures. questions on this subject, mr president, should be addressed to the member states concerned. i would like to say in general, in reply to this question, that the eu has always expressed concern about the situation at guantanamo bay and has indicated on several occasions and at several levels in its contacts with the united states that the treatment of prisoners must be in accordance with the standards of the geneva convention and human rights. in july, mr president, official talks took place between the european union and the united states, during which the united states explained the creation of so-called combatant status review tribunals, following the recent decisions of the us supreme court. the european union representatives conveyed the concerns which remain on the european side, including those concerning the creation of a new category of prisoners, the so-called enemy combatants. finally, mr president, the dutch presidency will continue to draw attention in its contacts with the united states to the concerns that exist regarding the status and treatment of the prisoners at guantanamo bay.
i thank the presidency of the council for that reply, but i am bound to say that i find it, yet again, disappointing. the european union is supposed to have a human rights policy under articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty. we have the charter of fundamental rights and we are constructing an area of freedom, security and justice. we insert human rights clauses in external agreements. indeed, i heard the president of the council say this morning that in future we will have anti-terrorism clauses in those agreements. yet when dealing with our most powerful and important international partner, the european union has not reached a common position or made - as i understand it - any formal démarche to the united states. today a lawyer for some of the remaining british detainees has described the stance of the uk government as craven. how would the minister describe the european union stance overall, when some of our citizens and residents are still under illegal detention, being abused and even tortured and denied either release or a fair trial? why is the european union, as such, not making formal representations?
i need advice. i am afraid, mr president, that i cannot on behalf of the council take away the disappointment of mrs ludford, but i do hope that i have made my concerns clear and that i have indicated that we will take responsibility where we can and take the steps as i said in my first term.
i need advice. mr president, the council is not aware of any member state having the practice of caging as described in this question. having said that, the council recalls its full commitment to respect for human rights and to combating all forms of discrimination, in particular on grounds of age or disability. the council also recalls that all the member states, including the czech republic, have signed the european convention on human rights, which, as you know, contains provisions in article 3 to combat cruel or inhuman treatment, and that they have also ratified the convention on the rights of the child and the convention against torture. the convention on the rights of the child contains specific provisions on discrimination on the grounds of disability - article 2 - and on the mentally or physically disabled child - article 23. the council will in any case continue to work for respect for human rights and the elimination of all forms of discrimination.
i am somewhat surprised by the council's response, as i think we should be aware of the issue of caged beds. not only is it cruel, unjust and undignified, but it causes the children concerned anger, aggression and depression. the use of caged beds breaks international law: it is contrary to the united nations convention on the rights of the child and is condemned by amnesty international and human rights watch. i have a number of supplementary questions. how will the council monitor the situation? what pressure can the council bring to bear to end this outrageous use of caged beds? they exist not only in the czech republic but also in slovakia, slovenia and hungary. what support can be given to the various countries to ensure that a ban is properly implemented? and finally, what is the council proposing to do in terms of the enlargement negotiations with romania, where i believe this is also a problem? i would welcome your response, mr nicolaï. i urge you to take this issue very seriously.
mr president, just because abortion in portugal is illegal in most cases, it does not mean that it is not needed there. women in portugal need help and advice on abortion, sexual health and reproductive rights. i would remind this house that in most member states abortion is legal. i would also draw your attention to the van lancker report, which has already been mentioned. here we are talking about abortion, which is accepted throughout most member states of the european union and has been accepted by this house. we need to be very clear on this. we also need to be very clear that illegal, unsafe abortions present not only danger to the women concerned, but danger of death. we have already heard from mrs madeira about the fatalities which take place in portugal itself and i would like to remind all of you that every six minutes across the world one woman dies from an illegal, unsafe abortion. i put it to all of you that we have a duty to deal with this and put an end to this suffering and this toll of death. it is also important to recognise that 'women on waves' is only called into countries when women's organisations in those countries concerned actually request it. we are not talking here about something being forced on people, we are talking about something being requested because there is a clear need and demand for it. we also need to be aware of the position on the free movement of people within the european union, which is one of our fundamental principles. i would like to end by quoting from the treaty on european union: 'to maintain and develop the union as an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured in conjunction with appropriate measures with respect to external border controls, asylum, immigration and the prevention and combating of crime'. this is what we are about. we are about basic human rights, and this is one of them. (applause)
mr president, i find it somewhat ironic that all of the men who have spoken on the other side of this house have had the temerity to tell women what they should do with their bodies. i am proud to stand here and defend a woman's right to choose. that is fundamentally what this is about. it is about choice. it is about informed choice. i find it sad that there are people in this house who want to imprison citizens and women, in ignorance. this is about a fundamental freedom, with the focus on abortion, a highly emotive subject. it is easy for you to try and divert this debate, but it must not be diverted. it is about fundamental freedoms: freedom of information; freedom of movement; freedom of expression; and it is about intolerance. that is why i am proud to stand here and say that if we allow this to happen in portugal, what happens when there is another government that has another view about opinions that are different from their own? what happens then? if we stand here and do nothing, we condone these undemocratic attitudes. i have heard religion mentioned. i am very sad. i see the fingers of the vatican all over this. women need no lectures from men in frocks, telling them what they should do with their bodies. (applause from the left)please keep your religion out of our lives and please keep it out of politics. if we could separate politics and religion, i tell you now that the world would be a safer and better place in which to live. (applause from the left)i condemn the actions of the portuguese government and i urge this house to do likewise. this issue goes to the heart of europe. ours is a europe based not on suppression of information or repression, but on fundamental freedoms and human rights. the actions of the portuguese government must not and will not go unchallenged. finally, as i said previously, this is about informed choice as opposed to enforced ignorance. therefore i call on the commission to act in its capacity as guardian of the treaties and the fundamental rights enshrined in those treaties. (applause from the left)
mr president, as this will probably be the last time that i will speak in a debate on the environment to which mrs wallström will respond, i should like to thank her for her commitment and efforts over the past five years. i am glad she is not going to be leaving us. faced with the enormity of problems concerning the environment, she once said that we cannot cry about everything all the time. that is very true, but, when we consider how we are diminishing life on this planet, it is certainly worth at least some tears. virtually no animal on this planet can exist without the agreement of humans. we are the dominant species. if animals are to survive, they do so because we allow them to do so, because there is no economic incentive to kill them or because we actively want them to survive. in nearly all cases, habitats have to be managed and somehow protected. this is how mankind now manages the natural order. the pity is that we are terrible managers. we cannot see beyond the present: we think everything is still there for the taking and need not consider the consequences. we preside over one of the world's great periods of extinction. within a generation we have wiped out a vast proportion of the animals of africa and now we are doing the same to the seas. shark numbers in many cases are said to have dropped by 90% since spielberg's film 'jaws' was released. the great white shark is the ocean's top predator, the lion of the seas. to lose a creature that has changed very little in tens of millions of years would not only be a tragedy but would further change the ecology of the waters, upsetting a balance already damaged by over-fishing and certainly entailing damaging consequences. trade in its parts must be curtailed. however, the issue of land animals in africa highlights the complexities involved in securing solutions. we know there has been a huge loss in elephant numbers, much of which is attributable to poaching. however, curtailing the ivory trade seems to have been successful in preventing a complete wipe-out. yet the picture is mixed: elephant numbers are recovering in some areas, but this causes the destruction of the natural habitat. as the government of botswana pointed out in a very well argued paper, numbers have to be managed if the competing demands of people, vegetation and habitats are to be met. in principle, i have no objection to increasing the trade in ivory selectively, provided that the money raised is for conservation purposes. for the same reasons i have no objection in principle to trophy hunting, although i cannot understand the mentality of rich people who want to kill great creatures. my concern is that the money will not be spent in this way and that the increase in the ivory trade will stimulate poaching everywhere, with catastrophic results. i hope member states will stand firm and support a total ban, but they should also be realistic and accommodating. if we in europe want to deny poor nations the right to sell harvested ivory legitimately and sustainably, should we not be contributing financially to meet our desires and their needs?
mr president, i would like to say to the commission and parliament that i fully support what cites is doing. however, i question why the cites conference is to be held in bangkok. in thailand there is still a lot of illegal trading in orangutans, monkeys and leopards. so if the conference is to be held there, we need to question the thai government about this problem. i have seen examples of 50 illegally-imported young orangutans found hidden in cramped cages in private thai zoos. in my constituency there is an organisation called monkey world ape rescue centre which wants to get a particular chimpanzee called naree out of thailand, but the thai government has not been helpful in this regard. if the conference is held in thailand, it is very important for both this parliament and the commission to raise these issues with the thai government. we cannot allow this to happen. we have to highlight it. this is an opportunity to do so. while i welcome cites and everything it is trying to do, the fact that the conference is to be held in thailand will give us an opportunity to raise these issues with the thai government, so as to help stop such things happening. otherwise this trade might seem to be acceptable because the cites conference is being held there.
in writing. british conservatives recognise that climate change is one of the greatest challenges to be faced by our generation and those that will follow us. whilst we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which temperatures will rise, we can be certain that the risk of abrupt climate change exists. if we are serious about tackling man-made climate change then we must be serious about reducing global aviation emissions, which are expected to double by 2020. that is why we support action to include aviation in a global emissions trading scheme. if the global authorities will not act, then the eu must be free to introduce its own scheme. we have severe reservations as to the effectiveness of fuel and emissions taxes. these would have a negligible effect on demand for most air travel, but would have a disproportionate effect on the budget airline sector. it is unlikely that the proceeds of such taxes would be used to mitigate the effect of the emissions, leaving such schemes as nothing more than revenue-raising exercises. nor do we believe that the commission needs a seat on the icao assembly.
in writing. i totally support the european parliament in condemning in the strongest terms the abductions of hostages in iraq and in demanding their immediate release. i support paragraphs 2 and 3 of the resolution to this effect. however, i cannot vote for this joint resolution as a whole as it seeks to justify the illegal and unjust war and the occupation of iraq.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party welcomes this resolution, in particular its emphasis on maximising the european union's involvement and in seeking the unconditional, safe return of french, italian and other hostages. we accept the gravity of the security situation in iraq but believe it unhelpful to use the wording 'a majority of the iraqi population' in amendment 1. a transfer of coalition troops or, indeed, a complete withdrawal is unrealistic and risks worsening an already bad situation. whilst we accept that the house is divided on the legal questions, we appeal for unity in looking forward, not back, working together for peace, reconciliation and reconstruction in a democratic iraq.
mr president, i just wanted to ask whether we were going to benefit from the presence of the presidency of the council this afternoon, because the remarks that i want to make – and which i am sure many of my colleagues will be making – are in fact directed at the council. it is a great shame that the council is not here. could you answer that before i make my other remarks? (applause)
mr president, this is the fourth resolution that i have tabled on burma in the last 18 months, but the situation continues to deteriorate and the council's reaction is pusillanimous. the burmese military dictatorship is now in its 43rd year of illegitimate rule. it is 15 years since aung san suu kyi was first put under house arrest and 14 years since the spdc decided to disregard the will of the burmese people as expressed in the 1990 elections. in spite of this, the council's message that is now being sent to the burmese dictatorship is that it is an acceptable and welcome member of the international community, irrespective of its oppressive activities. in 1997 burma's entry into asean was heralded as a means to exert pressure on the regime. all we have heard from asean is mild rebuke. the burmese dictatorship ignored this and nothing more has happened. six years after burma joined asean, oppression in the country has intensified and any return to democratic rule remains a distant prospect. this october asean intends to include burma at the asem v summit in hanoi. i am the first to understand that europe's relationship with asean is widely based and most important. it should not be hostage to burma, but that is what the asean states are allowing to happen. the asian governments must realise that they may be sacrificing a rewarding partnership with the european union for the sake of a morally bankrupt regime in burma. we must demand burma's exclusion from asem until it complies with the demands of the international community. i am sorry to say that there are some similarities with the situation concerning zimbabwe. there again we have an atrocious regime, which in many respects is even more abusive to its people than the burma dictatorship. there again we have had half-hearted sanctions by the eu going through the motions of taking action, but in effect allowing the regime off the hook because of the self-interested agenda of one or two of our member states. there again neighbouring states have the key to change, but for their own misguided reasons refused to turn it. the eu does not put pressure on them. we need the asean states to insist on the immediate release of aung san suu kyi and on freedom for the nld opposition. the eu foreign ministers must demand that they do this before burma is allowed to sit down with them in hanoi.
mr president, i consider it an affront to democracy and humanity that burma will be represented at the asem meeting in hanoi in october. as the previous speaker, mr schmidt, has said, the three necessary conditions for burma's attendance at the meeting have not been met: the release of aung san suu kyi and other national league for democracy leaders, their freedom to participate freely in the national convention, and the modification of procedure of the national convention. meanwhile, according to amnesty international, there have been thousands of reported cases of rape being used as a political weapon to subdue ethnic minorities. as recently as last week, it was reported that the women's league of burma maintains that such rape is prevalent in many areas and that victims are frequently under the age of 18 and even under the age of 12 in at least one case. it is well known that the burmese military is also believed to have a higher percentage of child soldiers than any other military in the world. i strongly oppose burma's participation in the forthcoming meeting and i hope that the invitation to burma will be withdrawn until democracy is restored and aung san suu kyi set free.
mr president, why are we talking about the maldives today? we are talking about the maldives because we have ignored it for 23 years. we have let it be. we have not looked at the living conditions or quality of life of the people in that country. they have been living under a dictatorship. there have been no elections. the president runs the country as his private property. though it is classified under the gnp criteria as having a living standard in excess of $3 000 per capita, 50% of the people live for less than a dollar a day. but if you were to go there, mr president, you would have to pay $300 a night to stay in one of those rooms! where does the money go? who collects it and where is it banked? certainly not for the benefit of the people of the maldives. moreover, recently, on 16 august, 200 people were detained without charge or arrest. eight mps were detained, mps who had been tasked with drafting constitutional amendments for increased representation in parliament, including a former candidate for the role of speaker, former secretary-general of saarc mr ibrahim zaki, who has been nominated by some of us for the sakharov prize. others have been held in prison without charge. habeas corpus has been suspended and human rights have been abused. if the government of the maldives wants to engage with the european union, it should first restore the fundamental rights of those people it has imprisoned. then we can talk. we do not want to hurt a small archipelago of 1 200 islands. we want to help them. the only way to help them is to ensure that european travellers visiting the maldives also have access to fair travel so that they do not feel compelled to live in a country which is abusing its own citizens. (applause)
mr president, i should like to echo other speakers in saying that the maldives is not the paradise it appears, and tourists must be made aware of that fact. i should also like to join with colleagues in expressing my deep concern about the mass detentions that took place in august, including that of fathimath nisreen, a 23-year-old woman who was originally arrested without warrant in february 2002. later, while under house arrest, she joined the demonstration and was arrested again. i call on the president of the maldives to make sure that she, along with the rest of the detainees, is treated humanely and not subjected to torture. i gather that some of the detainees have been tortured, although we do not have the precise details. the detainees should also have immediate access to their families and to lawyers of their choice - and i specify 'of their choice' - along with medical attention for those who need it. again, i gather that there are some detainees who are in desperate need of such attention. i am concerned because they appear to have been detained solely because of the peaceful exercise of their right to freedom of speech and assembly, and for no other reason. i call on the authorities to release those detainees immediately, unless they are charged with a recognisable criminal offence. (applause)
mr president, you would be hard pressed to discover from the commission website that there was a problem in the maldives. it says that the political situation in the maldives has remained remarkably stable over the past two decades, providing a conducive environment for development. i suppose you could call 26 years of unbroken dictatorship stability of a sort, but it is hardly conducive to development. the country strategy paper states that political developments have progressed over the past two decades, with enhanced democratic practices and increased respect for human rights; but this judgment is unbelievable since the paper subsequently notes problems of arbitrary arrest, incommunicado detention, lack of an independent judiciary and restrictions on free speech, protest and freedom of religion. it is incredible that the commission can, in these circumstances, record president gayoom's commitment to democratisation. the maldives ambassador was on the phone to me this morning. he advised me that the troublesome elements were islamic fundamentalists. that is not my information. however, the more the legitimate opposition, such as the maldivian democratic party, and fundamental rights are suppressed, the more people will be driven into the arms of extremists. (applause)
mr president, i wish to thank you personally for your efforts and assistance in trying to secure the release of my constituent from liverpool, ken bigley, who was taken hostage in iraq. on friday we received the very tragic news that he had been executed. i should be grateful, mr president, if you would send our sympathy and condolences to his family on behalf of the members of this parliament. this request is also being made on behalf of the other members of the european parliamentary labour party. (applause)
mr president, the uk environment agency has revealed that in five months of this year 12 million cubic metres of raw sewage were discharged into the river thames flowing through london. this situation can only worsen with an increase in the violent storms caused by global warming. these discharges have not only killed thousands of fish but also resulted in dangerous levels of e. coli and other harmful bacteria. this is a european issue because such readings are far above eu bathing water limits and, incidentally, also a cross-border issue since thames water is german owned. the british government refuses to provide the gbp 1.5m needed to build an interceptor tunnel to stop these overflows. as my colleague on the london assembly has said, these figures are an absolute disgrace. this situation is bad for the environment, prejudicial to human health and damaging to the image of the thames. i would ask colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to pursue this breach of eu law by the british government and request that the commission investigate it.
mr president, i would like to remind the house that next week, from 17 to 24 october, is one world week. this is an opportunity for us all to take action and to do something about poverty and injustice in the world. one practical way in which we can help is by buying fair trade products. parliament has started to buy fair trade products. in strasbourg we now receive fair trade tea, though in brussels we still get liptons tea. perhaps the quaestors could take up this issue of why we are getting fair trade tea in one case but not in another, and consider what more we can do in this house with regard to buying fair trade produce. it would set a good example to other public administrations. i hope that you will support this initiative.
mr president, mr prodi, five years and one month ago you addressed this house as president-designate of an untested commission. you told us that you wanted to put europe at the service of the people of europe. liberals and democrats backed you then, and five exhausting years later, we back you now. liberals and democrats believe that in the long view of the prodi commission certain things will stand out. your commission launched the lisbon agenda and inaugurated the euro. your commission began the work of internal reform. it was the steward of europe's enlargement from 15 to 25 states. your commission moved europe into the world of common european security against terror. you inherited a commission badly scarred by scandal. you promised this house that you would put the commission's house in order. that work is not finished, but it has been courageously championed by commissioner kinnock and you leave behind you a commission in which reform has a firm foothold. as part of that process you have worked to make the commission's relationship with this house open, productive and respectful. your successor will do well to do the same. your commission inherited a europe searching for the road to economic reform. it leaves behind a europe which found that road at lisbon, however hesitantly we have stepped down it. in the service of the lisbon agenda your commission has been an engine of intelligent, inventive, reformist single market legislation. liberals and democrats recognise and honour the exceptional personal stamp that commissioner bolkestein has placed on that work. in particular, the launch of the euro – the single largest logistical operation in europe in 60 years – was a practical and political triumph. liberals and democrats believe that we have not gone far enough on the road to economic reform or achieved what we could have. but if europe is unlikely to achieve the lisbon goals, the fault lies not with a commission that failed to set the rules, but with member states that too often failed to keep them. the lisbon agenda has too often been subordinated to the paris agenda or the berlin agenda or the london agenda. your commission inherited the battered but hopeful europe of 1989, still divided by a line from trieste to gdansk. today that line is gone, wiped away by an historic enlargement that this commission has every right to take credit for. we recognise your work, and the work of commissioner verheugen and the work of the hundreds of dedicated commission staff who made the climb. mr prodi, in my country politicians most often get into trouble in their brushes with the other sex! i can think of two in your case: penelope and marta. you quickly dropped the first, and i am delighted to see today that you have finally ditched the second. it is the conviction of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe that the prodi commission has honoured the commitments it made to this house five years ago. some will use today the tired claim that you have been more interested in italian politics than the stewardship of the european commission. but how can one review the achievements of this commission and then insist that you had only one foot in brussels. it was said of the emperor augustus of rome – another italian with a european destiny – that he inherited a city of brick and left behind a city of marble. liberals and democrats believe that handed a city of brick, your commission leaves behind a bigger, better, wiser europe. i can sum it all up in one italian word, mr prodi: bravo! (applause)
mr president, your commission is rightly proud of its role in the enlargement of the european union. the european free alliance parties welcome our new neighbours and look forward to the day when our own countries - scotland, wales and catalonia for example - can take their place at the top table as independent member states. five years ago, mr prodi, you spoke at some length about the need for the european union to reconnect with its citizens. until five years ago opinion polls showed there to be higher levels of public support for the eu in scotland than in other parts of the uk. however, that support differential has now been eroded. one of the principal reasons for that is a policy that has been one of the european union’s biggest failures - the common fisheries policy. your commission had the task of reforming the cfp. you had an opportunity to give hope to scotland’s fishing communities, but instead you gave despair. you could have taken up proposals from this parliament to establish meaningful, devolved, regional management of fisheries, but instead you promoted toothless advisory councils. the blame cannot be laid solely on the european commission, as successive uk governments have repeatedly sacrificed scotland’s interests, but the final straw for my party - a pro-european party - was the illogical decision taken this year to include the cfp as one of only a handful of exclusive competences in the draft constitution. with that clause remaining, we will be voting against the constitution in any referendum. the commission's end-of-term report, fisheries section, must therefore read 'failed'!
mr president, i wish to begin with some congratulatory remarks. one of your key aims was successful enlargement of the european union. in may this year the eu welcomed ten new member states in the largest expansion since its creation. this was a historic moment in the post-cold war history of our continent and it is only right to acknowledge your role in attaining this political milestone. i also wish to say that the commission has developed some, at least, of the more liberal economic strategies that your successor has now pledged to advance. the lisbon strategy was embarked upon under your watch but, sadly, too little progress has been made and mr cox’s report to the council in november will probably reveal this. however, the positive remarks about the commission end there. for the past five years the commission has become fatally addicted to constitutional change. when you spoke to parliament in 2000, setting out your priorities as president, you said: ‘europe’s citizens are disenchanted and anxious. they have lost faith in the european institutions’. i am afraid that the intervening period has brought us the constitutional convention, the igc and what may eventually be an eu constitution. it is clear from the turnout in this year’s european elections that this process has failed to inspire. indeed, it has reinforced the perception across europe that institutions like the commission are too self-serving. in that 2000 speech you also said that a simple benchmark of whether the eu had delivered would be a higher turnout in the 2004 european parliamentary elections. one of the key reasons for your goal not being reached has been this obsession with constitutional change, which means very little to our constituents. at the same time - and it saddens me to say this, particularly as vice-president kinnock is sitting alongside you in the chamber - too little progress has been made on the reform of the commission. i regret to say that all this was inevitable, because over the past 12 months the commission has been rudderless. i make no apology for saying that this is in large measure due to your decision to spend a significant amount of your time attacking mr berlusconi, the italian prime minister, and constructing alliances to challenge him. these activities have undermined the impartiality of the office of the president of the commission and have ensured that the commission has come to be seen as something of a lame duck. all presidents are entitled to their political opinions, but i regret to say that your political interventions have been … (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate you for having presided over a commission that has contributed so much to the political unification of europe. under your presidency the old question of whether europe can 'widen' and 'deepen' at the same time, which is one that plagued most of your predecessors, has been answered decisively and positively. i wonder, on the basis of your five years' experience at the head of the executive, what your top tip would be for your successor as regards the conduct of relations with this parliament? i should like to end by wishing you personal success. there has only been one former president of the commission who succeeded in carrying on a political career after retiring from the commission. that was roy jenkins, who showed the british that europe is so important to their national life that radical political change also had to take place inside his own country. buona fortuna!
madam president, unlike the previous speaker i refuse to condemn so forcefully the government of israel or the israeli defence force in its operation on 29 september in gaza to prevent hamas – an organisation banned by both the us and the eu – from launching qassam rockets which recently killed two israeli children and wounded ten civilians in sderot. no government anywhere can tolerate civilian fatalities killed by a deadly and implacable enemy without reserving the right to retaliate with all the means at its disposal, and the palestinian authority has clearly not reined in its terrorists. for years hamas rockets were fortunately more like fire-crackers than bombs, but since the start of 2004, 149 high-explosive rockets have been launched from gaza. the bbc, not renowned as a friend of israel, has reported that 15 out of 16 of the palestinian men killed by the idf were known terrorist militants. all of us have a common enemy in fighting international islamist terrorism. last week in taba innocent israeli holidaymakers were killed by a bomb attack which has all the hallmarks of al-qa’ida. it must also be emphasised that israel took great care during the operation in gaza to provide medical and humanitarian support for all the casualties, as well as innocent palestinian civilians. prime minister sharon, in spite of fierce likud opposition, is pressing ahead with withdrawal of settlements from gaza as a way of kick-starting the roadmap for peace in the middle east again and bringing about a two-state solution. but i call on the palestinian authority to crack down on hamas, islamic jihad and al-aqsa martyrs' brigades, otherwise israel will be very reluctant to withdraw from the west bank, which poses a much bigger challenge and is ultimately a much bigger prize.
mr president, when i visited tbilisi with parliament’s delegation to georgia and the south caucasus, i was struck not only by the sheer decency and friendliness of the people of georgia, but also by how much there is to change in that country in such a difficult situation. the sheer lawlessness and the need for stronger law and order; the need for the russian troops to fulfil their promise and withdraw; the need above all for tolerance between neighbouring peoples in the south caucasus, to adopt the eu model - the way of learning to live in peace and tolerance and respecting each other, which they have to do. we all agree that it is clearly strongly in our interests to help the georgian peoples because they are our neighbours and we share a future. i wish to pay a strong tribute to my friend, mr patten, who i see has left to see the doctor already. he has been a great success as a commissioner. we owe him a great vote of thanks and i am sorry we are losing him.
mr president, before i begin my planned remarks, i wish to correct the ppe attempt to rewrite history: the ppe and its right-wing allies voted on monday to stop mr buttiglione being a commissioner at all. in the next five years of constructing an area of freedom, security and justice, we need effective and coherent action, democratic legitimacy, legal certainty and respect for fundamental rights. that would be a great improvement over the last five years. in spite of the valiant efforts of mr vitorino - whom i salute and will greatly miss - even he cannot work miracles on the council. let us look at effectiveness. as the commission’s communication said, the justice and home affairs dimension is now firmly identified as one of the union’s priority policies. however, when the commission cites the volume of justice and home affairs business being done in the european institutions and the regular appearance of such items on the european council’s agenda as evidence of their vital importance, i fear the wrong benchmark has been chosen, for while justice and home affairs generates 30% of translation work in the council, it only produces 5% of the decisions. we also know that intelligence and police liaison is inadequate: the german and spanish authorities had different bits of information that could have identified the 9/11 terrorists, even if it could not have prevented that atrocity. the record of implementation of eu decisions that are taken is poor. italy, the country in which mr buttiglione is still a minister, has not implemented the european arrest warrant. meanwhile that country is breaching the un refugee convention by deporting migrants to libya and preventing their access to an asylum determination procedure. therefore, coach and horses are being driven through the rule of law by the government that purports to supply the next commissioner for freedom, security and justice. the eu record on upholding fundamental rights, already fragile, is at risk and needs to improve radically. the measures on asylum and immigration in the last five years are incomplete and unbalanced and have incorporated some of the worst aspects of national policies. in particular, we have made almost no progress on avenues for legal immigration. no wonder the smugglers and traffickers are laughing all the way to the bank. we face increasing threats to privacy from various directions, including proposals for traffic data retention, transfer of air passenger data, profiling, merging of various databases, etc. meanwhile, data protection authorities are under-powered and under-resourced and there are no european rules specifically for the criminal justice area. we must uphold our standards and values in future, not erode them further. the eu should seek positively to raise standards of protection of citizens’ rights and a culture of respect for fundamental freedoms in order to create the mutual trust necessary for mutual recognition. the human rights agency, which i hope will be set up soon, should monitor and evaluate against the standards in the treaties. last, but certainly not least, we urgently need transparency and democratic scrutiny. why, as mr bourlanges said, is the council dragging its feet and defying the treaty of nice, which requires a semi-automatic passage to codecision as well as qualified majority voting? the myriad of arrangements on judicial and police cooperation between national officials - not eurocrats, let us note - need to come within the ambit of parliamentary scrutiny, as do the activities of the anti-terrorism coordinator.
mr president, i speak particularly for the uk independence party. the course of justice and security in europe took a backward step when internal border controls were abolished. this has encouraged large-scale movements of people across the continent, not to say much illegal immigration, all of which provides a perfect cover and condition for those you fear most: criminals such as the traffickers in human beings, and terrorists. they are now free to flourish. the uk independence party will re-establish britain’s border controls and take back the right to say who shall enter our country. for centuries we accepted people from all over the world, but in small numbers so that they could settle peacefully and productively. now our crowded islands are full and we seek to balance the number of those coming in against the number of those leaving. we believe in the sovereignty of the democratic nation-state. countries are perfectly capable of establishing their own humane criteria for asylum seekers and of managing their own security systems. the capacities and needs of one country are not the same as any other. we do not believe in eu style harmonisation!
mr president, i wish to turn the focus of this debate on organised crime and to draw some lessons from our experience in northern ireland. following the ceasefires in northern ireland, we have seen a marked diversion of terrorist muscle and effort, both loyalist and republican, to organised crime. the provisional ira is now a key player in this field. organised crime has become the main source of income and wealth for sinn féin/ira. ira army council member 'slab' murphy is a leading crime boss in ireland presiding over a border empire built on fuel smuggling. the ira stands exposed by the dublin justice minister as deeply implicated in organised crime centred on dublin port. serial hijacking of huge consignments of cigarettes is acknowledged to be the work of the ira. the inescapable truth is that sinn féin, which masquerades as a democratic party and has two shameless members in this house, is largely funded by organised criminal activity. little wonder it is the richest party in ireland. loyalist terrorists have also made organised crime their forte, particularly in the despicable drugs trade. they too stand exposed as the grubby gangsters that they are. my call in this house is that across europe, under the aegis of each nation-state, organised crime should be relentlessly pursued.
mr president, in looking to the future of an area of justice, could we also focus more attention on cooperation and access to justice in civil and commercial matters? it tends to be the cinderella area pushed out by more topical issues, yet it touches the daily lives of our citizens and businesses. a coherent civil and commercial legal order would ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and thereby the attainment of the lisbon goals. the basis of our approach must be mutual recognition, showing respect for our differing legal traditions and cultures. however, we should also question whether we are not creating a more tangled legal web and a two-tier system of justice, one for cross-border cases and another for so-called internal cases, as with the legal aid directive. an additional, optional, european cross-border justice system, which may emerge from the european payment order proposal, could bring less certainty and more confusion. on 25 october we are meant to be celebrating the european day of civil justice. i wonder if many people will notice the celebration. i would ask that we make it more visible in years to come.
mr president, as we debate an area of freedom, security and justice it is somewhat derisory that this proposed area extends all over europe but does not appear to be available here in the european parliament. for members to attack the purely personal views – and the right to express those views – of commission candidates because they do not comply with their own is an example of intolerance which demeans our assembly and the parties concerned. if those are the principles of socialism and liberalism, they are deeply undesirable in this place. in relation to the main issues, we do not need a prescriptive envelope. it benefits us sometimes, in our area of freedom, security and justice, to have more bilateral and multilateral agreements, such as the agreement on joint investigation teams, an initiative i was proud to be involved in at the time. however, we do not cooperate enough. it is arguable that if we concentrated on more cooperation between member states and organisations, instead of creating complex and over-reaching structures, we would achieve more practical results for our citizens and we would thereby encourage greater acceptance of the sort of europe that they can really accept and benefit from. in conclusion, i do not think i voted for mr vitorino. i do not think i even liked him very much at first. however, i want to make it clear that i think he has been an extremely effective and cooperative commissioner and that he respected this house. that, in my view, certainly puts him into a top category and i wish him the very best for the future.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to set out the history and the role of european data protection supervisor and the reasons for draft amending budget no 9. earlier this year the european data-protection supervisor and the assistant supervisor were appointed. this is three years after the regulation came into force. in february this year the commission presented preliminary draft amending budget no 2, providing the appropriations for the budget lines in section viii (b) of the 2004 budget. the commission proposed an overall amount of eur 1.2 million for the data protection supervisor to start his activities. the proposal was endorsed at the time by the council and parliament, and the new data protection supervisor mr hustinx and the assistant supervisor mr delgado have started working and are based in the premises of the european parliament. so, this amending budget no 9 will modify the appropriations of the edps by topping up the amount granted in amending budget no 2, which was passed earlier this year. however, it should be noted that the figures that were originally foreseen in amending budget no 2 were only for nine months. they were predicted in 2001 and the fact is that the data protection supervisor came into being in 2004. as a result of this delay of two years, this particular amending budget is necessary because we need to increase the appropriations in commitments by over eur 670 000 and in revenue by eur 170 000. furthermore, additional amounts of some eur 300 000 are needed to cover ongoing legal commitments. this includes remuneration of members of the institution; there is an adjustment to the appropriations for staff; there are also issues with regard to graduate traineeships and exchanges of officials. in addition, there is a requirement for rent and for data processing and telecommunications. i am also proposing that we enter eur 200 000 in the reserve. we will be reducing some of the appropriations for mission expenses, secretarial allowances, translation and interpretation costs, as well as expenditure on publishing and information. as i said earlier, these problems came about because the european parliament and the council adopted the regulation in 2001. the main purpose of this regulation is the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. with regard to the free movement of such data, this regulation established an independent supervisory authority, called the european data protection supervisor. this supervisor is responsible for monitoring the processing of personal data by community institutions and will work with each institution and its data protection officer. the supervisor will deal with sensitive personal data, relating for example to health methods and evaluation of staff. i am pleased to inform the house that the council has adopted this draft amending budget. however, i need to point out that in the debate in the committee on budgets there were some reservations about the costs. given that this is a newly established institution, we are prepared to accept this particular budget as it is. yet i do want to make it clear that in the future we want to see greater budgetary rigour as well as better planning and forecasting on the part both of the commission and these new institutions that we are establishing. i appreciate that there are constraints in relation to how the money can be spent, the legal basis, and so on. however, we have to ensure that we have better forecasting. looking at the number of amending budgets and so forth, we must also remember that we are at a critical point and that parliament will be establishing a new temporary committee on the financial perspectives. it is therefore important that whilst we fight for our main political objectives – which will be enshrined in the new financial perspectives – we also examine some of the internal structures, as well as inter–institutional arrangements. our internal procedures are often too complicated for the eu citizen to understand. we need to simplify the budgetary process. it is important to remember that what we are doing today is not just a question of technical information in the report: it matters to my constituents in west midlands and it matters to everybody's constituents across europe. this new institution will protect our citizens in relation to data processing, which is ever–increasing. that is a good thing and i am very pleased to recommend to the house that we adopt this amending budget as it stands.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. this report concerns the specific character of article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union with regard to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data; this is another success of the european union in recent years. the amsterdam treaty already provided for the appointment of a european data protection supervisor in 1997. the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights in 2000 has given a particular boost to the protection of fundamental rights in the union, including the protection of personal data. the european parliament and the council approved the appointment of the european data protection supervisor on 22 december 2003, which took effect on 17 january 2004. the european data protection supervisor shall be responsible for ensuring the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data within the community institutions and bodies established by or on the basis of this treaty. for the third time this year, this new control body is the addressee of an amending budget. on 9 may, the european parliament adopted amending budget no 2, which included the data protection officer in the 2004 budget with a budget of eur 1.272 million and 15 posts. the organisation plan now takes account of amending budget no 4 relating to the introduction of the new staff regulations. the report by mrs gill proposes that draft amending budget no 9 be adopted without amendments. the 2004 adjustment estimate is based on expenditure of eur 670.279 and revenue of eur 172.443. the specific plan viii, part b, has a total budget of eur 1,9 million for the financial year 2004 and provides for the conversion of three permanent posts into temporary posts with the same number of employees as approved in the second amending budget of this year. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her support of this draft and for the report and parliament's support in this area.
mr president, i speak on behalf of mr ferber, who is unable to be with us this evening, and also in my capacity as ppe-de group shadow rapporteur to mrs gill. the committee has been disappointed at the perceived inability to control the budget for the body in question, although i accept that it was only introduced this year. i was delighted when an institutional administrative cooperation agreement was signed in june between the commission, parliament and the council. this was designed firstly to ensure that this body took advantage of the experience gained in other institutions in the administrative and financial fields through the transfer of know-how; secondly to enable it immediately to take its place as an institution by exercising its functions and prerogatives; and, finally, to ensure compliance with the golden rule of good financial management through the introduction of economies of scale. we have not seen enough of the latter, which is why the ppe-de group abstained when it came to the vote on this particular supplementary and amending budget. we did not want to cause any disruption to the process and passage of the budget, but what we did - and mrs gill will bear this out - was to urge extreme caution for 2005. this will be a matter for another rapporteur, i know, but given that the eur 1.2 million initially required rose to 1.9 million, as the commissioner has just said, and 2.8 million is being requested for next year, i would urge the greatest of caution, because we expect better financial management than this. we have no grumbles or gripes about what this organisation does - it is badly needed - but we do have our concerns about how it does it.
mr president, all one can say is here we go again folks, roll up and see the incredible bureaucrats of brussels make another 1.2 million pounds of taxpayers money vanish in the blink of an eye. watch in amazement as they create yet another unwanted institution designed to bury our hard-pressed business community in realms of delightful new paperwork. before your very eyes see the european union keep on getting bigger and bigger. at the stroke of a pen a new interfering busybody will be given a gigantic budget with which to expand their personal fiefdom and create another mountain of red tape. mr president, the nation states can and do make their own arrangements on data protection. britain has its own data–protection register and very detailed regulations to go with it. we simply do not need this post of european data–protection supervisor and i strongly urge members to vote against this amending budget and, just for once, to say 'no' to the eu empire builders.
i need advice. i thank you, mr president. like the honourable members, the council welcomes the commission communication on developing countries, international trade and sustainable development, the role of the community's generalised system of preferences for the period 2006-2015, and in particular the general objective set out therein. the gsp should be stable, predictable, objective, simple, transparent, wto-compatible and take into account the specific needs of developing countries. the council supported the commission's efforts to simplify the cap overall with the overall aim of helping developing countries to reduce poverty and promote sustainable development. to this end, the countries eligible for gsp should be determined on the basis of objective development criteria. the council, like the european parliament, recalls that more detailed information on implementation is needed to be able to adopt a definitive position and at this stage the council can only comment on the basic principles explained in the commission's communication. as stated in the council and commission statement on the development policy of the european community, the council considers that the common commercial policy can help to strengthen the objectives of development policy. this is particularly true of the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development, of which the fight against drugs is an integral part. preferential access to the markets of developed countries is a factor contributing to economic development and to the integration of developing countries into the world economy. as regards a number of specific questions from the honourable members, first of all sap+. the council is prepared to give favourable consideration to the sap+ proposal. through the substantial preferences of the sap+, developing countries are encouraged to comply with conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance, of which the fight against drugs is an important part. however, a number of crucial issues remain to be addressed. these are the list of relevant agreements, which agreements will be mandatory, the conditions and procedures for granting and withdrawing gsp+, fourthly, which monitoring systems will be used, fifthly, any additional criteria linked to the development needs of beneficiaries and, finally, the possible transitional arrangements for beneficiaries of current incentive schemes who may not be eligible for gsp.
commission mr president, the system of generalised preferences has now been in existence for almost thirty years. it consists of granting, on the basis of general principles which we review every ten years, tariff preferences, that is, in fact, reductions in customs duties, to some 180 developing countries. by encouraging european importers to source from these countries, this system of generalised preferences is in fact a tool for development aid through trade. the system that was agreed ten years ago expires at the end of 2005 and a new ten-year cycle will therefore begin in 2006. that is why, last july, i presented a commission communication to the council and parliament, the aim of which was to outline the general principles on which the implementing legislation which will frame council regulations will be based during this new period. these regulations themselves may be revised every three years to adapt to changing economic realities which experience has shown to be the case. the european union is by far the most generous partner in terms of trade preferences. the acp system is not to be mentioned, but about 53 billion trade flows benefit from these preferences. with figures like these, we are far ahead of all other preferred donors, as the united states, which is number two, is at $17 billion. and we all know that enlargement to include ten new member states will only increase the union's preeminence in this area. the evaluation of the results of the gsp - and i am already answering mrs morgantini and mr barón crespo on this point - has been made, it exists. we have figures, all the available figures, and the evaluation shows that, on the whole, this system has had positive results, but that we can still improve it. however, the system has had positive results; the latest available final figures show, for example, that between 2000 and 2002 our imports as such increased from 47 to 53 billion euros, which is a considerable increase, especially as some products, for technical reasons, have been removed from the gsp list. similarly, the so-called gsp utilisation rate, i.e. the ratio between trade flows that are theoretically eligible for gsp and imports that are actually benefiting from gsp, has increased steadily in recent years, and is currently close to 55%. so that's the positive side that shows that the system works. on the other hand, the current incentive schemes, and particularly everything that revolves around the application of the social and environmental clauses, have not been very successful, since only two beneficiary countries, sri lanka and moldova, which are not exactly elephants in world trade, benefit from the social clause. we must take account of these experiences, and hence the objectives of the reform the commission is proposing, which are to make this system of preferences simpler, more generous, more focused on the countries which need it, and more objective. first, a simpler system. this is the first time i've seen it. why would you do that? because the more we go to developing countries, the more security is needed by operators in those countries. that is why we propose to move from a five-window system, which is the present system, to a three-window system. the five windows are: the basic regime, the social clause regime, the environmental clause regime, the drug regime and the "everything but arms" regime, which is the one in force for the least developed countries. from five, i propose we go to three. on the one hand, we would maintain a basic diet; on the other hand, we would have the 'everything but arms' regime for the least developed countries, and we would have an intermediate regime called gsp plus, which would be a scheme to encourage sustainable development in all its dimensions: social dimension, environmental dimension, good governance dimension, including the fight against drugs. the gsp plus would consist of the abolition of customs duties for beneficiary countries which have committed themselves to ratifying and applying the main international conventions in this field. what conventions? we propose to retain the international conventions which are in some ways 'unquestionable': the un covenants on political, economic, social and cultural rights, the basic conventions of the international labour organization, or the un convention against corruption. some of these conventions will have to be integrated for countries to benefit from this gsp plus. for example, the two un conventions, the eight conventions of the international labour organization, the conventions against racial discrimination or discrimination against women, everything relating to torture, the rights of the child, genocide. of course, we will be calling for the ratification of these conventions, not just ratification, but also their effective implementation. i am responding to a second comment made by mrs morgantini. we are planning a two-pronged assessment of this. firstly, at the time of the appraisal of applications: access to the gsp plus would be denied to beneficiary countries which do not commit themselves to this. the second is that the competent international bodies would be responsible, in a sense, for assessing the application of each convention. for example, a country like belarus, no matter how far it has come in ratifying the conventions, could not, as it stands today, be eligible. that's what conventions are. a simpler system, then, and also a more generous one. why more generous? because as multilateral trade negotiations progress, customs duties are steadily eroding, with the consequence that the comparative advantage of the countries benefiting from the preferential system is eroding. we must therefore compensate for this tariff erosion if we are to preserve the benefit which developing countries derive from the gsp. we therefore propose to extend the gsp coverage to a number of new products, so that this erosion of tariffs is offset by an increase in the export base. we are discussing this increase in the commission, with a new deadline next week - i will come back to that - when we will be tackling difficult, delicate, sensitive subjects, but on which we want to make progress. this is the case for fishery products. we are also very generous - and i am responding to the third observation made by mrs morgantini earlier - and we intend to make proposals to adapt the rules of origin. as many studies have shown, rules of origin are an essential condition for access to trade preferences. the conditions we impose on the origin of products are not there to take away from the left hand what we give to the right hand, but, in fact, they are there to ensure that the preferences benefit the country we are targeting and not another. and for that, we need conditions governing the origin and control of that origin. it is true, however, that the rules in force today were drawn up decades ago, in a context where the european union was more defensive in its trade policy than it is today. so we have to adjust them to get out of that old system and to take into account the fact that today, the processes have changed. for example, in a context of globalisation and international division which has split production processes between different countries, we need to re-examine the question of, in particular, the cumulation of origins between the country of origin of the commodity and certain countries from which other inputs used in the manufacture of the same commodity may originate. it is in this spirit that we are going to make proposals, following on from the green paper which my colleague mr bolkestein and i published at the end of last year. as mr barón crespo has just suggested, for example, possible relaxations could be sought in order to encourage the regional integration of the countries benefiting from preferences. the third objective of the reform is to concentrate preferences on those countries which need them most. this is obviously a politically sensitive issue, because, as with any reform of this kind, some will win and some will lose. we intend to concentrate the system of preferences on the recipient countries which need it most, that is to say, in reality, on those developing countries which are the smallest, the most landlocked, the most vulnerable, and not on the large countries which already today occupy increasingly important positions in international trade. consider, for example, china's position in the international trade in textiles and clothing. of course, we will maintain the 'everything but arms' system for the poorest countries, which is one of the features of the union's development policy in its trade integration. so we will have to limit the criteria and, moreover, continue with the aim of helping a number of countries to gain access to our market and, once they have done so, to proceed with a grading system. we simply want - and i am responding to mrs morgantini's first observation - to radically simplify the grading system, in particular to meet the requirements of the world trade organisation, following the panels we lost, at least partially, against india on the drugs regime. our response to this question will be to focus graduation on the concept of the competitiveness of the products in receipt of aid. the essential criterion will be market share; ownership of a given percentage of imports into the community will be the trigger for graduation. once a developing country reaches a certain level of market share in the european union, we consider that we have done what was necessary to help it export and that it can, if i may say so, fly on its own wings. what will that threshold be? it's a little early to give you a figure. we are discussing this in the commission. this will obviously have consequences for the countries concerned. i can assure you, however, that whatever the final figure we get, it will be very large exporting countries that will be affected and not the majority of our beneficiaries, the 180 of whom i mentioned earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i understood from mrs morgantini's speech that she had some concerns about the possibility of parliament having a full say on this new draft. it is clear - and i thank enrique barón crespo for what he said about the work of this commission, particularly in its relations with parliament, which will not change - that we want parliament to express itself, because this reform is important both from the point of view of development and from the point of view of commercial policy. we simply have a few constraints on the timetable, which i mentioned very recently before your committee. firstly, we were not able to start this reform until the new member states arrived in may last year. we must absolutely involve them in the decision which will bind the union until 2015. the second was the outcome of a wto dispute. this is the lawsuit that india has brought against us over the drug regime. this decision was taken in april 2004. this is the moment from which we could start working on the background. the reform is due to enter into force on 1 january 2006, so it should be completed, if possible, one year in advance. why a year in advance? to enable the beneficiary countries and economic operators to adapt. this means that the first implementing regulation should be adopted in the coming months. i shall present it to my colleagues next week, on 20 october, and you will have it immediately afterwards. i know and i understand that parliament needs a little time and we will of course do what is necessary for that and you know that our troops are fully at your disposal. the aim is to help developing countries export to us. these are developing countries and by definition they need more time than others to adjust to the sometimes complicated rules, even though the regime we are putting in place will be simplified. my feeling, and this is my message to your assembly, is that they would need at least nine to ten months. i am sure that those of you who are committed to this regime for development policy reasons will understand my concern on this point.
mr president, i welcome the plans for serious revision of the gsp, which is long overdue. i also welcome the council's recent conclusions, which very clearly demand meaningful consultation with the european parliament. it is a matter of regret that the commission's communication was not the result of a full stakeholder consultation and did not appear sufficiently in advance to allow for meaningful consultation before the release of the next regulation. it is vital that parliament and all other interested stakeholders have a proper opportunity to input into this very important process, and i am glad that commissioner lamy has agreed to that. in terms of substance, it is clear that the gsp urgently needs to be simplified since it is clearly not working properly. the rules of origin requirements are far too strict, with the result that a large proportion of developing-country exports to the eu fail to gain preferential access because they are deemed to be non-originating. one of the justifications for strict rules of origin is that they should promote so-called backward linkages, i.e. the production of intermediate goods in developing countries themselves. yet the experience of this clearly demonstrates that rules of origin are not an appropriate instrument to achieve that goal. in fact, most developing countries are small, with little capacity to develop a full supply chain. sri lanka is a classic example, having developed a thriving garment sector but still not having the capacity to supply textiles to support that industry. it relies essentially on an indirect instrument of trade policy to foster a supply response in developing countries that is likely to be much less efficient and much more vulnerable to abuse than straightforward financial incentives or technical assistance or infrastructure provision for the industries concerned. i am pleased that mr lamy says that we are going to have some real action on rules of origin. the commission should be looking at far-reaching proposals, such as proposals that would in general allow a least-developed country export to qualify for duty-free access to the eu if at least 40% of a good's value is added in a least-developed country that is not necessarily the final country of export. in the case of textiles and clothing, we clearly need to go even further, because some of the poorest countries will face enormous shocks when the multifibre agreement is withdrawn. organisations like oxfam have made some very detailed proposals in this area. my last point relates to textiles again. when the mfa is withdrawn, some of the poorest countries will face major problems. i would suggest that developing countries which are highly dependent on textiles and clothing, but are not necessarily classified as least-developed countries, should be exempted temporarily from the existing rules of origin requirements. this applies particularly to countries that obtain more than 50% of their current export revenue from textiles and clothing. i would be very interested in the views of the commission and council on that proposal.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner and wish to pick up on something he referred to rather poignantly: development aid through trade. as a member of the committee on international trade, i believe very strongly in this and we welcome the 2006-2015 reforms to the generalised system of preferences. they cover areas such as textiles, which is a particularly big area. however, there are potential dangers for developing countries in this revision; one country that has been mentioned already is sri lanka. i feel therefore that graduation is needed for some countries that are now independently competitive in this area. in connection with graduation, it is important to extend the scheme to new products. one of our concerns relates to the new products the commission proposes to add to the gsp system. the proposals appear to be rather vague and the graduation extension must be fully explained in the commission’s legislative process. we also need to bear in mind that the gsp system was designed for the least­developed countries. i agree with the commissioner that resources should therefore be focused on them. this brings me to a point that mr van hecke raised: first of all we must try to ensure that rules of origin take into account second-stage products, which help countries to industrialise, and particularly ones such as cotton. however, we need to ensure that when the detailed proposals are set out on the rules of origin, which allow countries to industrialise without the scheme being too far­reaching, we also look at the way in which countries apply them. there has been some dispute as to whether countries have been apply them to transit products, thereby adding value to these. this is something about which we feel very strongly. finally, commissioner, the commission communication itself suggests self­regulation for ldcs under the gsp. we argue against this in the resolution, because the time is not yet ripe. we request technical assistance in the implementation of new schemes, especially with regard to self-policing. it is important that the commission shows how this is to be done.
mr president, i too welcome what is an extremely necessary and timely initiative by the commissioner, and i would also like to thank him very much for his cooperation and hard work during his time as commissioner, which parliament has appreciated very much. however, although i welcome the initiative, it must be said that it is very general. the commissioner himself acknowledges that it contains a lot of very broad proposals. we want more information on thresholds for graduation and on how much the gsp will be improved for countries that are not graduated. i also look forward to more details on the rules of origin, because it is quite difficult to judge at this point whether what is being proposed is anything more than cosmetic. i would like to know whether the commissioner agrees with my assessment that if the eu substantially enhances its preference system, it could meet the requirements of the improved gsp option, the epa alternative, which some non-ldcs are continuing to call for, as the commissioner is well aware. at the meeting in gaborone, the eu agreed to postpone until 2006 the anticipated review of the situation of non-ldcs that are not in a position to enter into epas. it also seems to me that wto rules allow for differentiation between developing countries in non-reciprocal trade preference schemes, provided that such arrangements are based on objective criteria and that identical treatment is available to all similarly-situated developing countries. on the basis of that analysis, i would like the commissioner to be more specific on whether, when cotonou was negotiated, an enhanced gsp was looked at as an option for those that could not or did not want to enter into epa negotiations. i asked for this information in committee, but i was not entirely satisfied with the answer. finally, i should like the commissioner to provide more information and clarity on what is meant by 'vulnerable', 'special development needs' and 'small economies'. the commissioner talked about landlocked countries, etc., but he needs to spell things out more clearly so that we know exactly what he means.
mr president, this should prove a popular moment in this house and i am grateful for the massive turnout for the continuation of the debate on drugs in sport. from the health promotion point of view, we want to see the encouragement of sporting activity and sporting excellence. we also want to see prevention of the use of drugs that damage health. sporting excellence can only flourish in an environment of fitness, skill, training and fair competition. it must be based on the natural abilities of the individual athlete or team, and never on performance enhanced by pharmaceutical or technical aids. that is cheating and must be rooted out through a policy of accurate and random testing. such tests must distinguish between genuine medication and performance­enhancing drugs. in fact it is worse than cheating, because it puts the health of the athletes at risk. what athlete would knowingly cause damage to his heart or liver, his kidneys or reproductive organs? who would willingly stunt his growth or make himself prone to violent or aggressive behaviour? who would put at risk his memory or his mind? all these things can result from taking oral or injected steroids, without mentioning the risks entailed by sharing needles. too many athletes and coaches either do not understand this or knowingly take the risk. these drugs distort and damage sport, the health of individual competitors and the example set to young people, who look up to sporting heroes as role models. that is why we must educate and prevent, why we must test and deter and why we must do both these things together.
mr president, on 29 november the committee on culture and education will hold a hearing of experts on this matter, after which parliament will want to bring forward specific proposals. i would like to mention a number of complex areas. one is the development of illicit drugs, which are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. another is that the increasing professionalism of sport and the huge financial rewards on offer mean that the temptation to enhance performance through illicit drugs has increased. lastly, even when sportsmen are found to have cheated, the real winners are denied recognition for their victory because of delays attributable to the testing system. i have two questions: should random testing not be considerably increased in order to increase the certainty of detection and, similarly, what technical improvements are required to remove all doubt? it is often claimed that when sportsmen have failed tests it has been due to their taking legal medication. once we have specific answers to these questions, we will come back with proposals.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, which shares many of the aspirations contained in this resolution. however, responsibility for ratification of the treaty lies with the member states, in accordance with national law. we do not feel we should be attempting to second­guess the national ratification procedures, and more specifically the date for the referendums, and therefore chose to abstain.
mr president, i welcome both the commission's intention to reform the generalised system of preferences and the resolution that we have just adopted. it is very important that the system be simplified and made more accessible for developing countries, particularly the least developed countries. in addition, it is very important that we maintain within the system the special incentive arrangements for the protection of labour rights – which are hardly used at the moment – and the special rights for the environment – which are also under–used. any reform must encourage the further and greater use of those rights. there is also a special arrangement under the current gsp called 'gsp–plus'. this is for countries tackling drug abuse and drug trafficking. again, it is important that this be protected in any reform of the gsp. to conclude, if these areas are safeguarded, it is encouraging that the commission has decided to modernise the gsp.
mr president, during commission question time at the last part-session 34 questions were tabled by meps but only eight received answers, which is a new record. this is because the commissioners took on average nearly ten minutes for each answer. would you please ask the incoming commission - assuming that there is one - to voluntarily submit to the sensible rules of this house, whereby speaking time is measured and limited? this may permit members to ask more questions and, i hope, receive more answers.
mr president, it was just announced that tomorrow we will vote urgently on financial aid for serbia and montenegro. however, a week ago there was an extraordinary book launch in belgrade. it was by radovan karadzic, formerly president of the bosnian serbs. mr karadzic is wanted on two counts of genocide at the un war crimes tribunal in the hague and, together with ratko mladic, he is held responsible for the 1995 srebrenica massacre, where 7 000 muslim men and boys were systematically murdered, and the siege of sarajevo, which caused 12 000 deaths and terrible suffering. mr karadzic's book is called the miraculous chronicle of the night. mr karadzic was not present at the launch. however, the fact that he has been able to publish a book and escape the nato and bosnian serb police, who are supposed to be looking for him, is itself a miraculous chronicle of the night. it does not inspire confidence that these forces are doing enough to harass him and his network of loyal supporters so that he can be brought to justice. i hope parliament can send a message that nato and the bosnian serb police need to try a little harder.
mr president, i have great respect for spain, which is one of my favourite places in europe. however, i am concerned to learn from the health protection agency that out of 6000 salmonella cases in the united kingdom, the majority can be traced back to eggs from spain. i am not sure whether experience in the egg industry features on your lengthy cv, but i wonder whether i could urge, through you, that cooperation take place between the spanish authorities and the commission to try and resolve the situation, so as to avoid people calling for a ban on the import of spanish eggs. i would also like to ask you, president, when the practice for this period of one–minute statements changed from a 'catch–the–eye' system to one where members have to put down their names in advance. in the past, the president could use his or her discretion: for example, you, mr president, could have chosen to limit the number of right-wing catholics that you wished to allow to speak, thus giving a better balance. when did the system change from catch–the–eye to putting down names?
mr president, on friday, the international council for exploration of the sea published its annual fish stock assessment figures, advice which showed that north sea haddock stocks exceed even last year's record highs. yet the headline story fed to the media, in advance of that advice, referred only to cod stocks and the lack of improvement therein in the north sea. this has echoes of last year's situation when, after the publication of scientific advice, there followed threats to close the entire north sea to all fishing. ultimately, at the december council last year, the commission tabled a quota recovery plan which quickly proved to be unworkable. it did nothing to safeguard cod and it prevented scots fishermen from catching their allowed haddock quota. if – and i say if – we have a new fisheries commissioner by the end of this week, i call upon him fully to involve the new north sea regional advisory council in the setting of quotas in advance of this december's council, so that a sensible and workable plan on quota setting procedure can take place.
because we have run over the time allotted for this debate i am unable to give the floor to mr trichet to answer some of the very interesting questions that have been asked. i would ask you, mr trichet, to reply in writing to those members who have asked questions, with a copy to the president of parliament.
the commission mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr lipietz for his work as rapporteur on this report and all the members of parliament who have taken part in its debate and in its discussion before this plenary session today for the contributions they have made to it, and of course i would also like to congratulate the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, on the excellent quality of the report which is the subject of our debate today. the debate has revealed many coincidences, which are already in the report and have been mentioned by most of the members who have spoken. firstly, the success of economic and monetary union; 2003 was the fifth year of economic and monetary union, and over these five years price stability has improved considerably; interest rates have been reduced and are allowing for much more stable and satisfactory financing conditions for the economy than we could have had had we not decided to take the extraordinarily important step of building economic and monetary union and creating a single currency with a system incorporating the status of independence of the european central bank. i also agree with those who have said that macroeconomic stability, sound macroeconomic policies, price stability or low interest rates are a necessary condition, but they do not explain by themselves the state of growth in the european union, particularly in 2003, the year to which the report we are discussing today refers, but also in 2004. macroeconomic stability, sound macroeconomic policies and the independence of the european central bank are necessary but not sufficient conditions. and of course we shall have the opportunity to discuss it from next week. the revitalisation of the lisbon strategy and the new impetus for structural reforms, in line with the objectives and guidelines agreed in march 2000, are essential if we are to achieve stable and sustained growth in a european union which must not only grow but also grow in conditions of stability, promoting social cohesion and the sustainability of our growth and our growth model. i also welcome, as the report and some of the speeches have shown, the dialogue between the institutions, as well illustrated by the debate we are having today. independence is not at odds with dialogue. and respect for the functions of each of the institutions which are part of economic and monetary union helps to make the dialogue fruitful and develop in the best possible conditions, as is the case today. and some specific comments, mr president. firstly, the stability and growth pact is still fully in force and there is a phrase in the explanatory statement of the report which could suggest that the serious political conflict which took place in november 2003 in the council had left the stability and growth pact with a mortal wound. and as we had the opportunity to discuss here last month, the pact is in force; the european constitution has just ratified the major objectives of stability in terms of deficit and debt; the framework for economic governance remains the one decided at the beginning of economic and monetary union. what we need to do is to improve its implementation, as mr trichet has said, and in any case to discuss whether, in the light of the experience and the application of the stability and growth pact in recent years, there are possibilities for improving its development, not to change the objectives of stability and growth, but to make them a reality in a more effective and more consistent way than we have been able to do so far. secondly, a comment, en passant, as mr trichet would say, on the euro one and two cent coins. the banknotes are the responsibility of the european central bank, and mr trichet will say what he has to say on behalf of the bank. the council has adopted a regulation on euro coins and their fractions and the commission is responsible for enforcing the regulations. and regardless of the decisions that are being taken and that may be taken in the future in any of the euro area member states, one and two cent coins are still legal tender and that is in the regulations and it is the commission that will defend that it remains so in the future. finally, a word on the economic situation mentioned by mr trichet. tomorrow, after the meeting of the college of commissioners here in strasbourg, i shall have the opportunity to inform parliament and the public through the media of the commission's economic forecasts for this autumn, taking into account something we shall be discussing in a moment, which is the impact, certainly not positive but rather negative, of the rise in oil prices to which we have been subjected in recent months.
president of the ecb. mr president, i shall not take more than a minute and, as you have requested, i shall reply in writing to the very pertinent questions that have been put. i simply wanted to confirm that the dialogue between parliament and the european central bank is such that we have just decided to make our quarterly projections public. it is a suggestion that was made by parliament, so we are taking a very substantial step in a direction that has been mentioned by several speakers. secondly, the question of amending the hungarian law has been raised and i must say that in the analysis we are making there is at least one element which does not seem acceptable to us in what is being proposed at the moment in the hungarian parliament and which perhaps should be discussed immediately. that's why i think it was important that i could respond to you in real time. the fact that the two vice-presidents are excluded from the monetary policy council, which is where interest rates are decided, does not seem to us to be in any way consistent with the independence as stated in the maastricht treaty. i simply wanted to say that and i respected what you wanted, mr president.
that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at 12.30.
mr president, as a number of colleagues have said, this is nothing new. the car industry is probably one of the most competitive manufacturing industries of any that we deal with. there are over ten major manufacturers producing cars in europe and spending billions on research and development. it is a competitive market. there will inevitably be changes. i want to remind colleagues that three years ago one of gm's major plants in the united kingdom was closed. i will read a headline from today's birmingham post, which i picked up on the plane on my way here this morning: 'car output near record levels'. it is likely that in the united kingdom this year we will produce a record number of cars. that record was last broken in 1972. the message to the many people who are facing uncertainty in rüsselsheim, bochum and trollhättan - and i have been to some of those plants - is that there is life after restructuring. that is why the united kingdom car industry is doing relatively well. i am not complacent about it, but it is a fact. we should be reflecting on why general motors tells us that it needs to save eur 500 million a year in costs to make itself competitive. i am sure it can justify those figures. we need to work together. that is the message that needs to go out. it is impossible to achieve record levels of car output in the united kingdom with, in many plants, quality and productivity levels that are the best in europe, without working between managers and the workforce and with dealers and customers. as mentioned in mr rehn's statement this afternoon, we must encourage the commission to look at the competitive conditions. we do not want an industrial plan for the car industry. we do not want the commission or politicians telling car companies what to do. we are in a competitive market. but that eur 500 million will go into the cleaner, safer cars that europe's consumers want. that is the change that is needed.
mr president, many communities, many families in scotland are highly dependent upon the fishing industry, an industry which has had massive economic and social pain inflicted upon it as a direct result of political decisions made in brussels under the common fisheries policy. the rocketing cost of fuel could be the final straw for many businesses - and a fishing boat in scotland very often is a business, a family-run business - which have been forced by the cfp to operate this year for only 15 days each month. some eu governments apparently recognise the exceptional economic pressure which rising fuel prices puts upon the fisheries sector. recently france, supported by at least four other member states, saw it as a long-term community mechanism for granting public aid to the sector. this initiative was opposed - unsurprisingly - by the uk, citing the need to respect state aid and competition rules. i think the real reason for the uk failing to support that proposal was, as usual, that it did not wish for any precedent which might require it to aid its fishing industry - which it never does. mr fischler, regrettably, was also unsympathetic, apparently saying that fisheries, unlike the agriculture sector, could easily respond to the fuel price increases by increasing fish prices. that is all very well, but what about the consumer, and what about the fact that fish products are relatively healthy and are recommended by dieticians to consumers? the agriculture sector in scotland is also suffering greatly from high fuel costs, not just through the direct use of fuel on farms, but also owing to the excessive cost of sending their produce to distant markets, an economic pressure which the uk treasury has also added to in the form of unjustly high levels of taxation. but it is people and communities and not just businesses that suffer. the orcadian, the newspaper of the orkney islands, reports a 67% rise in the price of fuel leading to an overspend by orkney ferries. sometimes in the orkney isles, the shetland isles and the western isles it is normal and indeed essential for people to take two ferries to get to work or to shop. this is not just affecting businesses, it is impacting on a whole community.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, three months ago, the alliance of liberals and democrats urged the president–designate of the commission to respect the prerogatives of this parliament. my group and this house have offered a sober and considered rejection of his nominee for commissioner for justice and home affairs. mr barroso, we recognise that you could work only with what you were given. we recognise that your independence is not total. we have, on the whole, offered our support for the other members of your commission. but our judgement stands, and it will be respected. this group supported you as president of the commission; we voted for you; we still support you. but we value the prerogatives of this house too highly to see them taken lightly. i welcome the package of measures that you have put before this house today. i believe you come here in a genuine search for rapprochement. some of the measures you propose are bold and all of them are important. i believe that you are committed personally to the promotion of fundamental rights and that this spirit will infuse the commission you will lead. liberals and democrats will consider your proposals carefully. but i am bound to say that they come late in the day and they contain little about mr buttiglione's future, a future which may be intimately bound to the future of the commission-designate. this house is not asking to be placated or patronised. (applause)we are asking that the other branches of our european government recognise what our treaties recognise and what the european constitution recognises: that power in europe rests in some measure with this chamber and its elected members. the approval process is not a rubber stamp and this parliament should not be treated as one. it has been said often in the last week that it will be liberals and democrats who decide the fate of this commission. but liberals and democrats did not nominate the commissioners rejected by parliament's committees. it was not liberals and democrats who would not or could not find the compromise that might have put mr buttiglione beyond the reach of controversy. whatever happens tomorrow, the fate of this commission has more than one architect. moreover, i know that i am not the only one in this chamber who feels that there is an invisible elephant in the room. the elephant is justus lipsius. the elephant is in the heads of the governments who gave you a weaker commission than you deserve, and then refused to come to your aid when our house called their bluff. (applause)how many of europe's governments would have done what mr berlusconi probably did and told you to take their man, basta, even if it left you with a commission containing a commissioner whose political feet of clay would probably disqualify him from inclusion in most of the european union's national governments? (applause)my group feels that member states owe europe their best and their brightest. how many governments have shown their willingness to accept the democratic and legal right of our parliament to judge the men and women who were proposed? the silence you hear is the sound of europe's governments leaving you and your new commission swinging in the wind. as the defenders of the community method, the strength of our house is ultimately the strength of yours. because if the council can mock the prerogative of this parliament, then be absolutely sure that it thinks the same of the independence of your commission. the council prefers this parliament to be weak. too many in the council find it convenient for the commission to be weak. my group wants this parliament to be strong, because we cannot conceive of a strong european union without it. and we want your commission to be strong because the european union needs an independent executive of the highest calibre. we have demanded a new framework agreement with your commission: draft it and sign it, so that we will not be brought to this impasse again. this house faces a heavy choice. if liberals and democrats vote against the commission-designate, we will not do so lightly. but we cannot, and we will not, diminish the status of this house, the standing of the civil liberties committee or the stature of the post of the european commissioner for justice and home affairs in the interest of an easy life. you might say - if i can use mr buttiglione's own words - that we will not change our principles against our conscience for political convenience. (loud applause from the left and centre)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, this row over mr buttiglione sums up the biggest problem of the european union. across our continent there are many different cultures, different languages, different religions and different ways of living. this attempt politically to force them all to become one will, in my opinion, never work. in ukip, we take no side on mr buttiglione's comments whatsoever. our reasons for opposing this commission are different. we oppose it because it is an undemocratic institution. even if tomorrow this house kicks it out, what we will get is a new set of political appointees, and it will still continue to look like a rest home for failed domestic politicians. it makes law, it produces law, in over 3 000 committees whose constitution nobody ever knows and has not been declared. the commission is the government of the european union and it has the sole right to initiate law – something which the constitutional treaty does nothing to amend. the commission is the motor of integration. the commission is the guardian of treaties that are already unacceptable. the commission is the enemy of the nation-state. that is what it is all about. we will be voting 'no' tomorrow. perhaps the rather delicious irony is that, for the first time ever in this house, the uk independence party will be with the majority. (applause)
mr president, mr barroso referred to our committee hearing process as an example of democracy in action, but that process, without the accompanying power to approve or reject individuals, makes our hearings more of a charade. after the hearings, i heard spokespeople for certain political groups express deep disappointment at the performance of certain individuals but go on to say that because he or she was a member of their political family, they would support them anyway. mr barroso acknowledged certain specific weaknesses – conflicts of interest – and claimed to have attempted to deal with that. i think conflicts of interest are as much about perception as actuality. surely, it is not too much to expect each individual to have done enough homework to be able to demonstrate that they have mastered their brief. citizens' expectations and our sense of responsibility were referred to. my sense of responsibility demands that i vote against the commission tomorrow. (applause)
madam president, in the run-up to this debate we have seen left-wing and liberal hysteria reach a crescendo. when put to the test, those who talk the most about human rights and freedom of speech have hypocritically displayed themselves as utterly intolerant in their virulent attacks on commissioner-designate buttiglione. i regret that the president of this parliament diminished his office by joining the left-wing herd in what, however it is dressed up, amounts to a denial of the commission-designate's right of freedom of thought and speech. it is a sad commentary on moral probity in this house that one who dares to hold to moral rectitude is so relentlessly vilified. however, for me the defining issue is something else. it is that i will not endorse by my vote government by unelected placemen. i for one will not lend the veneer … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first i would like to thank the commissioners who willingly underwent the hearings process; it was a gruelling experience for all concerned. the process is far from perfect; there are certainly improvements that can be made, but the legitimacy of the process is accepted, not only by the commission and the parliament, but also by the council. there are serious political consequences, and we are now preparing to draw our conclusions. i have to say to president-designate barroso that if we vote the commission down, we will not be creating a constitutional crisis. the institutions are acting within their treaty powers. we will be creating a political drama, but parliament is breathing democracy into the constitutional settlement that we are to sign up to with so much pride in rome on friday. if the first barroso team is rejected, we look forward to seeing the second barroso team as soon as is practicable. (applause)
madam president, we are not persecuting mr buttiglione, but trying to save european citizens from being led on justice issues by someone so eminently unsuitable. it is not only that he is prepared to implement his reactionary prejudices against women and gay people in public policy – and what signal is he sending to his eight female colleagues? – he also has a very poor record on asylum and immigration, security and the rule of law. you gave us a list of initiatives the commission would take, but they are already in progress, or should be priorities in any case. mr barroso, you say that it is impossible to change the portfolio at this stage. you are thereby showing complete contempt for this parliament, since it is precisely what it has asked for. you need to stand up to the council. i backed you in july because i thought you would be independent. i understand that mr blair is personally phoning around british labour meps to try and twist their arms so that they do not vote against. he would be better using taxpayers' money on his phone bill telling his mate, mr berlusconi, to switch his candidate.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade.– mr president, the committee on international trade's demands are very modest and we are pleased that the committee on budgets has agreed to the two key demands that we made. first we objected to the council's reductions from the preliminary draft budget in terms of staffing for dg trade. given the extent of the talks taking place at wto level, the number of disputes that now go before the wto disputes panel and the need to open further external offices of the european union, we thought that to cut the dg trade's budget was unacceptable. i am pleased to say that the committee on budgets agreed with us and through the global amendment has restored those cuts. the second issue that the committee on international trade had concerns about was the need to have a parliamentary forum to follow the work of the wto. again we wanted to make sure there was a budget line to finance that parliamentary forum and again the committee on budgets agreed with us. so the committee on international trade is very happy that the committee on budgets has approved, in their entirety, both the amendments we put forward. i hope now that this house will back the committee on budgets and that the council will accept the amendments made by parliament.
mr president, after reading the reports on the proposed budget for 2005, i cannot help but wish that they could also be read by those useful idiots back home, upon whom the british government so often relies, who keep telling us that the eu is not about creating a giant single state. i should like them to count how many times the word 'integration' appears in the text. let me concentrate on one issue. i am heartily sickened to read the passages about how many millions are to be aside for bodies that are - to quote the jargon - 'active at european level' or 'information relays'. they are to receive huge handouts, which they call 'community subsidies for organisations working to advance the idea of europe'. i will cut through all the jargon and tell you precisely what they are talking about: brainwashing! the european union is a self-perpetuating political bureaucracy. in its quite unprecedented fashion it can arbitrarily allocate vast amounts of taxpayers' money towards the establishment of chairs in universities and to bankrolling educational institutions with deeply worrying titles, such as 'the college of europe' or 'the european university institute', and dozens of others. in total, there is a financial envelope of eur 77 million over 3 years in this brainwashing budget. this budget is a gross misuse of public money. a large slice of the money it encompasses will be used to brainwash the public into thinking that the european union is wonderful and that 'integration' really is a nice word. there is nothing nice about misleading people. in my country this is known as leading them down the garden path. we should reject this budget.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs, and especially mrs jensen, who took on responsibility for her report halfway through the year. speaking for the socialist group, we support mrs jensen's approach and believe that the amendments represent a satisfactory compromise between the commission's proposals and the council's cuts in the draft budget. in particular, i endorse fully the reinstatement of the pdb for the ombudsman's budget, and also for funding for an objective information campaign on the constitutional treaty. it is important that our citizens are able to make informed decisions based on facts. as regards the secretarial allowance, if we are to improve it, it is essential we have in place an assistant's statute. that is why the funding for this stays in reserve. i have been following the budget for over five years and the issue i have always focused on is transparency. the budgetary cycle each year is a repetition of the same exercise whereby the commission proposes x, the council then cuts it to y and parliament comes up with z. this process is flawed and does not always lead to the most efficient and effective use of resources. i believe the problems arise because we have no opportunity to appreciate the rationale behind the council's decisions to increase the budget lines or decrease them. these decisions are taken behind closed doors. if the council is serious in wanting parliament to support its approach, then it needs to make these decisions in the public arena. over the years, i have tried to improve our budgeting process, especially in relation to the way other institutions come up with and propose their budgets, by encouraging them to take on activity based budgeting, abb. i have to say that i am deeply disappointed that none of the other institutions have made reasonable efforts to adopt this method. i believe that since the commission has implemented abb, its budgeting has improved with greater transparency. having said that, there is considerable room for improvement even with the commission. what is urgently needed there is greater openness and a thorough evaluation of programmes, of successes and failures, to ensure that when programmes are re-targeted or re-evaluated, this is done on the basis of independent evaluation. there are areas where the commission is still failing to match policy priorities with an adequate level of resources. for example, my particular hobbyhorse is poverty eradication. it is not just the commission and the council that need to demonstrate greater transparency: it would benefit parliament too. in the last few years, we have seen the emergence of horizontal amendments. of course they simplify voting procedures, but they also create two problems. firstly, they blur the decisions taken by cobu and, secondly, the result is that fewer and fewer people are involved in decision-making, both within parliament and within the political groups. we have a unique opportunity to address these issues, namely in our deliberations on the next financial perspectives. we have the chance not just to look at the figures and headings, but also to make our internal processes clearer and simpler. the budget process is not just for the anoraks like myself and others who are sitting around here, everyone in this house is accountable to european citizens for the decisions this house makes on the budget. finally, i call on the council, the commission, parliament and the other institutions to take this opportunity to take radical action so that future budgets are simple and transparent. i would also like to add my thanks to commissioner schreyer. i would like to thank her for all her work in this area and wish her all the best for the future.
mr president, like other speakers in this debate, i should like to congratulate both rapporteurs. it is never an easy matter to represent this house on budgetary matters, whether in relation to the commission's or parliament's budget. my congratulations go out to them. of course, we are not at the end of the budget procedure but already in this big, first public debate we have come a considerable way. i should like quickly to cover a matter that we hold dear in my political group - the question of value for money. i should like to underline what commission schreyer referred to this afternoon, which is not often mentioned: we have a budget, a very strictly managed budget. in 1992, if i remember correctly, it covered 1.1% gdp and is now under 1% gdp, with savings in the running of the agriculture budget, for example. however, we have to keep particular lines in focus. mr titford mentioned the question of funding cultural organisations. we have asked for one of those lines to be in reserve precisely so that we can make sure that the funding goes to organisations that actually exist. but i would remind mr titford that even taking the amount of money that he referred to, it is less than 0.01% of the overall budget. therefore, to refuse to accept the budget on that basis is not really valid. i would have been more convinced if he had taken up the issue of funding for iraq where, as a political group last year, we asked for eur 500m to be put in, but everyone threw up their arms and said that we would not be able to find that sum of money. but we have found it because other lines have been able to be pilfered for it. it is always nice to be right in retrospect, but i would agree with ms dührkop that when funding a budget, we should clearly set the priorities that we wish to set as between the commission, the council and the european parliament, so that we do not find other objectives submerged within a broader political will. this will be highly necessary when we come to set the next financial perspective: we must not be found wanting in this particular area of external policy. secondly, linked to the matter of the financial perspective is one of the questions that we put down on the approval of posts. we would like to see whether there are going to be amendments available for the financial regulation to enable us to make sure that monies allocated are properly spent. therefore, we would like those amendments available to us before we come to final decisions on the financial perspective next year. lastly, we have often pioneered the idea of interinstituitional cooperation. i know that you have done your best, commissioner, while in office. but i believe that those of us in this house should remember that when we ask the commission to apply codes of conduct to high-level officials, to the way in which commissioners run their offices and so on, we should not ask the commission to apply standards that we ourselves refuse to apply. therefore, if we ask for a code of conduct we will have to apply it ourselves in the future to retain credibility.
mr president, if you ask our constituents what they want from europe, they will probably tell us to do less. but they will also tell us that what we do, we must do better. commissioner, if you ask them what sort of things they want us to do, they say 'the things that protect us, the things that help us'. nowhere is that more true than in the areas of public health: in terms of the safety of medicines; in terms of food safety; and in terms of protection from diseases and health emergencies. that is why i want to follow what mrs haug said about these agencies. some agencies are crucial to our citizens, and we are not providing them with sufficient funding to do the job we expect from them. the first of these i would pick out is the european medicines evaluation agency, where new drugs – orphan drugs, pharmacovigilance, herbal medicines and so on – are piled on top of its initial responsibilities, but the funding is static. i ask the house to support the amendment on orphan drugs that mrs haug has tabled on behalf of the environment committee, and to look very carefully at funding for the future in that area. the second example is the european food safety authority, which is expected to move to parma. it is also being expected to take on new responsibilities, not least in terms of health claims with regard to nutrient profiling and so on. we are not funding that adequately either. that can fall flat on its face, and if does so, then public confidence is lost. that is true of both the bodies i have mentioned. the third example is that of our new 'baby', the european centre for disease prevention and control, which is being set up in stockholm. in stockholm, it has already been found that costs are higher than anticipated. the value of the krona has shot up against the euro, and the costs of employment and premises are both having an impact. as a result it will not be possible to implement the expected recruitment policies. i ask that this should be looked into as well, because if we do not protect people from health emergencies and from the dramatic increase in health threats, the public will not thank us. if we wish to pay for this – and we should – then we need to look at the budget for subsidies for tobacco–growing. that would pay for all those agencies. moreover, if we removed these subsidies, we would also remove a health threat.
commission. it remains the case that the commission is not represented in the security council and i imagine that will continue even during the lifetime of the next commission, distinguished though it doubtless will be. my own personal view is that it would help to raise this question regularly in the security council. whether that position would be shared by say, china, or some other member states of the united nations, i am not sure. but if i may make a point about two countries which have a strong relationship with burma, china and india, i think they should both recognise that burma is a destabilising force in their region and the sooner they work with others to help achieve a more democratic regime there, the better off the whole region will be.
can i tempt my right honourable friend to agree that this house was right, and the foreign ministers were wrong, over the decision to permit burma to attend the asem summit? i should also like to ask him whether he would agree that banning the senior generals and others from entering the eu is only as successful as the policies of individual member states. we have not seen a very effective policy on zimbabwe, for instance. lastly, i ask the commissioner to concur that although aung san suu kyi – whose house arrest is unreasonable – is a crucial player in the burma affair, we must accept that many others are also languishing in prison, including many members of the burmese parliament.
commission. of course, the last point which the honourable member made is entirely correct. the focus is understandably on aung san suu kyi, both because of her record and because of her international status. she has been garlanded – alas, in absentia – for the extraordinary heroism she has shown over the years. there are, as she would say, very many who have been persecuted along with her, whom we also need to take account of, and that includes most of the leadership of the nld. secondly, the honourable member is entirely correct that the effectiveness of any sanctions – and certainly of travel bans – is entirely dependent on the extent to which member states implement those sanctions. he might not be surprised to hear me say that, during the last five years, i have sometimes seen a little distance opening up between what people advocate at european level and what happens in the member states. that is unfortunate. on his first question, we know parliament took a more vigorous view of asem and burmese participation in the council. i am not, at this late hour, going to pick an argument with the council, even when it is not present. i think it was understandably concerned that we should not allow the asem process, which has been reasonably valuable over the years, to be taken hostage by our concerns over burma. it is possible to take a different view on that. at least we were able to ensure that burma's human rights record was discussed in plenary session in asem and to toughen up the sanctions regime against burma in the council. it was a difficult matter of judgment and i can understand why parliament has its own view, but i hope parliament will understand that the council did not take the view it did because of pusillanimity.
thank you, commissioner, for the commitment you have made during your term of office to trying to ensure a better situation for the suffering people of burma. i just wanted to follow up on the last common position, where there is a distinct lack of clarity regarding the lists of companies. what exactly is meant by the measures that have been put in place? having said that – and it is clear from your response earlier on, commissioner, that we are not going to get much more clarity on this – could we have an assurance from you that the commission will look very closely and on a regular basis at the list of companies affected, and will update the list regularly, having monitored very carefully what will be necessary if this is going to be effective in any way?
commission. first of all, i thank mrs stihler for this important question. i fully share her concerns on this issue. foetal alcohol syndrome – fas – is a mental and physical disorder that can include mental retardation, brain dysfunction, physical abnormalities, learning disabilities and psychological disorders. fas occurs as the result of prenatal alcohol exposure. recent studies increasingly suggest that there may be no clearly safe drinking limit above zero alcohol for pregnant women. key elements to prevent fas are awareness–raising and consumer information. the commission is at present developing a working paper on a coordinated approach in europe to tackle alcohol–related harm. fas is one of the possible topics to be addressed in the paper. the commission is carefully studying the types of information that should be provided in addressing this problem. possible guidelines on these could be included in the commission's working paper on alcohol, which is planned for next year. the commission also intends to prepare a report on the application of council recommendations on alcohol and young people from 2001, which, among other things, will address the need for further action. in addition, the possibility of having a conference on alcohol next year, together with the who european office, is being explored. finally, i should like to emphasise that we should not forget the central role of our member states in tackling alcohol–related harm. an integrated approach needs concerted action by all stakeholders, including families, schools, employers, industry, advertisers and national regulators.
thank you for that answer, commissioner byrne. i also thank you for all the work that you have done over the past five years on the public health agenda. it is much appreciated. as you said, new research suggests that in some cases, one in a hundred babies could be affected. other research suggests that the figure is one in three hundred. in fact, according to friday's guardian, which dealt with what is happening in france, about 7 000 babies born there are thought to be mentally or physically damaged by passive consumption of alcohol in the womb. mr philippe douste-blazy, the french minister for health, said that fas was 'aside from genetic factors, the prime cause of mental retardation in children'. this is clearly a european issue and one that we have to take seriously. i hope that the commission's alcohol strategy will look at what is happening in the united states of america, where alcohol products are properly labelled with a health warning. commissioner, how can we make the possibility a reality?
commission. mental health is indeed a priority of the community’s public health policy and under the public health programme (2003-2008). under its first strand, dealing with health information, the working party on mental health has been created, bringing together project leaders and stakeholders. in the 2005 work plan, the focus of activities will be on promoting mental health and preventing mental disorders in children, adolescents and young people, based on improved data collection and analysis. there can be no doubt that human rights and humane treatment are fundamental to mental health practice. the commission welcomes the recent adoption of the council of europe’s recommendation concerning the protection of the human rights and dignity of persons with mental disorders. it also supports the un standard rules for the equalisation of opportunities for people with disabilities as well as the efforts to establish a un legally binding instrument to protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. the commission is fully engaged in the negotiations on this instrument. the commission is aware of the use of caged beds within psychiatric and social care facilities in hungary and slovenia as well as in slovakia and the czech republic and welcomes the report on this issue that was published in 2003 by the mental disability advocacy center. as a result of this report, the commission made enquiries about the exact position on the use of caged beds in these countries and drew the attention of the national authorities to the necessity to remedy this problem. according to information then received by the commission, it appeared that the situation was improving. it was reported that hungary has imposed a caged bed ban that will come fully into force at the beginning of 2005. in the czech republic, caged beds are reported as being gradually replaced. the commission has launched a study on conditions in institutions in all the 25 member states in order to establish the situation that currently exists, with a focus on disabled persons. the findings of this study, undertaken by inclusion europe, were presented in brussels on 22 and 23 october. the study confirmed that caged beds, or netted beds - as they are also called - are indeed being used in several member states, including old and new member states. furthermore, the study showed that the question of caged beds cannot be dissociated from the more general context of living conditions in large residential institutions. these conditions are sometimes unacceptable and do not respect the most elementary requirements of human respect and dignity. the study found that community-based residential services provide opportunities, but not guarantees, for better outcomes. from 2005, the commission will produce a biennial public report on the overall situation of people with disabilities in the european union. the report is intended to provide a useful tool for all disability decision- makers by providing accurate, dynamic and up-to-date information on the situation of people with disabilities throughout the european union. the commission salutes any appropriate efforts to make mental health systems as humane as possible. we also congratulate dr pfeiffer on his nomination as european hero by time magazine.
there are not many of us here, but i hope that the answer given by mr byrne, our commissioner, will be widely read. i would like to place on the record our thanks as a parliament for his work for public health over the last five years, particularly in the area of mental health and the way he has ensured that this issue has risen up the agenda. i invite him, as a last clarion call, to repeat that inhumane treatment in mental health is not to be tolerated in this union. that includes such things as caged beds, which should not be a part of any country's policy. as he says, rights and dignity are what we seek. rights and dignity are what he has talked about. rights and dignity must be the future of european mental health policy.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, in view of current events, liberals and democrats in this house will have enjoyed the president–in–office's deadpan presentation of a council agenda of almost baroque design. the delivery of his speech at 33 r.p.m. was quite exquisite. this council will work through the findings of the kok report on reviving the lisbon agenda. advance sightings of that report suggest a surprisingly coherent piece of work. my group welcomes the prospect of a leaner, more focused redirection of the lisbon agenda. i notice, incidentally, that the kok report tempers our rhetoric a little: instead of 'the most competitive knowledge–based economy in the world', it talks of 'among the best in the world'. i do not take this as a lessening of ambition. the focus for the lisbon agenda should not be international benchmarking. the goal is delivering sustainable prosperity and a better quality of life for europe's citizens in a way that reflects the innate potential and unique dynamic of european life, not crossing some notional finish line ahead of china or the united states. the kok report rightly stresses the need for european member states to coordinate better. we cannot run a single market without a single mindset. how many european states are setting their national economic agendas with lisbon in mind? not many. not enough. what matters this weekend is that the kok report does not become a substitute for concerted action by the council. welcome it; approve it; restate your commitment to it, but for the good of the european union, make it real. the council will also address the multiannual agenda for justice and home affairs, the 'tampere-plus', of which mr verheugen spoke. the ambition is to restate the broad scope of justice and home affairs policy in the european union. liberals and democrats welcome that, but europe has changed since tampere and this new agenda must reflect that. europe has never had a greater need of a balanced, liberal approach to migration and asylum. the evident desire in some national capitals to outsource our international legal duties to refugees and asylum seekers to clapboard states outside our borders must be resisted. 'tampere-plus' also means 'after-madrid'. the fight against terrorism and the urgent need for better judicial and police cooperation must be priorities. liberals and democrats will be particularly vigilant in ensuring that measures to make us safer in europe do not erode our fundamental freedoms. the union will soon have new legislation on procedural safeguards and the rights of defendants, and we remind the council that those rights are non-negotiable. we also want a commitment to a new third-pillar data protection instrument to guarantee europe-wide data protection for europe's citizens. these rights must form the centrepiece of the new agenda. yesterday i referred to the council as the invisible elephant. now the elephant is here, and i hope that it will listen to what this house says today, reflect on our rights and the way we choose to exercise them and respect the prerogatives of this chamber, whatever happens during the vote today. (applause)
mr president, the european council should understand that the british people have never voted to be governed by former communists, especially those who helped to enforce the soviet occupation of eastern europe. neither do we want unelected commissioners who hide their murky involvement in the corrupt use of public money, tax evasion and bribery. we demand a duty of care from our government, which is why, last week, i gave detailed information about institutionalised corruption in this place to the serious fraud office in london and i called on the british government to withhold all future funding of the european union under the terms of the vienna convention. no british parliament has ever voted to pass british taxpayers' public money to third parties who cannot be trusted.
mr president, i welcome this debate, which takes place only two weeks before the european council discusses wim kok's report on the lisbon agenda. this is the european union's most pressing issue. the health of the european economy is a matter of deep concern to millions of our citizens who remain without a job. it is of vital concern to future competitiveness that europe will need to deal with the twin challenges of major demographic change and the competition that we are increasingly facing from china, india and other emerging economies. in july when prime minister balkenende addressed parliament, he said that europe's economy has 'stiff joints and makes little use of its head'. this makes our competitors too quick and too smart for us. anyone who looks objectively at the developments sees that europe is losing ground, even in periods of economic recovery. these were wise words and i applaud the priority which the presidency is giving to the economic sclerosis that affects significant areas of this continent. if we do not push radical economic reform, then europe will fail. this does not apply only to our current generation: it will also leave a legacy of failure for those who come after us. mr prodi claimed earlier this week that the reason for the failure of the lisbon process is the lack of majority voting in the european union. what nonsense! the failure lies in the lack of political will to pursue the reforms that are plainly needed. some people are trying to recast lisbon to place more emphasis on the social and environmental goals at the expense of the hard economic decisions that are required. it is no surprise to me that the nations of europe that are producing economic growth are those that have pushed the necessary reforms. no-one denies that these reforms were painful, but they were necessary. it seems to me that parliament, the commission and the kok working group all agree that real progress needs to be made. the question is whether europe has the courage to move to action, rather than just continuing to express words.
mr president, i am pleased that both the president-in-office and commissioner verheugen stressed that the kok report is not an end-point but a starting point for the mid-term review of lisbon to be concluded at next year's spring summit. i am glad about that because the early drafts i have seen of the kok report would be an inappropriate conclusion for a mid-term review as the balance is wrong. i disagree with mr evans on this point. quite correctly, the report makes much of the need for improved growth and competitiveness, but you have to read well into it before you come across the notion that social policy can be a productive factor. it is a productive factor. we need improved competitiveness to maintain our european social model, but that model is a productive factor in itself for achieving competitiveness. rather than talking in grand terms, let me give a specific example. i read recently that in the new member states, as many as 40% of workers are affected by ill-health or injury related to work. the figure in the former 15 member states is much lower, at 25%. i think that is in large part due to the comprehensive framework of health and safety laws we have had in place in europe for over a decade. we need to bear that in mind. that is social policy as a productive factor, contributing to competitiveness, contributing to quality at work, quality jobs, and maintaining people's active involvement in the labour market. let us maintain the lisbon balance overall.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, today this house on the river rhine has grown in stature. its will was tested, its will has prevailed. at no time did we ask for anything more than is our right. we asked for no prerogative that is not laid down in the law of europe. we asked for our considered judgment to be treated with respect. at every stage, our willingness to stand by that judgment was doubted, mistrusted and tested. it was tested to the edge of political crisis until the price of exerting our will became so high that only the unwalked ground of political crisis stretched ahead of us, and none of us wanted to venture onto it. however, our will and our willingness to stand by our judgment prevailed. nobody in this chamber seeks confrontation for its own sake. we value the tension that exists between our institutions, because the ability to turn that tension to mutual benefit is the sign of our institutions' maturity. mr barroso, you suggested yesterday that it was anti–european to vote against your commission. i do not honestly think you believe that. you know that when pro–europeans criticise your commission, they are not doing the work of euroscepticism, but the very opposite: today, euroscepticism loses because the voice of democracy in europe has risen by an octave and has made itself heard in every national capital and beyond. (applause)you know that liberals and democrats in this house challenged you and your commission, because we want it to be stronger than you were given the chance to build it – stronger so that the european union is stronger. mr barroso, i restate now that the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe supports you. we voted for you in the knowledge that your commitment to the european union matches our own. i say again today what i said yesterday: if our house is weak, then so is yours, because if the governments of europe do not respect us, they will not respect you or the independence of your college. our strength is your strength. (applause)you have a chance to rebuild a commission that can win the support of this house. work fast! you know the will of this chamber. through resignation, reshuffle or withdrawal, you can come back to us with a new commission, confident that we hold you in high regard as a committed european and a president of the european commission with a capacity for great work. yesterday i spoke of an elephant in this chamber, and it is here again. once again i call on the council to reflect on the rights of this house and on the way in which it chooses to exercise them. liberals and democrats call on the council to respect the prerogatives of this house and the independence of the commission, which it is charged with approving. we call on you to reflect on your own responsibility for the impasse at which we found ourselves. (applause)we will work with you to surmount that impasse. over the rich summit dinner on friday, let there be food for thought. mr barroso, on behalf of my group, i commit the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe to working with you to see a commission approved in november. i thank you for your candour and commitment. i repeat that this house has today grown in stature: our will was tested and our will has prevailed. (loud applause from the centre and left)
mr president, on a point of order; mr barroso showed his disdain for parliament yesterday by turning up late and not apologising. he has now demonstrated his incompetence by having no proposals to put before parliament today. any self-respecting parliament would now vote no confidence in the ...
mr president, this morning parliament's agenda was changed. does this change affect the whole of the day's agenda, or just part of it, and who decided on the change?
on behalft of the group.– mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent report and his insightful work into eu-india relations; i endorse the report as it currently stands. however, speaking as chair of the parliament's south asia delegation, i would like to go further. i am extremely keen that we develop a meaningful, strategic partnership. my hope for the fifth eu-india summit on 8 november is that it is a landmark one; one that propels the relationship between the world's largest democracy and ourselves – the second-largest – into the twenty-first century. this can only happen if both sides have a strong will to turn dialogue and statements into a tangible reality. therefore, i ask the council to reflect on why, despite many proposals and summits in the past, very little progress has been made on this issue. could it be that we have not had a clear vision of where we want our relations to be in five or ten years' time? mr nicolaï and commissioner verheugen outlined a long list of areas where we need cooperation. but i believe we need to prioritise, because having this vast range of areas means we cannot focus on what we want to achieve. the list is also missing some crucial priorities: one of our main priorities, for example, is realising the lisbon goals, which also happens to be one of india's top priorities. their objective, like ours, is to create a knowledge­based society. we have the same goals and we can learn from each other, but we need to have the means to translate the wish-list into actual achievements if we are to ensure that happens. we also need to ensure that there are adequate resources in place. i am keen to see the commission communication creating a tangible difference on the ground and a partnership that allows the benefits of the enlarged union to be reflected in the new neighbourhood policy. i am leading a parliamentary delegation to new delhi next week and i will be urging our indian counterparts to take action in the same areas – to prioritise, to produce a document – with a view to improving eu-india relations. (applause)
on behalft of the group.– mr president, in his first statement in july, mr barroso said that we have to choose one priority, and that priority must be employment. this does not seem to have transmitted itself to this particular committee, which recommends upgrading eu-india relations by outsourcing and insourcing. i am sorry the rapporteur did not have the time to tell us how much insourcing there has been, but there has been a great deal of outsourcing. in britain alone, most of the banks, the insurance companies and even the national health service have outsourced. my point concerns 3se, which was set up by the eu and the indian government. on its website it goes a little further. according to the website, the value of outsourcing is in increased working days. it invites employers to harness the time difference of three-and-a-half to five-and-a-half hours to pack in more hours. so there are no commission hang-ups then about the working-time directive, as long it is the poor exploited workers of india who are involved! the rapporteur tells us that we must help delhi fight against poverty, but would he just tell his own organisation what it is doing to help? mr barroso, as i said at the outset, says that he wants to boost employment in the eu. this report does just the opposite.
council. mr president, i very much agree with all those who made critical remarks about the situation and expressed concern about developments. i also agree with those who said it is important to try to find ways to improve the situation, especially by direct contact with civil society. i will reply on one issue, which was mentioned by mr wiersma, mr szymański, mrs andrikienė and others: namely russia and the role that we and russia could play. we regularly discuss with russia the situation in belarus. it is an important country for russia and for the eu. unfortunately, the russian and eu approaches to improving the situation in belarus differ. russia understands eu concern about the human rights situation in general and about more specific issues such as the situation of the media and the closure of the european humanities university. however, the russians think that democratic change can best be promoted by involving belarus more in the international community. as i tried to explain before, our approaches are really different, but you can be sure that where possible we are working with russia on this important issue and trying to do what we can.
council. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to discuss with you the situation in ukraine before the presidential elections, and the state of relations between the european union and ukraine. the ukrainian people stand at the crossroads of very important presidential elections. these elections will determine the direction ukraine will take over the next four years. at this important time, the european union has four clear messages for the ukrainian people. the first message is simple: the eu is following the developments in ukraine very closely. since we are neighbours, we know we matter to each other. however, this does not mean that we always think the same way. in fact, certain developments within ukraine are followed with a certain degree of concern by the eu. ukraine’s track record in the areas of democratisation, human rights, upholding the rule of law, and the reform process, is mixed at best. to give just a few examples, there still remain questions about the disappearance of a ukrainian journalist, the current process of constitutional reform and the virtual absence of a pluralist media. the eu regularly conveys its concerns to the ukrainian authorities, for example during the recent eu-ukraine summit, but also during other political dialogue meetings and through our embassies in kiev. we are therefore following very closely and with particular attention the electoral campaign in ukraine in the run-up to the elections on 31 october. we are pleased that ukraine has generously provided invitations for international monitoring of the elections by odihr. many eu member states will send observers and the odihr findings will be a very important reference point for the eu. but we already have some concerns about the electoral process. i will give a few examples. there are clear indications that there is a biased media coverage. as you all know, it is essential to provide all political candidates with equal access to the media. direct pressure on independent media has been growing in ukraine, making it extremely difficult for the electoral process to be covered by a pluralistic and independent mass media. only independent and free media coverage of the electoral process can ensure free, fair and transparent elections. furthermore, there are reports of political pressure against voters, coercing them to take part in rallies and campaign events. other reports mention administrative harassment of the opposition, use of administrative resources to obstruct presidential candidates from campaigning by depriving them of campaign materials, the use of state money, property and equipment for campaign purposes, and so on. we hope that these incidents will not threaten a credible and democratic election outcome. the ukrainian government has to ensure this. as i said, we appreciate the ukrainian invitation to monitor the election campaign and the elections, but foreign observers alone are not enough. these are ukrainian elections, for the ukrainian people, needing ukrainian observers. we regret, therefore, that independent, non-partisan observers are not allowed to monitor the presidential elections as well. we have communicated this message to the ukrainian government through our council conclusions and through the declarations of an earlier presidency. we have also used our various high-level contacts to get this message across. and the council will remain active, not just during the first round of elections, but also at the possible second round later in november. we hope that this message will convince the ukrainian government to respect democratic norms more strictly. there should be no manipulation of the election process to the advantage of one particular candidate and to the detriment of others. free and fair elections and respect of democratic standards are essential if ukraine really wants a rapprochement with the eu. the second message we have for the ukrainian people is closely linked to the first one: ukraine matters to the eu and vice versa, especially since enlargement. several of the new member states of the eu have strong economic, cultural and historical ties to ukraine. since enlargement, ukraine is now a direct neighbour of the eu. the enlargement process has increased the importance of ukraine to the eu. moreover, the knowledge which the new member states have enables the eu to conduct a more active and effective policy. but our relationship is not just about economics, culture and history. ukraine is also an important political actor. its close relationship with russia and its role in the un, illustrated by numerous ukrainian contributions to peace-keeping operations, are clear proof. our cooperation, therefore, in the area of foreign policy should be developed further. esdp is one area, and the fact that a framework agreement for ukraine's participation in eu crisis management operations will be signed soon is testimony to this. this brings me to the third message. the eu has the right instruments to conduct an effective policy towards ukraine and intensify our relationship. first and foremost there is the partnership and cooperation agreement, which comes with ministerial troikas, political dialogues and numerous expert-level working groups. the pca will remain the cornerstone of eu-ukraine cooperation. furthermore, i hope that we will soon be able to adopt the action plan under the european neighbourhood policy. this action plan is an eu-ukraine co-production and it will offer concrete objectives for the coming years. as president kuchma stated at the last eu-ukraine summit, we need to commit ourselves to implementing what should be a plan of action and not merely a plan of intention. and the eu is committed to working on this in close cooperation with any candidate who wins in free, fair and transparent elections. finally, our fourth message: eu-ukraine cooperation will not always be easy, but it is in our mutual interests that the long-term trend is uphill, not downhill. if one listens to the comments and opinions of opinion-makers and politicians, both in the eu and in ukraine, one often gets the impression that the eu-ukraine relationship is sub-optimal at best. ukraine wants the eu to offer more: the prospect of eu membership, better treatment in the area of free movement, etc. and some say that if the eu does not do more for ukraine, kiev will automatically drift into the arms of moscow. the single economic area is often quoted as evidence that this is already happening. furthermore, the conduct of the upcoming presidential elections could possibly cast a shadow on our relations. here lies a task for the ukrainian government and its people. but i believe that, even though our cooperation may sometimes be difficult, the long-term trend will be positive. the trend simply is not towards isolationism one, but towards integration. on 14 september the ukrainian parliament held a debate on eu-ukraine relations. at that meeting a large majority of the parliamentarians supported eu integration. the joint action plan will be testimony of our own desire to enhance the quality of our relationship. i would like to conclude that it is time for the ukrainian people to make a choice. our message is clear, both on the elections and on the future of eu-ukraine relations. election time is always hard and we wish the ukrainian people every wisdom. we hope they make the right choice: a choice for democracy and development, for justice and for the rule of law. and let us hope the circumstances will be such that they can make that choice. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i too would like to begin by recalling the enormous importance of ukraine as a strategic partner of the european union. as its immediate neighbour, with close economic, social and human contacts, ukraine has a very special significance for lasting stability, security and prosperity on our european continent. ukraine is an important partner for security and stability in the entire region. ukraine is undoubtedly part of european culture and our common european history. the european parliament, in its resolution of november 2003 on the european neighbourhood policy, reaffirmed that ukraine like any other democratic and market economy state in europe should have the opportunity to apply for membership of the european union one day, provided that the relevant conditions are met. this is not on our agenda at the moment, but nevertheless, in the past few months, i have worked with my staff to develop a medium-term and concrete perspective for the neighbours of the enlarged european union - the european neighbourhood policy, which minister nicolaï has already mentioned. a concrete and individual action plan has been developed in close consultation with the ukrainian government. i shall shortly be submitting it to the commission and immediately afterwards to the council and parliament. the commission has already indicated that the neighbourhood policy is a substantial and qualitatively new offer for ukraine and its citizens. we should not forget that we have already experienced a significant intensification of our cooperation with ukraine in recent years, especially since the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement in 1998. various forms of dialogue have emerged, including an annual summit. as part of our partnership agreement, the european parliament has also developed its own intensive dialogue framework with the ukrainian parliament. i am very pleased that the new chairman of the european parliament's delegation to ukraine, mr siwiec, comes from a country which is a direct neighbour of ukraine, namely poland. open dialogue between partners should be a matter of course. nevertheless, it is rather regrettable that the upcoming presidential elections in ukraine this coming weekend have created a - to put it mildly - considerable need for criticism. i am sorry to say that i cannot but agree with my colleague, mr nicolaï, when he expresses his deepest concern at the looming failures and irregularities in the electoral campaign, particularly in the freedom of the media. please don't misunderstand me, ladies and gentlemen. this has very little to do with the debate we have just had on belarus. the progress made by ukraine towards a democratic state is beyond doubt, and it should be acknowledged that this path has been particularly long for the successor states of the former soviet union. real political parties are emerging. civil society is developing and a number of non-governmental organisations are active. in close cooperation with the council of europe and the osce, and with the substantial support of the european commission, rules and mechanisms have been established and reformed to guarantee democratic and rule of law procedures. unfortunately, many of these democratic and rule of law rules of the game in ukraine are still only on paper. this is probably the basic insight of the current situation in ukraine with regard to the primary elections. yes, we are currently experiencing one of the most heavily-banded campaigns in this country. this can of course also be seen as a positive sign that there is political competition. but it is also true that there is still a lot to be desired in terms of political culture. we should not forget that this is a significant difference compared to other countries in the region. after all, we are dealing with a real election campaign in ukraine at the moment between several real competitors. but i would also like to make it clear that we cannot lower our standards for a commitment to common values and democratic principles. it is a basic prerequisite for the implementation of our future, very ambitious action plan in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, that we commit ourselves to shared values and democratic principles. it is unacceptable that the authorities and other state bodies interfere in the election campaign at all levels and in all possible forms. it is also unacceptable that not only opposition politicians but also independent citizens' initiatives are increasingly subjected to repression. the first interim reports of the election observers of the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights paint a rather gloomy picture of even a semi-neutral coverage of the nationwide electronic media. despite all the criticism and skepticism, i remain confident that the presence of election observers can bring the elections closer to a democratic and legitimate process. the european union has tried to help the central electoral commission, as well as non-governmental organisations and journalists, to play their part in the electoral process through a number of projects. the european parliament will be grateful to participate in the osce international election observation mission with observers, as will the eu member states and the european commission. the responsibility of those who will then have to report to us from ukraine will be very, very great, because much will depend on it for what we do in the future with ukraine. the elections are, without a doubt, a crucial test of the state of democracy in ukraine. we should make an appeal to the public authorities, the media, the political parties and, last but not least, the candidates to make the remaining days before the elections a decisive moment of democracy, the rule of law and fairness. the european commission is ready to implement with the new president the intensive cooperation envisaged under the new neighbourhood policy without delay. but we are not indifferent to how this election is won. i would like to conclude by repeating once again that the basis for the intensified partnership we want with ukraine is a commitment to shared values and democratic principles and a convincing, clear policy to make these values and principles a reality in everyday political life. (applause from the centre)
on behalft of the group.– mr president, the election schedule for this sunday is critical for the future of ukraine. unlike other former soviet countries, the outcome is still genuinely uncertain and contrasts markedly with the election two weeks ago in belarus, where a massive fraud was perpetrated on the people of that country. nevertheless, so far in the campaign, there have been widespread allegations of bias by the authorities against the opposition front-runner, mr yushchenko, ranging from the use of administrative resources dedicated to backing the incumbent prime minister yanukovych as a presidential candidate, to bizarre allegations of kgb-style poisoning with ricin. of more concern has been the harassment of opposition print media and impeded access to state and private tv coverage. there are also allegations that there have been numerous paper or technical candidates submitted by backers of mr yanukovych in order to distort the composition of the local election committees. in fairness, such tactics occur everywhere, are legal, and the government of ukraine would have faced lukashenka-style criticism if these candidates had been rejected. there are also concerns that the polling stations set up in the russian federation will be very hard to monitor independently. also, i was personally concerned to hear last weekend that two serving policemen were found to be part of the mob that physically attacked a pro-yushchenko rally. on behalf of the ppe-de group, i welcome the government of ukraine's invitation for me to attend – with six other meps – as an observer in kiev. i call for restraint from any action to distort the true will of the people to elect a president of their choosing. ukraine now has an opportunity to demonstrate its commitments to free, fair and transparent elections as part of the european community of nations, where it truly belongs. (applause from the right)
i need advice. i am sure that we will continue to talk intensively, both you and we, and also among ourselves, about the steps to be taken in the run-up to december and the steps to be taken afterwards, as to whether or not to start negotiations with turkey, and at what time and in what manner. perhaps i can take the three questions together with the following response. the commission has indicated - and i agree with your comments - that, as far as the political criteria are concerned, the race is not yet won, the matter is not yet settled. the commission has indicated that negotiations with turkey could be opened under certain conditions. one of those conditions is the entry into force of the criminal law, among other things, which has also been requested, in the manner indicated by the commission. it is very important, and i hear your questions, that the commission should state that, if negotiations with turkey are opened, political criteria will also be kept under very close scrutiny. in fact, if there are unfavourable developments - at least that is the commission's suggestion - for example in this particular political area which you are now expressing concern about, it should be possible to apply a so-called emergency brake in the form of suspending further negotiations. that would be a further step forward in the way we conduct accession procedures compared with previous accession procedures. i am convinced that these proposals and suggestions from the commission will at least be a good start in responding to the concerns expressed here and in many other places when we take a decision in december.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. can non-dutch people understand me? the council would like to inform the honourable member that the european union has responded very quickly, mainly through echo, to the recent flooding in bangladesh and the northern indian states of assam and bihar, providing assistance worth eur 4 million. the council invites it to address the commission. the commission will be able to provide it with detailed information on the matter, particularly as regards technical and financial assistance.
may i thank the council for its very brief response, though i had been hoping for a little more. the floods in bangladesh, and i have seen them, come nearly every year, but this year have caused some usd 2.2 billion damage. this is a huge amount of flood damage: the european union has very kindly sent eur 4 million in aid. i know that the netherlands, with its long experience of beating back floodwaters at home, already supports considerable projects in bangladesh, but i wonder what more can be done in the future. some 36 million people have been flooded, which is more than the population of the netherlands, belgium, luxembourg, denmark and ireland put together. flooding in the low countries of europe is not permitted to get out of hand: the dutch government has made great efforts to fight back. they do a great deal already in bangladesh, but i wondered if we could know a bit more of what the plans are for the future.
i need advice. president. - the separation of church and state and the secular nature of the turkish state are more strictly regulated in legislation and regulations than in some of the present member states. there is no objection to that in principle, nor is it called that by the commission. the debate we have just had is different, namely as regards the practice, the situation and the freedom of religion and the problems which have just been discussed in the light of your questions. the commission is studying this very carefully and very specifically and, if it is decided to open negotiations, it will continue to monitor these points very closely after the start of those negotiations.
i was quite alarmed by the implications of this question and, indeed, by the contribution we heard from the other side of the house. the honourable member mentioned protecting the secular character of the european union, and, in its response, the council referred to the position in turkey, where there is a separation of church and state. nothing could further emphasise the european union's determination to commit itself to being fully secular in nature than the accession of turkey, a large country with a large number of muslim people. yes, turkey presents challenges for the european union. yes, there are issues to be answered on human rights and a whole range of other aspects. but i do not believe that religion should be part of this. i, for one, welcome turkey's accession to the european union in the course of time.
i need advice. i understand the concern and the question of the honourable member, but as i said at the outset, this is not within our powers and capabilities as the presidency or as the council. in that sense, i must disappoint her because i cannot promise her that i would want to discuss this either. this is primarily a matter of formal position, but also in a political sense we as the presidency do not feel called upon to address this important principle of subsidiarity in this way, where not everything is always decided here but also at national level.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. the various competent law enforcement agencies of the member states, including the police, customs and coastguard, have for years been doing everything possible to prevent the importation of illegal drugs into the territory of the member states. it is of the utmost importance to prevent these substances from reaching the territory of the member states. the framework decision on illicit drug trafficking, which will be formally adopted by the council shortly, gives the member states' law enforcement authorities the scope they need to deal effectively with the importation of illicit drugs and a whole range of crimes. in this context, the european union's drugs strategy, which is currently being negotiated in the council, should be mentioned. the priority given to implementing existing european legal instruments which focus on the fight against drug trafficking, such as the european convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, which provides for the establishment of joint investigation teams, was agreed. on 2 june the commission published a communication on the strengthening of police and customs cooperation in the european union. the council's response is contained in the draft multiannual programme for the area of freedom, security and justice, the so-called hague programme, which will be adopted by the european council on 5 november. for some ten years now, the customs authorities of the member states have organised joint annual operations to investigate the smuggling of drugs, including ecstasy, by air, land and sea. an operation on ecstasy smuggling by air is planned for the near future, involving more than 20 member states.
i would agree with mr crowley, but differ slightly on the matter of ecstasy smuggling. this is a major problem for london, the area i represent, where there is a lot of ecstasy smuggling. my question to the president-in-office, though, relates to the eu drugs strategy within the framework of justice and home affairs, which the dutch presidency has prioritised. a drugs strategy report has begun its progress through parliament. given the experience of the dutch with regard to drugs prevention and drugs policy, what does the presidency propose to do to combat drug smuggling?
the question is about strengthening cooperation between police agencies and coastguard services. after 9/11 in the united states, the americans discovered there was a lack of cooperation between the fbi and the cia. what is the presidency doing, or what proposals does it have, to improve the quality of trust between different agencies within member states and across borders? as the president–in–office knows well – although i do not think he is listening to me ­ the problem is trust between the agencies. we do not trust each other, and therefore there is no cooperation. president–in–office, what are you proposing to do about improving trust between these agencies?
mr president, i should just like to point out that the clock says it is 6.56 p.m. the agenda says question time finishes at 7 p.m. therefore, surely, question time cannot be closed?
mr president, as chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, i should like it confirmed – for the record – that all the letters of assessment on the commissioners–designate have been forwarded to mr barroso, president–designate of the commission.
mr president, i am delighted we are having this debate, as it is a crucial environmental issue, which is already of great concern to many people. these new, much more powerful sonars - one of the loudest sound systems ever devised - have sparked an epidemic of strandings, internal bleeding, deafness and lung damage wherever they have been tested. a single blast of the new technology can affect animals across 3.8 million km2 of water. that is why it is simply not good enough that the commission responded to a written question of mine last november, simply saying that this type of technology needs to be used with caution. this type of technology cannot be used with caution because of the huge impact it has. at one hundred miles away from the source of the sound, the noise can still cause shearing of the tissues in the air sack behind whales' and dolphins brains. i listened with great interest to the commissioner's introduction, and i heard a lot about more research but nothing about calling for a moratorium. in july, the scientific committee of the international whaling commission unanimously issued a strong statement of concern about intense underwater noise, citing what it calls compelling evidence that entire populations of whales and other marine mammals are potentially threatened by it. so do not tell us that we need more research before we call for a moratorium - we do not: there is plenty of evidence that we need to act. i would strongly urge members to vote against the amendment tabled by the ppe group, which seeks to weaken the resolution by calling upon member states to adopt geographic restrictions in sensitive marine habitats. there is simply no scientific justification for this amendment. mrs korhola gave a very nice speech - it is a pity she has now left the chamber - but she did not explain why she has put her name to this very same amendment, which would gut and weaken the very resolution which she claims to support. given that a single blast of this low-frequency technology can affect animals across 3.8 million km2 of water and that little is known about their migratory patterns, geographic restrictions are not appropriate. they will not work. i urge colleagues to reject that amendment.
mr president, i represent the south-west of england, where in recent years an increasing number of dead dolphins have been washed ashore. in 2002 and 2003, over 300 dolphins and porpoises were washed ashore and their carcasses could be seen on beaches. because of recent research published in nature magazine in october, attention has focused on naval sonars. however, the absolute priority for groups concerned with such sea mammal deaths in the south-west of england and many other parts of the country is to put a stop to indiscriminate pair trawling in the english channel as soon as possible. we are impatiently awaiting eu action on this. my constituents simply cannot understand why action has not already been taken on the basis of the precautionary principle, which the commission so often cites in support of its initiatives. we want more research to be carried out on the effect of naval sonars. i note that the verts/ale group is moving an amendment saying that it wants a moratorium because it has been proved that naval sonars are dangerous. that is not actually true. the research published in nature says: 'the incidence of such cases of dead mammals during a naval sonar exercise indicates that acoustic factors could be important.' nature magazine says that further investigation is needed. we know that we have to be realistic. green meps support the idea of an immediate restriction or ban on such sonars, but the british navy, and no doubt others with less accessible websites, are about to conduct trials on a new low-frequency, high-intensity sonar s2087 from type 23 frigates. the ministry of defence admits that there is an acoustic effect that might damage sea mammals. for that reason, it will introduce mitigating and monitoring measures to protect marine mammals. for example, we would prefer to see avoidance of the use of sonar in marine breeding grounds adopted as part of a common eu strategy. blocking the use of such sonars in any eu waters would deprive those who defend us of a useful early-warning tool that we might well need in a dangerous world. it is a difficult balance, but we believe that our amendment to the text delivers the best possible solution. if it is not adopted many of us will, with great regret, have to abstain or vote against this motion.
mr president, we clearly have a very serious problem with marine life and possible links with naval sonar. i therefore welcome the thrust of the resolution and the need to do something. however, i cannot accept the idea of a moratorium. there are security issues, as we have heard today. we need time to develop alternative technologies. i welcome what you said, madam commissioner. we should wait for the expert study and then see what action can be taken in january. in the meantime, we have to keep monitoring this serious issue, about which many citizens are concerned.
in writing. i welcome this timely decision to upgrade the eu-india relationship to a strategic partnership. a vote for this report is a vote for practical steps towards mutual respect and an open dialogue on all matters, including those that need work. i welcome the concrete steps this report includes to:1. continue to promote a strong trade relationship and work with india to better understand the global economy and, more specifically, to understand the benefits for both economies with regard to outsourcing and insourcing-related matters. 2. pay close attention to the india-pakistan dialogue, including the kashmir issue; welcoming the dialogue and hoping for a fruitful conclusion; and paying attention to the need to develop and secure mutual trust and confidence between these two major countries,3. maintain and improve co-operation in development policies to help india meet the millennium development goals.
mr president, many people – including some members of this house, such as my colleague mr van orden – have worked for a long time on the humanitarian issue of overcoming the harmful effects of anti-personnel landmines. our armed forces have fully supported this work. their judgment, which we share, is that cluster munitions and anti-tank mines should not be regarded in the same way as anti-personnel landmines. at this time, our armed forces need to retain the unique capabilities of these weapons in their armouries. indeed, military authorities estimate that if cluster munitions were banned, disproportionately powerful munitions would be required to achieve the same effect. such weapons might pose a greater risk to civilians during conflict and would increase the levels of devastation caused. in regard to the post-conflict effects of cluster munitions and anti-tank mines, much progress has been made in geneva on dealing with the explosive remnants of war. work continues to improve the technical aspects of certain weapons so that they do not continue to be a threat to local civilians after a conflict has ended. these initiatives are spearheaded by a group of governmental experts who are mindful of the need for the right balance between humanitarian concerns and military utility. regarding certain weapons, it is well understood that the armed forces of our nations, and those of nato allies, are the most conscious of the need to protect our civilian populations, avoid collateral damage and ensure that dangers to our own troops are minimised. the motion before this house, tabled by the left, fails to take into account such considerations and is factually incorrect. its provisions are unrealistic and, consequently, it would not be helpful in tackling the problems caused by explosive remnants of war. on a positive note, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the commission and the member states on the support they have provided for global mine action against anti-personnel landmines, mine clearance and assistance to victims. i would encourage them to focus their efforts to end this threat to civilian populations from the explosive remnants of war and anti-personnel landmines by 2010 at the latest, and not be sidetracked by other issues. i urge members to support the resolution.
mr president, there are two main concerns highlighted in this resolution: the denial of fair trials and the maltreatment of prisoners. we reiterate two underlying commitments against which these concerns must be evaluated. firstly, one of the prime duties of democracies is to protect their citizens with resolve and to fight terrorism firmly and tenaciously. secondly, both the eu and the united states have to ensure the right to freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. if either of us fights a war on terror in a way that breaches these fundamental principles, the terrorists have won. consequently, this parliament demands that both eu and non-eu prisoners at guantanamo bay - including five of my london constituents - be tried, without delay, in a fair and public hearing and by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal – not by military commissions. the us supreme court has said that the protection provided under the us constitution applies, but the present administration is frustrating implementation of that judgment. what real action is the eu taking to convince the us in its – and our – own interest to obey the rule of law? would this not be easier if the uk was not also holding prisoners without charge or trial? with regard to the well-documented harsh and coercive treatment at guantanamo bay, abu graib and elsewhere, what is happening to morality as well as legality? some, including me, would say that torture is taking place. internees at belmarsh in england are literally being driven mad by indefinite incarceration. the former uk ambassador to uzbekistan has highlighted how reliance is being place on torture-induced evidence. are these the standards that we wish to accept? i look forward to hearing how the eu is acting forcefully to stop this moral and legal rot. (applause)
mr president, nearly 200 people, including five british nationals, have been released since the prison was created. this means that all these people were held against their will for up to two years, without being told why. they were tortured, denied access to family, friends or legal representation, and in the end they were not charged with any crime. how can any civilised democratic society not only justify but also condone this? if a country like iran, for instance, did this to an american citizen, i am sure george bush would be the first to condemn it. one of my constituents, moazzam begg, who is detained in guantanamo bay, wrote a letter to his family which got through uncensored. it details a string of abuses. this, along with other evidence from former prisoners and people who have worked there, paints a disturbing picture of what is going on. there must be an immediate independent investigation into the allegations. all the detainees at guantanamo bay have been held in unacceptable legal limbo for far too long.
mr president, on 28 october three united nations aid workers were kidnapped in afghanistan. one of the captives is from the philippines, one is from kosovo, and one, annetta flanigan, is from my constituency in northern ireland. they have been held captive ever since. one can only imagine the trauma that these captives and their families have gone through and are still experiencing. i would ask that you, mr president, and this house give full support for the release of the three captives and that you raise this immediately with the council and the commission to gain their support. i heard this afternoon that the captors have said that they will make no further effort to make contact after 7.30 p.m. our time. mr president, i ask you to give this your utmost priority, because, as annetta flanigan said, they only went there to help the people of afghanistan.
mr president, i wish to raise an issue of serious concern to everyone who believes in democracy. the belgian supreme court has upheld a previous ruling that declares the vlaams blok a criminal organisation and effectively bans it. nobody in my group supports the ideology or the practice of the vlaams blok, but in a democracy that is not the point. it is for the electorate and not the courts to make political decisions, and actions such as this can only increase political extremism and perhaps the use of violence. today these events have taken place in belgium, but tomorrow it could be the european union. we already have a european arrest warrant. we have eu funding of political groups, and i believe that criticism of the eu itself will very soon be deemed xenophobic, and that action might be taken against parties such as mine. every democrat among us should therefore condemn these moves.
mr president, two weeks ago i visited israel and the west bank. almost exactly two weeks ago today i was standing in a place in tel aviv called carmel market, looking at the tragic aftermath of a suicide bomb. to witness for myself the horror that israeli citizens have to live with every day was profoundly moving and deeply upsetting. the prosaic and everyday nature of the scene of bustling shoppers and market stalls contrasted brutally with the clear-up operation that was taking place, with human remains being scraped off the canopies of the market stalls. i hope that all meps will join me in condemning those who send 16-year old children, strapped with explosives, to blow themselves up together with innocent shoppers who have just popped out to buy something from the local cheese shop. i also hope that everyone in this house will join me in expressing our profound hope that we have reached a turning point in the middle east, and that we have reached a point where the path of peace and dialogue will start to displace that of the bomb and the bullet.
mr president, i want to speak on two matters. firstly i would like to associate myself entirely with the remarks of my colleague from northern ireland, mr nicholson, with regard to the atrocious situation that has befallen annetta flanigan, a lady who has given selfless service to afghanistan. doubtless all our thoughts are with her family at this very difficult time. secondly, i want to dissociate myself from any eulogy to so-called president arafat. he was an unrepentant terrorist who introduced to the world the horror of the human suicide bomber. he found common cause with other terrorist organisations throughout the world, including, in my country, the provisional ira, which has for years maintained fraternal relationships with its fellow murderers in the plo. i therefore dissociate myself, on behalf of the victims in my country, from the eulogy to a confederate of world terrorism.
mr president, 14 november is world diabetes day. to mark this, i would ask mep colleagues to follow up in their own countries the question of job discrimination against diabetics. all eu countries operate blanket exclusions against people with diabetes in certain posts, but the range of excluded occupations varies widely. for instance, belgium and the uk bar diabetics from being police officers, but hungary and portugal do not. italy bars them from being ambulance drivers, but the uk, portugal and greece do not. in the uk they cannot be air traffic controllers, whereas in greece and portugal they can. in a european union with a common market and the freedom of movement of workers, this makes absolutely no sense. i will be putting questions to the commission on this, but i must point out to my colleagues how illogical the situation is. some of these bans date back 40 years or so and they do not take account of modern treatments. this kind of blanket discrimination must be abolished.
mr president, in your opening remarks you mentioned anniversaries. before we gather again in strasbourg there will be another anniversary. on 3 december, it will be 20 years since the bhopal disaster in india. the death toll from that tragedy – more than 20 000 – is still rising at the rate of one every day. over 120 000 people were injured, and the survivors and the children born since then are still suffering appalling injuries, symptoms and disabilities. however, for the last 13 years, dow chemicals – the american owners of the union carbide factory – have ignored a summons to face charges of culpable homicide in the indian courts. compensation has been pitiful, responsibility accepted negligible. i hope you, mr president, and colleagues here in this parliament will support all measures to get justice and real help for the victims.
mr president, i want briefly to raise two issues regarding freedom of expression. the first is the re-arrest of mordechai vanunu in israel. he completed an 18-year sentence – much of which was in solitary confinement – was released and has now been re-arrested on the grounds that he associates with foreigners. as he is seeking sanctuary in the cathedral in jerusalem it is hard for him to do otherwise. the second issue i should like to raise concerns the series of raids that have been carried out by fbi agents against 21 independent media outlets, most of them in the european union. most have been closed down. no clear explanation has been given for either of these actions. i would remind the house to consider that in troubled times we should be more and not less concerned with liberty and issues of freedom of expression. i hope that the authorities here can seek some explanation for these actions.
mr president, i will be a member of this parliament's delegation to observe next sunday's run-off presidential election in ukraine. but unless the eu agrees to the long-term possibility of eventual eu membership for that delightful country, it is inevitable that whoever wins has only one economic option: to look east to moscow. ukraine will then be obliged to implement fully the single economic space with russia, belarus and kazakhstan, and possibly even uzbekistan. once it enters into close free-trade agreements with countries – such as belarus and uzbekistan – that have lamentable human rights records and, in particular, if these evolve into a customs union, then its door to eu integration will be irreversibly shut. with the possible exception of mr berlusconi, no other eu leader is bold enough to make encouraging euro-atlantic integration noises to ukraine. it cannot be morally sustainable to open negotiations with turkey and with western balkan countries and deny such a right to ukraine. this election, as well as being free, fair and transparent, must also allow the option of long-term eu accession to be part of the ukrainian people's choice.
mr president, during our last session, and after depositing documents with the serious fraud office in london, i advised this house that i had called on the british government to withhold all future funding of the european union on the grounds that the british parliament has never voted to pass public money to third parties who cannot be trusted to account for it properly. you later said that such action would be contrary to european union law. a number of questions arise from your claim. are you saying that member states must pay their dues to the european union however inadequate the financial controls are? are you saying that the european union cannot be forced to account properly to its paymasters? under the treaties, member states shall ‘take the same measures to counter fraud affecting the financial interests of the community as they take to counter fraud affecting their own financial interests’. are you saying that those words are in fact meaningless and cannot be enforced?
mr president, british conservatives believe that the code of conduct on arms exports has worked well as a politically binding instrument since it came into being in 1998, but there is scope for some improvement and refinement. however, we are opposed to the code becoming legally binding. we sense that there are often fine political decisions to be made and that these are best taken by politically accountable ministers rather than by judges. some of the information on which decisions are based is highly sensitive and confidential and should remain within the domain of government. we certainly would not wish to see the european court of justice involved in this area. in any case, a legally binding ban would merely present another opportunity for certain states to exercise their hypocrisy, as we have seen, for example, with the efforts by some to evade the european union's targeted sanctions against regimes in zimbabwe and burma or, indeed, the efforts by certain states to circumvent un sanctions against the regime of saddam hussein in iraq. if we look at the romeva i rueda report, some of its provisions would simply be counterproductive if adopted. for example, it calls for the publication of information on the number of licences refused, stating the reasons for refusal. the published details on licence applications that have been denied would give unscrupulous arms manufacturers and dealers knowledge about which goods are wanted by whom - effectively a rogue traders' customer list. we already have adequate laws in the united kingdom, but want to encourage other states to meet our own high standards. you can be sure that any new eu law would be gold-plated and rigorously enforced in britain but ignored in other countries. we spend a lot of time policing ourselves in europe, but the main problems are countries which are not bound by any scruples or international rules.
mr president, every year arms kill hundreds of thousands of people and cause immeasurable human suffering. not only are unlawful killings in wartime on the increase, but equipment is being misused by soldiers, paramilitaries and police to kill, wound and commit terrible atrocities against civilians in peacetime as well. on current trends, by 2020 the number of deaths and injuries from war and violence will overtake the number of deaths caused by diseases such as malaria and measles. although the eu code of conduct was welcome as a first step, export controls across the eu still have many weaknesses and loopholes and we need the political will to implement the changes required to add to and tighten up the code criteria, to regulate licensed production overseas, to apply the code to weapons components, to strengthen arms embargoes and to ensure that all eu member states publish annual reports on arms exports, which austria, greece and luxembourg have failed to do. otherwise the rules will continue to be bypassed. for example, the helicopters used against civilians and insurgents by the security forces in nepal contain eu components. german deutsche ag diesel engines bypass eu embargoes by going to china and to burma and the production of military small arms has been shifted to malaysia, a country that has aggressive export plans for these arms and would not be subject to the eu code. as already indicated in operative provision 11, this should not stop at europe. the british conservatives hypocritically preach that others should do what they claim is done in britain. i am proud of what britain has done, but i want to see an international arms trade treaty. they will not support that in this resolution. finally, i should like to endorse the view expressed in this debate that there are many hurdles to be overcome before the embargo against china can be lifted. first, it is crucial that any decision to lift the embargo should not adversely affect stability across the taiwan straits. second, we need to understand fully the impact on the flow of arms if the embargo is lifted. third, we should express our continuing concerns about china's human rights record and any decision must be subject to its progress in meeting human rights standards.
mr president, i welcome the switch to an eu military operation in bosnia and herzegovina. i also applaud the fact that lord ashdown will promote overall eu political coordination there and, specifically, will give the eu force political advice. nato's sfor was criticised by amnesty international for human rights violations. lord ashdown will have an important role in ensuring that the althea eufor mission does not practice arbitrary arrests or ill-treatment of detainees. i would urge that the bosnia and herzegovina human rights ombudsman be given jurisdiction over their activities. i also hope that the eu takeover of military responsibility will lead to an energetic effort to find war criminals and deliver them to the hague. finally, i want an assurance of zero tolerance towards sexual abuse, exploitation and use of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking. it is at last time to say goodbye to commissioner patten, but i look forward to working with him in the quest for a 'yes' vote on the constitution in britain.
mr president, like mrs pack i asked some specific questions. one of these was similar to hers and concerned assurances as to the non-use of prostitutes who are the victims of trafficking. this is not a trivial point, it is really important. secondly, i asked whether the bosnia and herzegovina human rights ombudsman would have jurisdiction over eufor activities with a view to avoiding the kind of criticisms levelled at sfor regarding arbitrary arrests and the ill treatment of detainees. these were very specific questions and i would be very grateful for an answer from the presidency.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, this is the first concrete expression of the european union's appreciation that the turkish north cypriots voted strongly for the annan plan. it is the first, but it is behind schedule and it is a small sum of money: far too small for the commission's list of glamorous priority projects that commissioner patten, whom it is very nice to see still here, read out earlier. as a result of a lack of generosity, the money will be spent in such a circumscribed fashion that it will only apply to 15% of the territory of north cyprus, excluding many villages that voted en bloc for the annan plan. i would like to say that i deplore the sluggish progress on this question in the council. worst of all, the financial regulation has been split from the trade regulation, which is by far the most important part of the package. will the minister commit the presidency to produce a result on the trade question within three months?
on behalf of the group.– mr president, about two days after the us presidential elections i turned on my radio at home. i heard one of george bush's climate change advisers telling us, firstly, that climate change was a myth; secondly, that european scientists were all funded by national governments, that none could be trusted and only american scientists were independent; and, thirdly, that commissioner wallström had admitted that the whole climate change agenda was designed to ensure that european industry was able to catch up and additional burdens were imposed on american industry in order to allow this level playing field to be established. and all that time i thought the commissioner was out there trying to save the world! in yesterday's financial times i saw that one of mr putin's advisers, whom we have heard from before, is still telling us that it is all a myth and global warming will be a good thing! it is like old cold war warriors coming together again, trying to fight in a more globally warmed arena. it is to the commissioner's credit that we have come this far, but we have a very long way to go. we have to ensure not only that we implement kyoto – which, as we know, will do nothing to combat climate change but will simply slow down the process – but also that we involve developing nations, raise the targets and find ways of changing public policy in ways that are politically acceptable and involve the united states. i do not know how far we will get down this road. i hope at least that, in the commissioner's new role, she will, over the next five years, at least have the opportunity to communicate a message of success.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i should like to add my thanks to commissioner wallström for all her work as environment commissioner. i know we are going to miss her very much and would like to extend our thanks to her. i should also like to thank mrs corbey for her report. this is a very important subject, which makes a real difference to our environment. it is an issue that constituents feel extremely strongly about. there are two key issues in mrs corbey's report. firstly the dates. i understand very well why the rapporteur is proposing slightly later dates than the commission. our group, the verts/ale, can certainly go along with that, with the proviso that we believe we need to be very careful that these compliance time gaps between older and newer member states begin to start closing afterwards. as we have seen before, these gaps have in some cases actually got wider over time, so we need to make sure that over time they begin to close. on balance, however, we can accept the amendment. another key issue is amendment 4, to which many other speakers have referred. we have great sympathy with what mrs corbey is trying to achieve with this amendment. the rapporteur is trying to safeguard dutch national provisions on re-usable packaging. i would point out that at first reading, green amendments were aimed specifically at enabling national re-use schemes to proceed, but on that occasion we unfortunately did not secure a big enough majority to get that through. the greens strongly support re-use as an important way to reduce the environmental impact of packaging, but we share the reservations expressed by others about trying to tackle that in this directive by amending a recital. we appreciate the motivation, but we do not think this is the right place to do that. we are not sure anyway how an amendment will support the dutch case, since it does not amend the current legislation. we are not convinced that this recital would have an impact on the netherlands, since this legislation appears to be much more applicable to the ten new member states than to the 'old' member states. even if it were applicable, i am not sure how much further forward it would take us. the main difference between what we already have in directive 94/62/ec on re-use and what the rapporteur would like to introduce is a slight reinforcement of the level of encouragement to re-use. but given that the amendment is just to a recital, i do not see how it really strengthens the existing legal possibility. i strongly urge that we use all our efforts to promote re-use over recycling and recovery when we come to the full review of the packaging directive next year. i look forward to a strong commission proposal next summer. that will be the right time to ensure that we give re-use the priority it deserves.
on behalf of the group. - (the speaker spoke in irish) ...the revised packaging and packaging waste directive marks another important step towards strategies and policies that focus on waste minimisation, recovery, reuse and recycling. in both the north and south of ireland, similar directives are having a positive impact and changing both government practice and public mindsets with respect to domestic and commercial waste management. much work remains to be done, but we now have many good examples to learn from, including innovative ideas on reuse. i also wish to stress the importance of deadlines for ensuring that member states reach the targets agreed by the eu, and this includes deadlines for the newest member states. at local government level in ireland we have directives which show that recycling brings with it the notion of local authorities, from belfast to dublin, actively pursuing new forms of waste management, while at the same time government departments have been moved to concentrate their efforts as a result of these directives. it is important, however, that those countries which joined the european union in june 2004 are treated fairly. i therefore support mrs corbey and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety with respect to the amendments on this point. this is not about delay: it is about clarity, effectiveness and fairness. we need deadlines, but we also need clarity and fairness for all. on that basis the original agreement on dates should stand. it is also extremely important for us to ensure that countries can pursue policies on reuse and that we do not close down any possibilities in this respect. (the speaker spoke in irish)
mr president, in noting the delay in the implementation of the packaging waste directive that the accession states are to be allowed, i wish to say that, from our experience in northern ireland, they are fortunate to escape its requirements for several years. under this directive, draconian regulations have been imposed on northern ireland. we now have the ludicrous requirement that a diy retailer, for example, who buys in packaged goods and sells them on, is required to make returns detailing the net weight of the packaging of all such goods passing through his business, even though he never opens or discards any of the packaging. he is then liable to what amounts to a waste tax for merely handling the goods and, in addition, has to waste time and effort on trying to assess the weight of the packaging. i am therefore glad that the accession states are being spared this lunacy. i note with some surprise that the republic of ireland, although a long-established eu member state, has also been permitted to defer full compliance until the beginning of 2012. sadly, the united kingdom did not seek equal derogation, so we are beset with the foolish regulations i have described. i am also somewhat surprised that the last speaker seems ignorant of the fact that there are different provisions in the republic of ireland and that it has been granted an extension and deferment until the end of 2011. perhaps if she concentrated more on the documents, rather than speaking in a language that no one cares to understand, she might not have made such a fundamental mistake.
mr president, to follow on from what my two colleagues have just said, i took part in the adoption of this directive with mrs corbey and others. we were certainly under the impression that the dates mentioned in the preamble to the directive, as it was finally adopted, were the dates that would apply to the accession states. i therefore have some questions for the commissioner. it is very nice to see her here for what must be one of her last debates as environment commissioner. first of all, have the accession states requested these earlier dates? they are embarrassingly close to the irish dates. ireland, as we know, has been looking at this legislation for many years and has done absolutely nothing about it. were these earlier dates that the commission is proposing actually requested by the new member states? if not, on what basis have they been decided? second, are they based on any cost impact assessment? there must be some additional cost between the dates that the new member states wanted and the dates the commission is proposing. i believe that these dates show the way in which the commission operates. it sees much of this legislation as aspirational. as my colleague mr allister has said, we see it as legal texts that are put into operation. if we are not very careful, we will find a mass of used packaging being exported from the european union to china and elsewhere in order to escape this situation. so could we please have those answers from the commission?
mr president, cuba has regrettably failed to make any progress on human rights in the past year, indeed, since i last spoke on the subject. but it has had the recent good fortune of mr zapatero's new socialist government coming to power in spain. mr zapatero seems keen to cosy up to castro, aided and abetted – shamefully – by the british, italian and french governments, which have decided to try to change the tough policy of ostracising the castro regime and regularly inviting cuban dissidents to eu embassy functions. this was done last year in protest, after mr castro imprisoned 75 dissidents and human rights activists and executed three ferry highjackers fleeing the island. castro has recently expelled visiting european mps and ngo workers keen to engage with dissidents under the varela project. the role of prime minister blair, as a close friend of president bush, who is tough on cuba, is a bit of a mystery, unless it is some shabby deal cut over gibraltar, which is thankfully off the agenda in madrid right now. for a long time the cuban government has been able to blame all the country's woes on the american embargo. that is why our resolution supports lifting it. i am not sure that will help, as lifting it might relieve the increasing economic hardship, worsened by castro's stupidity in recently banning the dollar for trading purposes as a response to tighter travel restrictions by the us on cuban exiles visiting their families. oswaldo payá, our sakarov prize winner, is still denied the right to visit the european parliament, but he has written a letter to president borrell, urging the eu to stand firm on its common european position for as long as the authorities continue their violations of fundamental rights, which included a disgraceful lack of adequate medical care for cuban prisoners. i applaud the resolve of countries such as the czech republic and hungary, which have been used to the tyranny of communism and have stood firm on any relaxation of the current arrangements. no doubt when the ailing tyrant finally passes away many in this house will sing his praises as the historic father of the nation, as they have recently done sycophantically on the death of president arafat. i, however, will regard the departure of president castro as a fresh chance to build a prosperous and democratic cuba.
mr president, i very much agree with commissioner nielson that 2003 was a sad year for eu-cuba relations, and one of lost opportunities. i was in cuba recently with colleagues on an ad hoc delegation. i saw for myself the enormous potential of that country – a potential unrealised at present as a result, among other things, of the us sanctions and the current situation with the european union. i also agree with commissioner nielson that we need a constructive eu policy towards cuba. others in this house do not seem to have been listening. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra is not listening to me now, but he said a few moments ago that we should stand firm in demanding freedom. mrs malmström said that the cubans have a right to democracy. do they believe that people on this side of the house do not believe in human rights? they were not listening to mr martinez earlier on. we have made it clear that we do believe in human rights. no one in this house has ever defended the death penalty. however, we have to be realistic. after 45 years, changes will not come quickly. some people in this house will also argue that we should never talk to political opponents if we disagree fundamentally with their political and military tactics. where has that ever got anyone? can anyone think of an example where that has improved the situation? i think that some people have a fairly naive understanding of democracy and the way things work. i could respond to mr tannock's rather pathetic remarks, but it belittles this debate to bring in all sorts of other issues when we are talking about cuba. i would remind mr tannock and others, when they are looking for parallels or examples around the world, that in different circumstances the uk government never got anywhere with the irish situation until we were prepared to enter into very difficult negotiations with our political opponents, people with whom we disagreed fundamentally. that is the only way we are going to achieve peace in the middle east. we have to have dialogue in countries like cuba. that is why i would argue that we need an exchange of ideas in order to promote change. the present eu policy, founded on the issue of who is invited to summer parties – or not – does not help cuba or europe, and needs to be changed. i urge members to think very carefully and support a sensible and realistic compromise text that will move the eu forward, will help cuba and will help the world.
mr president, the cuban political system is unique in the world. we, as a parliament, absolutely condemn the human rights situation in the country and the lack of free speech. however, that is not to say that the situation is all bad. on a recent visit to the country we found that schools, where there is a ratio of 15 pupils to one teacher, are the envy of europe. the humanitarian work of educating doctors to transform health services in developing countries is not a case of talking about solidarity with africa, but acting on solidarity with africa. today, however, relations between the eu and cuba are at an all-time low. there has been no high-level contact between the governments of the eu and cuba for over a year. the situation came about as a result of the eu pursuing sanctions against cuba for a crackdown on dissidents in 2003. the sanctions came in the form of an invitation to cuban dissidents to attend member states' national day celebrations, alongside government representatives in cuba. this action clearly infuriated the cubans. they were the ones who cut off contact. my appeal tonight is that we should be consistent in our approach to human rights. by all means condemn human rights violations in cuba, but do the same in china. if you are to impose these kinds of sanctions on cuba, then impose them on china as well. i feel that the eu strategy relating to cuba is to spread an incredible degree of naivety. did we really think that we could shift the human rights agenda in cuba by inviting a few dissidents to a party when 40 years of us embargo have failed? we need to adopt alternative strategies to push the human rights agenda. the current method is not working. mr white argued for the freeing of all dissidents in cuba. what about spain? do you want to free all dissidents in spain as well? i will not be lectured to by the spanish ppe on visiting cuba when the deputy leader of the conservative party, michael ancram, was swanning around havana last week. it is time that you and mr tannock got over losing the elections. get over it and stop imposing your stupid obsessions on the rest of the european parliament!
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i would like to confine my remarks to two aspects of the council's presentation: lisbon and the hague programme. firstly, on a personal basis i always worry when i hear a politician use the phrase 'there is no alternative', because mrs thatcher used that phrase when we were all perfectly well aware that there were plenty of alternatives. i worry, therefore, that we only look on the lisbon agenda as some sort of holy grail that we have to pursue, and genuinely welcome the netherlands presidency's recognition of the breadth of that agenda. all too often in this house the lisbon agenda is limited to the issue of competitiveness, and we omit all the other facets concerning more and better quality jobs, social cohesion and sustainable development, which went on to be developed more fully at gothenburg. if we reduce the lisbon agenda to the sphere of competition we are selling ourselves short and will not solve many of the problems facing our societies. the relevance of a partial reading of the agenda is thus highly questionable, and it is partly because of that partial reading that we have had such problems in implementing much of the agenda. we have totally forgotten the cardiff process on integration of the environment into all the processes and policies of the european union. when one looks at social cohesion issues, which are linked to some of the other topics touched on today, we would also seem to have forgotten the dynamic approach needed in the implementation of the article 13 directives on anti-discrimination. we would do well to reconsider the role of the equal programme in future, rather than consigning it to the dustbin. the implementation of legislation on anti-discrimination deals with issues surrounding the marginalisation of many in our societies, and also deals with some of the issues people have talked about this morning, in terms of respect for individuals and for what they can offer. when looking at the hague programme itself, one of the things not to have come through strongly enough is political leadership on issues concerning anti-discrimination. a directive on anti-racism and xenophobia is still stuck in council and we are not giving the political leadership that the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia has identified as being necessary to move forward. i wonder whether the eu human rights agency will provide that. we obviously welcome the moves towards qualified majority voting and codecision, and assume that this will also bring the european court of justice into play, although this is something not yet made explicit. however, i regret that legal migration has not been included because, as the council conclusions state, and as we have again heard this morning, illegal migration cannot be separated from legal migration. this is not just a home affairs issue. it also has real resonance for employment policy. people prefer to have a legal status, and we need to look at the bureaucratic complexities which stand in the way of this, and which parliament clearly identified in the previous legislature. rather than simply dwelling on the negatives – of which we have heard many this morning – we are looking for greater political leadership in terms of the sort of europe we want to create.
mr president, this debate represents a really crucial stage in the development of the european union. we have put such emphasis on the lisbon strategy and, like mrs lambert, i welcome the council's recognition that there has to be a real balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. but the cultural dimension also needs to be addressed more effectively, especially if we are to celebrate our diversity, as the minister said earlier. i also welcome the emphasis that was put on communication in this meeting. within the european free alliance parties we have different positions on the constitution, but we all agree with the urgency of improving the relationship and communication between the eu and the peoples of europe. there is no more effective way of doing that than by using people's own languages and this is why i take the opportunity presented by the bureau decision of 13 october to allow the use of other languages in this chamber. i conclude by saying this in welsh, even though there is no official interpretation. (the speaker spoke in welsh)
mr president, parliament will be pleased to know that the uk independence party were the lead players in the recent 'no' to the north-east regional assembly campaign in britain. seventy-three per cent of people in that region said they did not want any more euro-bureaucracy. i wonder what percentage would vote to get rid of the already-existing regional assemblies, with their awful appointees and their corrupt practices? we will shortly have the opportunity to say 'no' to the eu constitution and i mean any european constitution, because the gap between euro-rhetoric and reality has never been wider. the pretence here is that there will be no further integration until there has been a referendum. the reality is that the referendum is being pushed ever more backwards, while integration is being speeded up, with, for example, a common visa policy by 2006 and a european evidence warrant by 2005. i could produce 25 other examples, the most important being the common asylum system, which will be introduced in 2005, with coordination in place by the end of that year. all these things will be in place before a referendum takes place. as members of this parliament we are therefore entitled to ask what the effect will be of a nation saying 'no' in a referendum. does it mean we will remain members of the fourth reich? does it mean we will just be associate members, or will we be out? in particular, does it mean that any prior legislation will perish? we need assurance on this point. in fact, europe cannot tell us what 'no' means. britain will vote 'no' in the referendum by a massive majority, and will show you what 'no' means.
mr president, this house talks about lisbon, but even after the changes proposed in the commission you are still faced with electing to offices of great power politicians whose primary qualification is that they failed at home. few, if any, bring aptitude and experience to their portfolios, except of course the competition commissioner, who has been mixed up in corruption and the manipulation of major commercial contracts for her personal benefit and that of her friends for almost 20 years. i have seen proof of this, and also proof that mrs kroes grossly, persistently and deliberately misled her hearing. more than a thousand pages of evidence are now undergoing forensic investigation and we, a handful of meps, will finish the job that the nominating governments should have done in the first place. assuming that it survives tomorrow, the council and mr barroso should know that his team of commissioners is unlikely to survive intact for long.
mr president, we are undoubtedly at a crucial moment in the development of the union. wherever we look, whether it is at the lisbon strategy, or the security question and the demand for greater police and judicial cooperation, or even this week's report of the court of auditors, we see time and again that member states that talk about european cooperation do not put it into practice. we cannot continue with a system where member states pick and choose which bits of decisions they are going to implement and when – and these are decisions they themselves have agreed. this is undermining political support in the european union. i hope that once we get a full-time president of the council he or she will regard this as an absolute priority, but in the meantime, in order to keep the lisbon process on track, the commission should publish a regular annual scoreboard outlining which member states have done what and when. we can then judge, name and shame the villains. my colleagues mr désir and mrs van den berg have set out many of the key elements that we would like to see emphasised in the lisbon strategy. i would like to add to that the need for more active labour market policies at national level. we seem very happy to pay out money to keep people on the unemployment scrap heap, to pay people to be written off and marginalised, when we should be investing in helping them back into work. there is not enough emphasis on this, although it was originally in the kok report and i hope will continue to be. the president-in-office said that mr barroso is to be applauded for drawing the appropriate lessons from last month's debate on the commission. it is a pity that the same cannot be said about the dutch presidency. mrs kroes undoubtedly has the experience and expertise that will be of benefit to the commission, but given the concerns that are being raised it is wrong for her to retain the competition portfolio. whenever she has to adjudicate in a controversial matter, rightly or wrongly her integrity is going to be called into question. the presidency should act in the interests of the european union, not from narrow national concerns. i fear that the dutch presidency has failed in this respect.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the president-in-office, and the netherlands presidency as a whole, on the very clear orientation given on the whole issue of competitiveness and delivery of the lisbon agenda. i wish to thank you in particular, mr president-in-office, for the lead your government has given on the whole question of tackling the regulatory burden and improving the climate for business in europe. i was delighted to see in the presidency conclusions the substantial commitment that you, together with other governments – i know the british government is associated with this – have made to improving the business climate. i was disappointed you did not mention it in your speech, because this is one of the really important parts of your presidency. it is quite clear – and this is highlighted in the kok report – that cutting back on regulatory costs and encouraging new business start-ups is crucial to delivery of the lisbon agenda. we know about the very effective work you do in holland, where i believe you set your ministers targets on cutting the cost of the regulatory burden every year. that is an example of best practice that should be copied not only in all the member states but also within the european commission. i say to mr nielson, the commission's representative today, that we expect the commission to deliver on this. it is one of the commitments set out in the council's conclusions. our side of the house strongly supports this and wants to encourage it, and i would say to all members that this house has a role to play here. you asked us, president-in-office, how we were going to respond to the challenge of the kok report in becoming more engaged in the lisbon agenda. we need an effective committee in this house to look at the lisbon agenda. not one that substitutes for committees like mine, but one that tackles issues that cut across parliament's work, such as improving the regulatory agenda and acknowledging that we can sometimes be responsible for making life more difficult for european businesses. these are the real issues which i hope parliament will tackle in future, and i congratulate you and your government on the foundations you have laid for helping us to move this vital agenda forward.
mr president, today provides a welcome opportunity to thank mr nielson and his team for the splendid work they have carried out during his time in office as commissioner. it is also very good to hear from the president-in-office of his successful meeting with president allawi. i was in iraq last week. i have a suggestion to make as to how our aid might be most effectively targeted. as we all know, security is the major issue. european union support, carefully targeted, could make all the difference in the training and the equipment of the iraqi police service. security is what the iraqi people need and the lack of a strategic plan may already have cost many lives and will cost many more if we do not address this effectively. we need a strategic plan worked out with the iraqi ministry of the interior and, as a matter of urgency, proper forensic capabilities. westernised tactics should be adopted for the use of those capabilities and we should provide advanced surveillance equipment and the right training. then there is a real need to train senior iraqi police officers to plan and manage strategically, and that must be combined with an ethos of service and fairness within the iraqi police service. in other words, we must move on from a reliance on countering insurgency by military tactics alone to a mixed plan. the police should no longer be treated as a second-rate military force but, with european union funding, commitment and training, given a real chance of becoming a proper police service. finally, the iraqi people want the election to be held in january. a properly trained and effective police service is integral to its success. with our funding and our training competence, we in the european union can make all the difference.
the next item is the vote. report (a6-0007/2004) by joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 66/401/eec, 66/402/eec, 2002/54/ec and 2002/57/ec as regards examinations carried out under official supervision and equivalence of seed produced in third countries(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0017/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0016/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec of 3 june 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0019/2004) by martine roure, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the commission proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/463/ec adopting an action programme for administrative cooperation in the fields of external borders, visas, asylum and immigration (argo programme)(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0027/2004) by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0031/2004) by anders samuelsen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european agency for reconstruction(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0032/2004) by mechtild rothe, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument of financial support for encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0022/2004) by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the council's fifth annual report according to operative provision 8 of the european union code of conduct on arms exports(parliament adopted the resolution) motion for a resolution (b6-0162/2004) tabled by the committee on foreign affairs on the european union military operation 'althea' in bosnia and herzegovina(parliament adopted the resolution) motion for a resolution (b6-0129/2004) tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change (cop-10)(parliament adopted the resolution) joint motion for a resolution tabled by the following members: miguel angel martínez martínez, on behalf of the pse group, daniel marc cohn-bendit and others on behalf of the verts/ale group, francis wurtz and others on behalf of the gue/ngl group, seeking to replace motions for resolutions b6-0155 and 0163/2004 with a new text. on cuba (rc-b6-0155/2004) (parliament rejected the joint motion for a resolution)
in writing. ? i'll be supporting this report. almost a decade ago i presented to this house the first ever report on the arms trade, calling for the introduction of a code of conduct on arms sales. in 1998 this groundbreaking measure was introduced. yet already we see it needs to be strengthened, become legally binding and widened to cover arms brokering, the transit trade and activities of eu nationals outside of the eu. in the debate the continuing embargo on arms sales to china was argued. it was entirely right to have an embargo after the terrible events of tiananmen square in 1989. yet china is now transformed. the economy is booming, millions are lifted out of poverty. human rights - albeit far from perfect, have begun to improve. democratic practices are being introduced at village level. with the code of conduct this embargo is no longer necessary. china should be treated the same as everyone else. many arms sales would be forbidden under the code of conduct and rightly so. but it would encourage china to continue its tangible progress on human rights if each transaction was to be judged on its individual merits rather than by a blanket ban.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports this resolution, in particular calls to strengthen the code of conduct through the current review process. however, the interesting debate on a possible future eu-wide tax on arms sales is still in its infancy, and there are many implications that need to be fully explored and discussed, as outlined by the dutch presidency in the debate yesterday.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports parts of this resolution, in particular its opposition to the us embargo on cuba and the deep concern expressed about the human rights situation and restrictions on basic freedoms in cuba. the resolution is right to call for urgent action by cuba in defence of freedom of expression and political association, and for the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. however, we could not support this resolution because paragraph 6 seeks to undermine efforts to resume a constructive dialogue and engagement with cuba, by setting the release of all political prisoners as a precondition for any review of the eu common position.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
,on behalf of the group. – mr president, every visitor to the member state that mr barroso knows best learns that portugal's national symbol represents the cockerel that got up from the dinner table and crowed to save the life of a condemned man. four weeks ago, mr president-elect, your rooster refused to crow. tomorrow i believe it will. on balance, liberals and democrats were satisfied with the performance of the new reshuffled commission. mr piebalgs and mr kovács did well. mr frattini was soft on specifics, but sharp in general. he has the capacity to be an impressive commissioner for justice and home affairs, although he might need to disown much of the record of his patron in rome in the process. this is a better commission. i challenge anyone in this house to say otherwise. i challenge anyone to say that parliament was not right to demand that you remake it. liberals and democrats stand by our approvals with the same conviction that set us against mr buttiglione. we were forced to define your college by its weakest link. that link has been replaced and today we acknowledge the strengths of the college. it has real talent and deep reserves of competence. our parliament is asked to do the work of scrutinising the commission, but given only the rudest tools for the job. the treaty gives parliament the bluntest possible instrument; the heaviest possible sanction and nothing else. in political terms, the treaty offers only the possibility of destroying the town in order to save it. a system of checks and balances that has no middle ground between the cosmetic and the crisis is not worthy of european government and for that reason the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe must attach a price to our support tomorrow. we expect that if, during your term, parliament withdraws its confidence from any of your commissioners, you will come before this house to address the failing. you will either defend that commissioner on your personal authority or you will ask for a resignation. in july you wrote the principle of individual responsibility of commissioners into your speeches. well, today we want that promise in stone. the current framework agreement stresses that the commission president will 'seriously consider' any such withdrawal of confidence. that is not enough. this house wants more than 'serious consideration' and we will not consider your commission serious without it. for our part, we must now rise consistently to the challenge of critical partnership that we laid down a month ago. there has been too much talk of political retribution in this house; there have been too many attempts, here and elsewhere, to govern this process as if it were a sideshow of the internal politics of parliament and not the selection of a european government. mr schulz, my group may not agree with your assessment of individual commissioners, but we acknowledge that you have sought a dialogue with mr barroso which respects the necessity and the inevitability of compromise. to the green and red banners of the permanent opposition, i would say this: there is no dignity or honour or even refusenik glamour in voting against an agreement on this commission which respects parliament's complaint within the constraints of the possible. mr president-elect, the alliance of liberals and democrats is ready to give you and your commission its support. (applause)
mr president, that shower down there purports to be the government of europe. is that the best you can do? is that the cream, the elite? they are a joke! however you shuffle the pack, the joker comes to the top. they are a gaggle of rejects, failures, has-beens, no-marks, liars, dodgy characters and communists, epitomised by the british commissioner, mr mandelson, who lied on his mortgage application form so that he could live above his means; who was twice dumped from the british cabinet and who is synonymous in his own country with lies, deceit, evasion and spin. and he and that lot down there are now going to make the laws for my country on immigration, asylum, foreign policy and defence? i do not think so! these are not the people who have the ability or the opportunity ... oh! i see that the gavel is going down very quickly when i am speaking, mr president! my country deserves better and it will get better! i notice that the gavel is going down after exactly one minute, and not 30 seconds later, as it has done for everyone else.
mr president, sometimes european parliamentary democracy makes progress by putting up a scaffold and sending a king to the guillotine. at other times we turn to an obscure page of our parliamentary procedures and modernise the relationship between the executive and the legislature, solving problems through negotiation. the proposed framework agreement strengthens the parliament, but it also strengthens the commission, especially its president and its standing with the council. the commission will enjoy a dual legitimacy, drawn from the states and from citizens. i hope you enjoy it, but i also trust that you will use it wisely. the crisis has reassured citizens that the spirit of democracy prevails in the european union. it will be absurd for people to argue in the future that the commission is filled with unelected bureaucrats. europe and democracy are the winners from this crisis.
mr president, in july my united kingdom conservative colleagues were prepared to support you, mr barroso, and, despite reservations, your commission team. you have demonstrated clearly your pro-reform views both as prime minister in portugal and also in your prospectus for the eu, especially on the lisbon agenda. however, we remained concerned that the objectivity in the process of judgment of your commission team was corrupted here by left-wing politicians in this house. we have great reservations about mr kovács in particular. we were very sad to see the loss of a good man in mr buttiglione. in addition, the goodness of mr kovács is as yet far from proven. the inconsistency in our failure to give at least an indicative vote on that candidate, when we have given one mr buttiglione, is a matter of some concern. however, mr barroso, we wish to give you our support in the work that you have to do. we welcome you as incoming commission president. the complications of the ratification process must, however, provide us with a serious lesson for the future. we on this side of the house are always willing to learn. it seems to me that socialists and liberals never seem to learn; they may well gloat, but they do not learn. finally, mr kilroy-silk, who spoke earlier, patently has not even found his way to the classroom of his kindergarten. (laughter)
mr president, on a point of order, i am grateful for the opportunity to address you. (mixed reactions)you will recall that at the end of my allotted one minute of speaking time earlier today, i noticed you had the gavel poised at 59 seconds. i alluded to the fact and said it seemed a bit unfair that you were ready to stop me when others had spoken for one and a half minutes. i am told – i did not hear you say – that i was lucky that you had not used the gavel earlier because i was saying things that were untrue. i would be very grateful if you could tell me two things. what was it i said that was untrue, and what is the rule that enables the president of this parliament to censor members' speeches?
mr president, mr kilroy-silk's remarks on the commission were correct, especially so in the case of mr mandelson, whose name is a by-word for sleaze in the united kingdom. your remarks accusing mr kilroy-silk of slander demonstrate the anti-democratic nature of this parliament and of all eu institutions if such a further example ... (the president cut the speaker off)
council. i can elaborate a little on what i have just said. since the council, as i said, is not aware of any of the alleged details concerning the international arrest warrant and requests for extradition referred to in the question, i cannot offer any new views on that. however, we should bear in mind that international arrest warrants issued by interpol are not by themselves binding upon the state that receives them. they are more in the nature of requests from one state to another and do not automatically guarantee the detention and/or extradition of a suspect. instead, the question of extradition is largely governed by existing bilateral extradition treaties, if any. unlike the eu arrest warrant system, in which turkey has no part, there is no implied principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions between the states involved. the european convention on extradition under the auspices of the council of europe, to which turkey is a party, follows a similar logic.
council. on 5 november 2004 the european council adopted a new multiannual programme for the next five years, to be known as the hague programme, strengthening freedom, security and justice in the european union. the european council conclusions highlighting the hague programme take account of the recommendation on the use of qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure adopted by the european parliament on 14 october 2004. in the hague programme itself, the european council, taking into account the assessment by the commission and the strong views expressed by the european parliament in its recommendation, asks the council to adopt a decision based on article 67(2) tec immediately after formal consultation of the european parliament and no later than 1 april 2005 to apply the procedure provided for in article 251 tec title iv, measures to strengthen freedom subject to the nice treaty, except for legal migration. the presidency intends to submit a proposal for a decision to the council as soon as possible. the european parliament will have to be consulted on that proposal. by virtue of the protocol on the position of the united kingdom and ireland, these two member states will have the right to indicate their wish to participate in the adoption of the decision within three months. in view of these procedural requirements, the european council envisages that the move to the codecision procedure should take effect no later than 1 april 2005.
i of course welcome the fact that the european council has taken this decision to move forward. i congratulate the dutch presidency and the president-in-office himself, on securing this agreement. however, it does seem to show reluctance on the part of member states that this will happen a year later than the treaty of nice specified. surely a move to codecision, which would make the decisions more democratic, and qmv making them speedier and of better quality, would improve the so far unimpressive record in building a common asylum and immigration policy. we need to change the insular attitudes in national ministries, an attitude which accounts for why we had to amend the argo programme so that only one ministry can submit a project because it has not been possible to get three countries to cooperate. surely moving to qmv will help change that.
council. thank you for your remarks, but i have nothing to add to what i said in my first answer.
i would like to coax the president-in-office out of his reluctance to make a further comment. it is quite clear that immigration and asylum can only work if there is coordination between the 25 member states. does the president-in-office believe that the national administrations now support european action in a way that they simply did not a year ago? in particular, does he believe that on 1 april, ireland and the united kingdom will sign up to a joint approach to tackling these problems?
council. that is what i tried to explain in my first answer. it is really an issue for the commission. however, i understand the remarks. in general, the eu presidency tries to enhance relations with the us in various fields, for instance through business dialogue. stimulating mutual understanding for, on the one hand, justified security concerns and, on the other hand, possible trade difficulties will, i hope, lead to practical solutions that achieve the right balance between those different interests.
mr president-in-office, can i take your words to mean that you agree that there are unacceptable delays on the part of the american authorities with regard to european goods imported into the united states? would you therefore accept that retaliatory measures should perhaps be taken in order to ensure that our exports are properly treated by the american authorities?
council. i hope you will understand that i cannot add to what i have already said, and that this is a matter for the commission.
council. i really have nothing to add on behalf of the presidency. this is a discussion you should have with the commission.
i just think you are here, madam president, to defend the interests of the members of this parliament. it is not worth our while turning up to question time if the minister is not going to respond or try to respond – as he could well do – to our questions. i am not going to bother sitting around here listening to these non-answers!
mr president, i wish to place on record my thanks and those of parliament first and foremost to roy perry, my predecessor, who did so much to enhance the role of the committee on petitions, of which the ombudsman's role is such an important feature. (applause)i would also like to congratulate mr de rossa on a cogent report, and join him in thanking mr söderman for his services as ombudsman and mr diamandouros for his time served to date. i wish to make five quick points. one, the commission should reconsider its antipathy to a more open and effective control of member states, particularly in regard to the implementation of community law on public access to documents relating to the infringement procedure. two, the code of administrative behaviour should be observed by all the eu's institutions and bodies, not excluding the commission itself. my group will press this cause until it is achieved. three, my group is wholly in support of an increase and improvement in the ombudsman's investigative powers. four, we have heard that 75% of the complaints are declared inadmissible. we must have a continuing education campaign throughout the european union to improve the awareness of the ombudsman and indeed the petitions procedure amongst our citizens. five, finally i would urge the commission and the council to insist on - indeed to demand - firm deadlines by which responses to the ombudsman, the committee on petitions and, above all, to the petitioners or complainants, are made. as a school report might say, all in all, so far so good.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr diamandouros and the rapporteur on their work. i should now like to turn to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. contrary to criticism, the regulation on public access to documents works quite well. i urge the commission to accept our demand for a revision of that regulation, especially in respect of the new constitution. if the council is to meet in public when it acts in a legislative capacity, we need a definition of a 'legislative capacity'. i should to mention mrs sinnott's remarks. it seems she has left the chamber, but she indicated that the ombudsman is a manifestation of an undemocratic process. is she stating that the scandinavian countries with an ombudsman enshrined in their constitutions are undemocratic? if that is what she means to say, then she should apologise. i should also like to say to another honourable member, who i believe is a member of ukip – she must be sleeping! – that the role of an ombudsman reinvigorates and reinforces the democratic process. it is a part of the appeal process and it is about recourse to natural justice. with regard to the infringement proceedings, i do not share the opinion that the infringement proceeding process is being abused by the commission. the infringement process often leads to a judicial process. to make such documents public before a decision to go to the courts is made is to undermine either side in that legal process. i thank mr diamandouros and the house for listening so politely.
mr president, today a majority of liberals and democrats will vote for mr barrosso's commission. some of our members will not. there is work to be done and we feel on balance, mr barrosso, that your commission is now ready to do it. my group listened to your closing remarks in the debate last night with some concern. frankly, we listened with concern about your ability to understand this house. i was surprised to hear you say that a political group had been given a veto over the movement of a commissioner, because we all know that is a privilege normally reserved for national capitals. i was surprised to hear you suggest that a political group in this house had tied your hands, because i thought they had already been tied in rome, in budapest, in the hague! (applause from the centre)if the group you referred to was mine, i am not aware of it issuing any statements insisting on any of the commissioners being kept in their post. indeed, i have said publicly that you must have the freedom to make your own decisions on the distribution of portfolios for your new team. we want you to have that freedom. you blamed the house for the lack of freedom to manoeuvre when, in fact, we have worked with you to build this compromise and when not one of us in this parliament faces the european government that we might have chosen for ourselves. the approval process for the commission does not end here. this house is not in the business of granting tenure. today you get your driving licence. tomorrow we start on the rules of the road. we want a new framework agreement because without the ability to scrutinise your commission effectively, we cannot do our job properly. parliamentary oversight without some possibility of sanction is paper tiger democracy and we want something better. a month ago we insisted on something better. the motion for a resolution tabled today makes it clear that we do not take lightly the issues of propriety or competence or conflict of interest for any commissioner in any portfolio. where concerns exist, this parliament will be watching. liberals and democrats will be watching. i welcome your willingness to renew the framework agreement on stronger terms. we do not want to tie your hands or hold you hostage. every power that parliament gains carries with it a burden of responsibility and that is something we must shoulder along with you and your college. but good european government means accountable european government as you have said yourself. mr president-elect, liberals and democrats offer you a licence to get to work. you will have our constructive partnership, but we do not have the gift of authority. that is something that you and your commissioners will have to earn: every day, every month, brick by brick, in this stronger, closer european union. (applause)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, mr barroso said: 'i think my team is of high quality'. well, let us conduct a human audit. i am mindful that audits are not very popular in the european commission and that auditors – if they do their job properly – get fired, but nonetheless here goes: from france we have mr barrot, who will take on transport. in 2000 he received an eight-month suspended jail sentence for his involvement in an embezzlement case and was banned from holding public office for two years. from hungary we have mr kovács, who will take on taxation. for many years he was a communist apparatchik, a friend of mr kádár, the dictator in hungary, and an outspoken opponent of the values that we hold dear in the west. (applause from the ind/dem group) his new empire will produce taxation policy and he will look after the customs union from cork to vilnius. are the ppe group and the british conservatives really going to vote for that? from estonia we have mr kallas, who for 20 years was a soviet party apparatchik until his newly acquired taste for capitalism got him into trouble. however, to be fair, he was acquitted of abuse and fraud but convicted for providing false information. he is going to be in charge of the anti-fraud drive! you could not make this up! (laughter and applause from the ind/dem group) from the uk we have mr mandelson, who will take on the trade portfolio. he, of course, was removed twice from the british government, but to be fair, he is one of the more competent ones! from the netherlands we have mrs kroes, who will take on competition. she is accused of lying to the european parliament. these may be only allegations, but they are made by mr van buitenen and should be listened to. ask yourself a question: would you buy a used car from this commission? the answer simply must be 'no'! even if they were competent and even if this were a high-quality commission – sorry, mr barroso, but i do not think it is – we would still vote 'no' on the political principle that the commission is the guardian of the treaties; the commission is the motor for integration; the commission initiates the legislation that is damaging our businesses across europe so badly; the commission is the embodiment of all that is worst in this european union; the commission is the government of europe and is not directly accountable to anybody. please, when you vote, take note that 20 of these commissioners have already said that they intend to attempt to implement the constitution even before it has been ratified by member state governments. in the face of such breathtaking arrogance, nobody in the independence and democracy group will vote for this commission. (loud applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i do not wish to comment on the accusations made by mr farage. he can assume legal responsibility for any allegations he has made. i must say that i am surprised and disappointed by the behaviour of his group in this chamber over a number of weeks. last time, one of his members, mr kilroy-silk, bellowed like a bull through the microphone. i am sometimes ashamed of britain's reputation across europe for its football hooligans. i fear we now have their representatives here in parliament. (applause)
mr president, i am not sure whether i take your comments as being a neutral intervention or perhaps more of a veiled threat. i suspect the latter. i would like to make it perfectly clear that i did not make these comments without having done substantial research. mr cohn-bendit implied that he knew rather more about the case by trying to say that these difficulties and problems have affected many parties in france. i made the comments about mr barrot having researched the case very carefully. i believed it was a function of parliaments – even though i am not a particular fan of this one – that their members be able to speak freely, to make statements and to ask questions. i thought that was what parliaments were all about, so i find mr poettering's comments very surprising. i will make it perfectly clear: if it is proved that what i have said is wrong, if it is proved that my research is flawed, then of course, in those circumstances, i would withdraw the remarks and apologise wholeheartedly. (applause from the ind/dem group)
in writing. i and my uk conservative colleagues have abstained in the vote on the barroso commission because, whilst broadly supporting the president-designate, we have a major issue with the commission as a whole. we recognise that mr barroso has the qualities needed to fulfil his duties and that he broadly shares our views on the lisbon strategy and on transatlantic relations and we also recognise that his commission, on balance, shares his approach. we regard this as a positive and are thus, in principle, supportive. however, for us there are significant problems with, in particular, the debate over the withdrawal of mr buttiglione as candidate commissioner whilst at the same time retaining at least one other commissioner-designate who was the subject of serious criticism at his previous committee hearing. i consider that this is a blatant example of discrimination. we find this unacceptable, as we do the pledges given by commissioners-designate to endeavour to implement provisions of the constitution prior to its formal adoption. this we regard as anti-democratic. given these conflicting aspects of the commission proposed by mr barroso, we have, with regret, decided that we have no alternative but to abstain.
in writing. the commission was never going to entirely reflect my views and opinions as a member of the labour party. while the reality is that not all european governments are left-wing, the commission is the representative face of those governments in europe. i am voting in favour of this commission, not because i agree with everything it stands for, but because it is the embodiment of the broad church of european governments. three weeks ago mr barroso put forward a candidate who was out of step with european attitudes and values. parliament, the directly elected representatives of the citizens of europe, made a stand, proving that we meps are strong of will and not just a rubber stamp for the commission. it is now clear that all commissioners are on probation and we should be paying particular attention to neelie kroes in her role as competition commissioner, as her previous job as a lobbyist could well bring about a conflict of interest. we have flexed our muscles and in doing so we have strengthened parliament, now the commission must earn our trust.
in writing. i have abstained in the vote on the barroso commission because, while i broadly support president-designate barroso, i have a fundamental problem with his commission as a whole. i recognise that mr barroso comes from the centre right and that he is an atlanticist. i also recognise that his commission, on balance, has a significant centre-right orientation. i regard this as positive, and i am therefore minded to be supportive. however, the barroso commission supports ratification of the eu constitution, and my party, the british conservatives, oppose ratification and believe that the constitution is inimical to the interests of the british people. worse still, a majority of commissioners-designate have indicated in their hearings that they fully intend to implement aspects of the constitution falling within their respective portfolio areas, in advance of ratification. i believe that this is quite unacceptable and an affront to democracy. given these conflicting aspects of the barroso commission, i have reluctantly decided that i have no alternative but to abstain.
mr president, the interesting thing about the last six weeks has been that we have proved that politics is not a zero-sum game, and that more than one institution can win when we have a dispute. the commission has emerged from this process better equipped and more able to perform its tasks over the next five years. parliament has benefited because we have demonstrated that we can control the executive and that we have an influence on the formation of the executive. that is good for this house. turning briefly to my own area – i am now a member of the committee on international trade – mr mandelson performed extremely well in front of the committee. he demonstrated a firm grasp of the subject matter he will have to deal with over the next five years and he also showed a powerful desire to work with the european parliament. these are all very positive things.
mr president, my delegation voted in favour of this commission because all along we believed this was a matter of competence of the commissioners. we were not happy with the original proposal, although we feel that if mr barroso had handled matters better we could have avoided the problems that arose. however, we recognise the difficulties he faced with certain governments. we still have reservations about this commission and we will be looking to call it to account in the future. we will also hold the commission to account on the promises president barroso has made to parliament today, not least in relation to human rights. i have this morning written to president borrell, drawing his attention to the disgraceful incidents that took place last night and on tuesday night in football matches between england and spain, where there was racist abuse of black english players. i would like the commission to take an initiative, along the lines of president barroso's commitment, to deal with the problem of racism in football.
in writing. i welcome this report, emphasising the importance of every european citizen having the right to an accessible independent arbiter for impartial handling of their complaints. this remains loyal to article 41 (right to good administration) in chapter v (citizens' rights) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i applaud the report's call for even greater transparency within the european institutions. i also agree with the point that an increase in the complaints to the ombudsman over the past year may not necessarily be seen as a bad thing, as the facility is becoming more widely known throughout europe as a practical port of call for complaints.
mr president, i raise this point while keeping in mind the difficulty that the president was facing. i was very unhappy that an ordinary member of this parliament - a backbench member - wishing to raise a point of order was refused the floor and yet when the leader of a group asked for the floor, he was immediately accorded that right. as i said, i raise this issue mindful of the difficult circumstances in which we were conducting our business at that point in time. but it is important that one of the few rights that backbench members of parliament have, namely to raise points of order and to take part in sessions such as with these explanations of vote, is not eroded. the president should respect all members equally in these circumstances. there is no preference for group leaders when it comes to points of order. i would ask you, in a gentle way, to point this out to the president of parliament.
mr president, the dramatic events in côte d'ivoire have once again alerted us to the fragility of the situation in that country, which in the past was recognised as a great economic success in an otherwise very volatile region of africa. people used to flock there in search of work and prosperity. the situation is very worrying because there has been clear incitement to violence. this is particularly resonant when one recalls that exactly the same situation arose in rwanda, where the militias were urged to attack civilians, and french civilians in particular, in messages broadcast both on government and private radio stations. i welcome the fact that this incitement to violence through broadcasts has been dealt with in the un resolution, but would also like to see the united nations being granted, as part of its mandate, a peacekeeper's right to deal with such situations. the situation in côte d'ivoire is primarily about the blame game. when i was there around a year ago on an acp-ep mission, there was a great deal of talk from the north and the south, the rebels and the government, about which side was responsible for the failure of the linas-marcoussis agreement. the resentment in that country is not just against france. the weight of history is now being used as a potent weapon to arouse popular resentment against president gbagbo and france. some fear that abidjan is going the way of kinshasa in the democratic republic of the congo, a country whose skyscrapers and boulevards now lie in ruins. my view is based on what i saw when i was in côte d'ivoire, and is that this confrontation is much more between african and african. it pits ethnic groups from the north against ethnic groups from the south and landowners against migrant workers who want to be landowners. it is also a confrontation over côte d'ivoire's most valuable asset, cocoa. what makes the situation particularly intractable is that there are issues that were never resolved at independence and which have continued to fester ever since. these are questions such as: who exactly is a citizen of the ivory coast? who can rule the ivory coast? who can stand for election in the ivory coast? who can own land in the ivory coast? the northerners claim that they are being disenfranchised and are continuously being discriminated against by the elites - as they see them - in the south. the problems in côte d'ivoire will never be resolved until property rights and other demands are addressed. finally, with reference to the un resolution, i agree that the arms embargo is of great importance. what the previous speaker did not mention, however, was the very important fact that this embargo was strongly supported by the african union, which is a very positive development. chapter vii of the un charter authorises the use of force in the event of the arms embargo not being respected. i should therefore like to ask the commission how it will ensure the eu supports and works with the un in its efforts in côte d'ivoire and takes stronger action, over and above article 96 of the cotonou agreement, in respect of the situation there.
mr president, the case of tenzin delek rinpoche was raised with me by several of my constituents in scotland, including iain thom and naomi ness of the university of edinburgh tibet society. on 3 december 2002, tenzin delek rinpoche was condemned to death after being convicted of trumped-up and politically-motivated charges in a court in tibetan china. he was framed for a crime he did not commit, and this is backed up by independent research by human rights watch. he remains in chinese custody, waiting to die, and his current whereabouts are unknown. however, tenzin delek has always maintained his innocence. he is quoted as saying: 'i have been wrongly accused. i have always said that we should not so much as raise a hand against another.' indeed, his moderate and peaceful way of dealing with the problems that the tibetans face and with the repression in tibet, his work as an active lama to foster tibetan buddhism, and his practical work in tibetan communities have earned him many supporters. he is a symbol of tibetan identity and a champion of the tibetan cause. he is no friend of the chinese authorities. the arrest, detention and sham trial of tenzin delek mark the culmination of a clampdown on his activities and on those of his associates who, even now, face severe penalties if they dare advocate on his behalf. the paradoxical silence that followed the death sentence on tenzin delek, who is such a popular figure, is attributed by human rights watch to a campaign of intimidation and terror executed by the chinese authorities. international human rights organisations have also expressed acute concern that he was tortured while being detained – a likelihood rather than a suspicion. human rights watch also reports that he was denied the most basic of rights under international law: the right to a fair hearing. the chinese authorities, claiming that state secrets were involved, still refuse to disclose what actually happened in court. in short, his trial was a sham. regrettably, the case of tenzin delek rinpoche must be placed in the context of a catalogue of the human rights abuses perpetrated by the chinese authorities against the tibetan people both in the tibet autonomous region and tibetan china. the systematic repression of all things tibetan just about sums up chinese policy on the matter. the european parliament must send a clear message to china that this policy is unacceptable and it must do all it can to ensure the protection of human rights and the cultural, political, environmental and religious identity of the tibetan people. the miscarriage of justice suffered by tenzin delek must be put right. i would therefore ask all members to support this resolution.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, i sympathise with the people of tibet. they lost their independence and cultural identity when columns of uninvited troops came over the border. tibetans were forced to comply with foreign regulations aimed at changing their traditions and eliminating their country. i sympathise because the united kingdom lost its independence and identity when a referendum on trade turned out to be a political take-over. uninvited foreign regulations poured over the border attempting to change traditions and eliminate the country. i support the tibetans in their peaceful struggle to leave the grip of china and hope that they will pray for the people of the uk in their struggle to leave the dead hand of the european union. i respect the peaceful objectives of the buddhist tradition of tibet and realise that the rest of the world has much to learn from them. on monday, the president told this parliament that the first world war, a war in which both of my grandfathers defended their country, was a civil war. this is an untruth. i am aware that tibet's proud history is also being rewritten by the same species of bureaucrat. if you do not learn from history, you are doomed to repeat it. i can only offer a little 1940's anglicised latin in sympathy which i believe follows the buddhist teachings, 'noli illegitimatum carborundum' - don't let the bastards grind you down.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, eritrea is a small country in eastern africa with four and a half million people, which only secured its independence in 1993 from ethiopia after a bitter 30-year struggle. it then, foolishly, rapidly went on to fight another conflict, first with yemen over fishing grounds around the hanish islands, and then in 1998, with ethiopia again over disputed border territory. the latter dispute was only resolved in june 2000 after the loss of some 70 000 lives. to date, ethiopia refuses to accept the award of the village of badme to eritrea by the international border commission, and there is a 4 200-strong un peace mission at the border, although their work is made difficult by ethiopia's failure to permit demarcation and eritrea's restrictions on un actions. eritrea is a very poor country and alone in africa – the other exception being the democratic republic of congo – in postponing indefinitely the elections promised by president afeworki's so-called transitional government under the 1997 constitution and originally scheduled for december 2001. with this has come press censorship and imprisonment of journalists, including recently a swedish citizen. the ruling people's front for democracy – a bit of a misnomer, i must say – remains the only legal party. however, a new party formed by exiles is the people's liberation front democratic party and this was established in 2002. amnesty international describes the human rights abuses as appalling and catalogues the regular torture of political prisoners, including the asmara-11 group of former parliamentarians. recently, prisoners have been allegedly executed at the adi abeto military prison and the government of sudan – itself a government not known for respect for human rights – now accuses eritrea of aiding the darfur rebels and their groupings. this country is in a tragic mess and my group, the ppe-de, calls upon the new barroso commission, confirmed in office today, to demonstrate its commitment to democracy and human rights in africa by invoking the procedures under article 96 of the cotonou agreement and to see what further actions need to be taken to restore the rule of law and freedom to this country.
mr president, the last time i spoke in strasbourg it seemed to cause a little bit of a stir. all i was doing was getting up and telling the truth, but perhaps the time between my telling people about mr barrot and the vote was not long enough for people to really think it through. so what we have done as a parliament is approve a commission without having access to the full information available. that simply cannot be right and i am asking under rule 108 - and yes, i do think that football may be important, but this is rather more important - that mr barroso come here this afternoon so he can explain to us the circumstances of mr barrot’s appointment and we can discuss why our scrutiny procedures failed so dismally. then perhaps we can seek some assurances from mr barroso that next time things are going to be different. what could be more important here today in this european parliament than having this debate? this commission, like the commission that went before it and the one before that, starts under the most enormous shadow and i do not think that these european institutions will have any credibility at all unless we have this debate. (applause)
mr president, this house should be proud that last week its meps were amongst the first foreigners to address the assembled crowds in independence square in downtown kiev. i was personally deeply moved by the faith of the young ukrainians in that square in a free, democratic and european-value ukraine in the future, and their belief that justice, through people power, will ultimately triumph. there can be no doubt that they were cheated of their election result and the choice of a president of their own desire, but we in the western world cannot be neutral over a large european country struggling between a future as a potential eu and nato member state – a democratic one at that – and a powerful clique of corrupt, post-soviet, anti-democratic authoritarians willing to steal the election, through fraud if necessary, under the tutelage of moscow. i welcome today’s vote of no confidence by the parliament of ukraine, which has distinguished itself as the only body that is generally reflecting the views of the people. i call on prime minister yanukovich and his government, who unlawfully used the state’s resources to further their campaign, to resign forthwith and on mr yanukovich to fight the election as a private citizen, to ensure free, fair and transparent elections on a level playing field. the recent calls by eastern apparatchiks to split ukraine in half is highly cynical in a country which in 1991 voted overwhelmingly for a unitary state. this agenda is designed to produce immunity from criminal prosecution for electoral and other frauds, as well as to ensure that the donetsk oligarchs, who have accumulated massive wealth which funded mr yanukovich’s campaign, are not open to challenge or scrutiny and that they are not subject to confiscation of some of the dodgy privatisations that have occurred in ukraine in the last couple of years. we do not want another transnistria, 30 times bigger in eastern europe. let us hope for a united, democratic and free ukraine in the imminent future.
deputising for the rapporteur.– mr president, as vice-chairman of the temporary committee on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union 2007-2013, i am speaking on behalf of the chairman, mr borrell fontelles, to put his question to the council, and i welcome mr nicolaï being here. as the council knows, parliament convened this temporary committee and mr böge is its rapporteur; so far we have eight working documents and because as yet they are only working documents, we have not taken any formal positions. hopefully the questions that we put before the council and the responses that we get back will help us reach some conclusions. having said that, to be perfectly honest, i hope that when parliament does make its decisions there are certain items that it will be resolute about. in the previous parliament, in a report that was voted in my name, we set out certain conditions, certain priorities, one of which was quite simple: there will be no interinstitutional agreement without the agreement of parliament. the council is well aware of this but it needs to be stressed, as it is in the text of this oral question. we have also the issue of the length of the proposed financial perspective and parliament will, i am pretty sure, bring it down to something like five years rather than seven years. more important is the position of a fallback. mr böge asks in one of his working documents: what are the options if we cannot come to an agreement with the council? do we go for article 26 of the iia or do we go for article 272 of the treaty?’ having been in this parliament for the past 15 years and involved with the committee on budgets for all that time, i am pretty sure that parliament will go for article 272. that message needs to be got across to the council. i know that you, mr nicolaï, are well aware of that and also of the consequences if we do not reach an agreement. therefore, it is incumbent on both our institutions to make sure that we reach an agreement. moving away from the oral question for one moment, i am now the rapporteur for the discharge, and it is becoming obvious that parliament’s budget gets a bad press every november when the court of auditors report is produced. i would hope that the institutions – and if not the institutions then at least i hope parliament – can make a decision that we will not conclude an interinstitutional agreement until the budgetary authority has agreed a solution to the audit, to the legality and regularity of the european union budget. it is no use concluding a financial perspective that will be seen by the general public as being misspent, misused and irregular throughout the next five, six, seven years or whatever period we agree to. i come now to the questions; they are there for everyone to see and are quite simple. the first one is: ‘how does the council intend to cooperate with parliament?’ we are talking about how we are going to work together. hopefully we will not work as two separate organisations and there will be some work in tandem, so that we can share our ideas and make sure that the building-block approach of the council matches our own approach as set out in mr böge’s working documents. there is also a question about the calendar of the presidency, when you hope to conclude, what your present netherlands presidency hopes to achieve, and what you think the next presidency will achieve by the middle of next year. we mentioned the issue of trialogues, but it is fair to say that after an informal meeting we had this morning, mr nicolaï, you may give us a response to that. parliament’s position right now is that we should be having monthly trialogues, but i am sure your response will enlighten us on your thinking on this. i personally go some way towards your sentiments on this. an important issue is the question regarding the ‘prodi package’. we really need to know where the council is coming from. what is the basis for your building blocks? what is the basis for your working documents? is it the prodi package or are you taking a different approach? finally, the last question: ‘in the council’s view, what connection exists between the commission’s proposals on the new financial perspective and the issue of own resources?’ some of us, being british, are not bothered, but for the majority in this house it is a crucial issue. on that, mr nicolaï, we would appreciate some answers.
mr president, i would like to raise the situation of one of my constituents, john packwood from the isle of wight, who, as a result of an international arrest warrant taken out against him by the moroccan authorities, is currently being held in prison in madrid. mr packwood, along with three colleagues, delivered a privately-owned boat from the uk to morocco back in 1997. the boat was fully searched on its arrival, given a clean bill of health and the four men went home. a full ten weeks later several tons of cocaine were found on board the vessel. interpol interviewed the men and was completely satisfied that they were not implicated in any criminal activity. the first the men knew of the international arrest warrant was last month – over seven years later – when john packwood was arrested as he passed through malaga airport. he is now in prison in madrid and that is completely unacceptable. i would ask the president of parliament to intervene with the moroccan authorities to raise these concerns and ask that these arrest warrants be lifted. the international ngo, fair trials abroad, has agreed that this appears to be a blatant abuse of the international arrest warrant, since it is quite clear that the men could not have been involved in any smuggling operation.
mr president, on 17 november many members of this house will have seen the appalling abuse of international football players at an international match between spain and england, held in spain. that appalling abuse was not just an isolated incident; we have seen it at international football matches and in football matches across the european union. this is not just about abuse of people in their workplace, the football stadium; it has a symbolism and a resonance beyond that. we believe – and many of my fellow meps believe – that uefa, the body that regulates football, is not sufficiently serious about stamping out racial abuse in football. football is the game of europe, it is europe’s most prominent spectator sport. in the united states, the major spectator sports are family occasions. that is not the case in the european union. we call on uefa and fifa to bring in rules to stamp out and kick out racism in football right across europe, making it the family game that we all want to see.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to a decision made in the council a short time ago on live animal transport. i would like the house to join with me in expressing regret that agriculture ministers failed to reach an agreement on limiting journey times. they also failed to reach an agreement on rest periods for animals transported for meat and they failed to reach any agreement on stocking densities – the number of animals that can be put in one unit. these are all vital issues with respect to ensuring that we end the cruelty to which animals are currently subjected during live transport in europe. it is deeply disappointing that, yet again, the council of ministers has failed to take into account and adopt the approach of the parliament, which has consistently voted for an eight-hour maximum limit for the transport of live animals. the council got it wrong. it should have persisted and tackled these important issues in order to end animal cruelty in the european union.
mr president, by a strange coincidence i would like to raise exactly the same point. i have had literally hundreds of letters from concerned eu citizens on the council’s failure to reach an agreement on 24 april on the commission’s proposal on the transportation of live animals. each year some three million live animals are transported around europe. many face journeys of 50 hours, some as long as 90 hours. the suffering of the animals on these journeys is terrible. as mrs villiers said, this parliament has on four or five occasions voted for a maximum journey time of eight or nine hours. we have been ignored by the council and we need to put pressure on it. my personal preference is for the transportation of animals on the hook, not on the hoof, but if we cannot have that, the minimum we should have is decent conditions for these animals and an end to extra-long journey times. i hope the council will at long last respond, not just to this parliament but to the citizens of the european union.
the commission. mr president, it is indeed an honour for me to be here for the first time in this house, but i would be more pleased to be here on a more pleasant subject. instead, i'm here today for my first appearance to discuss and talk to you about a very important and very disturbing issue, which is the ongoing threat to our society, the plague of hiv/aids. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. today has been designated as aids day to mark the progress made in the fight against the plague. but more specifically, it gives us opportunities to focus on the challenges we face and to step up our collective efforts and to question, to question whether we're doing enough. in recent years, most of our attention has been focused on the tragic situation in sub-saharan africa and in developing countries in general. but hiv/aids is also a very deep and growing concern here in europe and in our neighbouring countries. it's something that affects all of us, here and now! the theme of this year's global aids campaign is women, girls and hiv cases. this was the theme of the annual aids campaign coordinated by unaids. this is a very topical matter. recent epidemiological data show that in the last two years the number of women infected with hiv has increased in all regions of the world. while the largest increase of 58% was observed in the east asian region, it is noteworthy that the second largest increase was observed in the eastern europe and central asia region, reaching 48%. let me give you some figures that were published just last week that are particularly disturbing: about 40 million people worldwide are hiv-positive, and nearly half of these people are women. in the european union, the number of hiv cases increased by 75% from 1996 to 2003, with the largest increase in the baltic states. in europe, the country most affected by the epidemic is the russian federation, where it is estimated that over 800,000 people are infected with hiv, 80% of whom are young people under the age of 30. according to unaids estimates, more than 500 000 people are carriers of the virus in the european union. through these data, it seems beyond doubt that the tragic problem of hiv/aids is spreading faster and faster and has now not only reached our doorstep, but has entered our home. the european commission is tackling the issue, both within and outside the european union. together with the member states, we are the largest contributor to the global fund, which is the main financial instrument for fighting the epidemic worldwide. we are also stepping up cooperation with neighbouring countries, fully recognising that their situation is particularly difficult. in september, the european commission adopted the document 'coordinated and integrated approach to combat hiv/aids within the european union and its neighbourhoods'. this paper summarises the current assessment of the situation and the problem. it also provides a synthesis of best practices to combat the latest wave of the epidemic and highlights the commission's short-term intentions to address the situation. the commission's main commitments relate to the areas of prevention of new hiv infections, reducing the impact of the epidemic, access to more affordable antiretroviral therapies, youth inclusion, developing hiv/aids epidemiological surveillance, intensifying research and civil society involvement. but i would also like to draw your attention to some key aspects of the effort to combat hiv/aids. prevention remains the main weapon in the fight against the spread of the virus. there is a great need for an information campaign throughout europe. it is important to bear in mind that the information campaigns of the 1980s were not aimed at today's youth and therefore there is a strong need today for a new effort to be made so that we can send the message to these very people. planning has already begun and next week a meeting is to be held with member states, international organisations and civil society representatives on this subject. as a general campaign will target the general public and young people, there is a clear need for other partners to design and implement specific campaigns targeting vulnerable groups, always in line with the specific needs of each group. i would like to emphasize that the impression that hiv transmission is limited to these vulnerable groups is completely unfounded. on the contrary, hiv/aids is an issue that affects us all: women, men, girls, boys, and it is an issue that affects us here and now! it is estimated that a large proportion of people living with hiv in the european union do not know they are infected. as a result, the risk of spreading the virus increases and of course these people cannot benefit from the treatment available. in general, access to affordable antiretroviral therapy appears to be fairly good within the european union. however, some member states have expressed concern about the future: if, or rather when, the number of hiv cases increases rapidly and the price of treatment remains high. this is one of the main concerns of the european commission, which has raised it - and continues to discuss it with the member states and the pharmaceutical industry - with a view to finding effective ways of overcoming these problems. but let us not underestimate the economic impact of the hiv/aids epidemic, which is very significant. the cost of antiretroviral therapy is only one aspect of these economic consequences. at the macroeconomic level, hiv/aids leads to increased spending on health care and social security. it causes a reduction in the number of workers and a drop in productivity which leads to an increase in labour costs. the cumulative effect is a negative impact on investment, production and per capita income. in short, the hiv/aids epidemic is a major threat to global health, development and security. beyond the economic aspect, however, hiv/aids is also a human rights problem. the european union is a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. the psychological aspect of hiv/aids and the isolation it causes must be tackled with the same determination. failure to take these aspects into account puts the effectiveness of the above-mentioned prevention and medical care efforts at risk. the issue of hiv/aids can no longer be a taboo. it is of the utmost importance that this matter be discussed openly and that the social stigma be finally ended. it's the only way to deal with it effectively. open discussion is an integral part of the information campaign, which in turn contributes the most to prevention. we must all, in particular the institutions of the european union, the european parliament, the european commission, but above all all all the member states, recognize and acknowledge the alarming new escalation of the hiv/aids problem. let us stop fooling ourselves into thinking that it has been contained or at least curbed, but instead intensify our efforts to combat it, but only to the extent necessary to be effective. i am optimistic that together we can achieve this.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, today ukraine has dominated our discussions, and in ukraine people are dying, not as a result of the political crisis, but because of the aids crisis. ten years ago, 183 people were registered as having hiv/aids there, today, in 2004, it is 68 000. that is the scale of this problem within our own continent. across the world nearly 40 million people have hiv and, as the commissioner said, we must take action to prevent and solve these problems. the focus this year has been very much on women and children. as the commissioner said, women account for some 57% of those who are hiv positive in sub-saharan africa, and over 60% of those with hiv aged between 15 and 24. finding vaccines appropriate to them before the onset of sexual activity is fundamental. the figures are appalling for orphans too. there are 15 million orphans in the world, 12.3 million of them are in sub-saharan africa. there are 1.8 million already in nigeria, and there will be 1.5 million in south africa by 2010. and so it goes on. we have to take action along the lines of our resolution; we have to take action on hiv/aids and on conditions, disorders and diseases such as tuberculosis, hepatitis c, mental illness and depression. we have to find more palliative care for those dying of aids, in particular in the developing countries. we have to protect our health workers from the dangers of aids from needlestick injuries – witness the exhibition in this parliament today. i welcome the commissioner’s statement. i also welcome the work done in this field by pavel telicka during his time as a commissioner. we urge commissioner kyprianou and his colleague commissioner michel to put shoulders to the wheel and to close the door on the epidemic faced by europe and the rest of the world.
commission. mr president, first of all i thank you most warmly for according me the opportunity to express my views on the report and on the amendments to this important draft regulation. may i also congratulate your rapporteur, mr coelho, on his valuable contribution to this debate. before presenting my remarks, i wish to recall the context of the commission's proposal. the primary objective of the member states was not only to improve the quality of documents, but also to establish a reliable link between the holder and the identity document. the aim of this approach was to minimise the dangerous trend of the production of counterfeit documents, which are used to enter the territory of the eu illegally. the approach was confirmed by the thessaloniki european council in june 2003. in september 2003, the commission presented two proposals introducing biometric identifiers into the uniform format for business and residence permits for third-country nationals. on 18 february 2004, the commission put forward a proposal for a regulation on common standards and biometrics in eu citizens’ passports as we were convinced that we cannot only secure documents related to third-country nationals. otherwise mala fide foreigners could abuse less secure european passports. in its proposal for biometrics in passports, the commission provided for one mandatory biometric identifier, the digital image, and left the second biometric identifier, fingerprints, optional. when drafting the proposal on passports the commission was fully aware of the sensitivity of this issue. on the one hand the eu has to suggest measures enabling member states to strengthen security and the protection of their citizens; on the other hand the commission has to take data protection and privacy concerns into careful consideration. at the council of 25 october 2004, the questions as to whether the second biometric identifier, the fingerprint, should be integrated in a mandatory way, and what the implementation data for the regulation should be, were discussed again. ministers reached a unanimous political agreement that the first biometric identifier, the facial image, should be implemented at the latest within 18 months and the second biometric identifier, should also be mandatory at the latest 36 months after the adoption of the technical specifications. this political decision could help member states to issue identity documents capable of establishing a reliable and direct link with all others. in this context it is equally important to underscore that the two biometric identifiers, digital image and fingerprints, should be used to reduce the production of counterfeit documents, not to interfere in the private lives of eu citizens. as regards the timing, the european council in its conclusions on terrorism of 26 march, set the end of 2004 as the date for the adoption of the proposals and the technical specifications. we are actively moving things forward. our technical committee has made an early start on its preparatory work on the technical aspects regarding the integration of the biometric identifier into the visa and the residence permit. also, the measurement work for the passport has already been completed. the technical specifications have to be adopted by the commission via the comitology procedure after the council has adopted the regulation, which constitutes their legal basis.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, as someone who opposed the previous nominee, i should like to say to commissioner frattini how pleased i am to see him take up his duties. i would like to welcome mr coelho’s report – it is an excellent piece of work. on behalf of my group, however, i have to state that we are not happy that there has not been time for parliament to be reconsulted on the new proposals from the council. we have concerns – although thankfully some of them have been met – with regard to the protection and integrity of data, verification by the passport holder of that data, the insertion of any corrections necessary, and restrictions on the use of the passport and the data. the reality is that our citizens want freedom of movement not only within our borders, but outside those borders too. we must therefore be realistic in our approach and ensure that biometrics in passports ensure free and virtually unrestricted movement across borders so we can focus on and combat organised crime, traffickers, drug barons and terrorists. however, one particular fear that arises from this, and which has frequently been discussed in our debates, is that of the capture of data. in this area we must be extremely vigilant. access to data must be carefully regulated by national legislation in accordance with the provisions of community law, european law and our international agreements. biometrics in passports must reinforce privacy and civil liberties and must not be used as a catalyst to assault fundamental freedoms and rights. in conclusion, i welcome the protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms as contained in articles 2 and 3 of the council document agreed on 23 november 2004. i commend mr coelho’s report and in particular amendments 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, which reinforce citizens’ rights.
sorry mr alvaro, but please put your question to the commission in writing.
i am sorry mr triantaphyllides, we have run out of time. i should like to thank the commission and all speakers for that debate on what is a very important topic. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is three oral questions to the commission on football in the eu: – oral question (b6-0133/2004) by ivo belet and doris pack, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on a framework for the balanced development of football in the eu;– oral question (b6-0134/2004) by christa prets, on behalf of the pse group, on the development of football in the eu;– oral question (b6-0135/2004) by hannu takkula, on behalf of the alde group, on a framework for the balanced development of football in the eu.
mr president, as we have heard, sport is important for the physical and psychological health of our communities. football, which is the most popular sport, has a particularly important role in this. the top professional clubs have to lead by example. i have to say i have been very impressed by the work of the professional clubs in my own region in the north-west of england in working to combat exclusion, providing education and providing community leadership. one area of great importance where football clubs have to be active is in combating racism and xenophobia. i was delighted to support the ‘give racism a red card’ campaign in the united kingdom. we have to keep up that fight. i regret the scenes we have seen recently in spain, italy and elsewhere, which show racism in football on the increase again. we must not condone this. it is important that the new commission takes initiatives in this field and it is important that we make it clear to football clubs that they must not condone the activity of their own fans. we must not forget, however, that football is a business and it must be allowed to operate in the same way as any other business. nor must we forget that – frankly – the old transfer system was akin to serfdom and did no service at all to professional footballers. i hope we would not advocate a return to those days but we have to do everything we can to support plans to bring young people into the game and give them more opportunities than they have at the moment. this is why we need to look at the uefa proposals. but i think that talking about the transfer system is missing the point. the points of key importance in football at the moment are television rights and how they are distributed among television clubs. i would like to hear the commissioner tell me whether he has any proposals on those rights so the money is more fairly shared between all clubs in football.
mr president, in recent years increased television coverage of football and increased funding through advertising revenue have changed the nature of the game and its impact on society out of all recognition. as a major aspect of entertainment, in which society takes considerable interest, it is appropriate that the eu institutions are aware of developments, even though the football authorities and the clubs take the major responsibility for organising the game. the issue raised by this debate is one which the clubs and uefa have been considering: whether they should encourage young sportsmen to aspire more to a career in the game, whether they have a real prospect of playing for the clubs which train them, or whether – particularly at the top level – it is merely a market for a limited number of world superstars. as i understand it, the european union is not seeking to prescribe employment practices to be followed by professional football clubs but there may be opportunities; observations and recommendations may be made. international competitions also form an important aspect of the public’s enjoyment and interest in the sport. if home-based youngsters are not encouraged, this aspect of the game may well lose out accordingly. my question to commissioner figel’ is: what should be the precise relationship between the commission and council of ministers and the football authorities now that the game has such a major impact on society at large?
i now call on the commissioner to reply to these questions, but i would like to remind him that we are in injury time – there are two more debates on the agenda tonight and it is almost 10 p.m. already.
commission. mr president, i am glad that there is such interest in sport and football. much of my week has been taken up with discussing it, including yesterday in parliament’s committee. today i should have been in the hague with the council presidency and the ministers for sport. i hope to be there tomorrow for the closing event of the european year of education through sport 2004. so, sport is currently getting a lot of attention, and much action is being taken that could result in some answers to the questions heard here today. this will surely bring more value and political weight to debates about sport in the european union and also to developments surrounding cooperation. mr karas said that self-regulation is better. that is true, but the rule of law is a founding principle of the union, and we have to abide by all the rules, including community law, national law, both lex generalis and lex specialis. this includes employment legislation, because in sport and in football there are different dimensions to activities. the educational and social value of sport, and football in particular, is reflected in many positions of the commission and in parliament. you will remember the helsinki report and the nice declaration on sport in 2000. we then came up with the idea of making 2004 the year of education through sport. i am sure that we will evaluate experiences, especially as the year draws to a close. as i said, the closing ceremony will take place tomorrow. i hope to come back soon with some evaluations and proposals. for the future, the draft constitution gives us a much wider legal basis for activities. once it is ratified, we will work on european sport policy. until then we have some time to prepare. we want to start ex ante open consultations, mostly based on workshops but also via the internet to ensure we have the widest possible audience. probably the most sensitive question was the idea on quotas …
i am sorry to interrupt you, commissioner, but we have a problem with time because other debates have overrun. i wonder whether you could answer the questions in writing? this is unusual, but we are half an hour late and the interpreters want to finish. would you mind bringing your remarks to a close and answering members’ questions in writing?
commission. that is no problem for me, if it is satisfactory for you.
sorry colleagues, i must insist. we have two more debates to conclude. the commissioner is prepared to answer your questions in writing. he could not have answered all the seven or eight questions put to him in the time available. i am so sorry, colleagues. i have invited the commissioner to wind up, he may do so, and he will answer your questions in writing.
commission. i want to remind the house that the conditions for any specific measures must be in line with both community law and national law, in particular national labour law. we do not have flexibility in explanation of community legislation, that is the court of justice’s responsibility. there is jurisdiction on judgments that are quite clear for some practices. until now we have had no formal requests. the commission cannot give guarantees on the compatibility of specific practices with the treaty. the commission does not have the power to authorise any practices that are contrary to the treaty. i look forward to more debates and to cooperating closely with you in future in the area of sport, including football.
thank you, commissioner. we will provide you with a copy of the transcript of the debate tomorrow morning so that you can answer the questions more quickly. that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report (a6-0033/2004) by edith mastenbroek, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual community programme on promoting safer use of the internet and new online technologies.
commission. mr president, illegal and harmful content on the internet is of real concern not only to this parliament but also to people outside parliament. child pornography, and also racist and violent material, is a real problem for our society. although parents are not always aware, we have also noticed that many of our children make contact with people in chat rooms and then they like to have contact outside chat rooms. therefore there is real danger. that is why we want this safer internet programme which has played a key role in the commission's action to protect minors in the field of audiovisual and information services. firstly – and i am going to be very brief, mr president, because you asked me to – there are the networks of hotlines where users can report illegal content; there are 18 member states participating. then there is the network for raising awareness of safer use of the internet, with 21 countries participating in network awareness nodes. then there is content rating and the parental control technologies, where we are setting up an international system for rating internet content and improving filtering technology. the first action plan involved 37 projects bringing together 136 organisations from 70 countries. the new programme is of course going to be in continuity, but also enhancing what we have done so far. it is very simple, there are new technologies, so there are new forms of usage by those who threaten children. therefore we have to find new answers and that is exactly what we are trying to do, working very closely with the safer internet forum. to make a long story short – and it is story that interests parents and society at large – parliament and the commission are working on the same lines. all the amendments today are acceptable, which is good news for parliament, so there will be no clashes here and we can agree on a general line. that is the way also that i am going to listen to parliament’s proposals.
, on behalf of the group.– mr president, i will keep my remarks short in order to keep in with the interpreters, whom i much admire. the internet is a force for good when it is responsibly used, but it is a force for evil when it is in the hands of morally suspect persons or criminals. this report builds on the work that i did for my own report in the last session, dealing with the issues of child pornography on the internet. this is a very good report and it forms the basis of further work, which we need to do because technology moves on. technologically, the criminal community often moves on rather faster than the law enforcers. we need to be aware of the fact that this is a highly technologically-based industry. it is also one where we need more codes of conduct, which impinge upon those who make considerable profits as service providers within the business. i do not mind people earning a lot of money but i feel that sometimes this brings with it extra responsibilities, particularly in an area where there is an international dimension. we in europe must act. we have been dealing with money laundering directives recently. it seems to me that the minutiae in regulations in that area, which we require people to abide by, indicate that we are far too flexible and easy-going when it comes to controlling the internet. let us by all means take the internet forward, let us find new technology, but let us make sure that the people who wish to use that technology for evil purposes are curtailed in their actions for the good of all of us.
mr president, there are few reports which respond to a real feeling amongst european citizens for a solution, particularly among parents, than this report. mrs mastenbroek has completed an excellent report and people who are real experts in this field such as mrs segelström and mr kirkhope have added their words of support. i want to focus on three or four clear points. one is to congratulate the commissioner on her words about the proliferation of racist and other violent material, which is on the increase and which is of concern to all of us here in the european union. i want to raise mrs mastenbroek’s very important distinction between illegal material and harmful material. as mr kirkhope said, we are dealing here with a hugely imaginative product of technology, something which adds to our freedom and is something that we should handle with great care when we deal with how to curtail some of its excesses. i want to pick up on something practical. on friday in my constituency i will visit a major charity called childline. many children’s charities across the european union are crying out for the kinds of solutions we see in this report: funded solutions, hotlines. mrs mastenbroek, for example, mentioned the possibility of a children-specific hotline being adapted from the hotline approach that we see in the report. we have to deal with safer internet providers, people who are making a great deal of money out of this technology but who also have a real responsibility. it is for us to publicise that need so that there is some peer pressure on internet providers. finally, for the older people amongst us, 3g technology will open out this kind of technology even more. the next generation will deal with it. it has to be protected. this report goes a long way towards doing that.
commission mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the achievement of bringing her first report to a successful conclusion, if all goes well, at first reading. it deserves to succeed because this project of ours, which is a common project and not one of these or those people against these or those others, which is a project which must be carried out by the whole of society, is aimed at truly supporting the best that our new technologies can bring, without the negative influences that the parliamentarians have so talentedly spoken of. it is obvious that we will do everything in the new programme to make the security of parents, and therefore the security they want for their children, safer. we will also do everything - and mr paasilinna is right about that - to try a hard policy. we cannot pursue such a policy by acting only softly, by soft law. we should instead move to the third pillar which offers the possibility of harsher policies but also much more difficult to implement. that said, i think what is essential, mr president, is that there should be a general awareness of a problem that has been identified; what is also important is the certainty, very well expressed by the members, that if we do not tackle this problem head on, if we do not manage to solve it, the harmonious development of a technology which can be and will be important for lisbon will not be in the right direction. we therefore have a duty to our society and its weakest elements to move forward. i am grateful to parliament and its members for helping the commission and the council to do their duty.
i should like to thank the commissioner and all colleagues for their cooperation in respecting the time limits. i should also like to take this opportunity to wish ms mastenbroek all the best for her forthcoming marriage. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on:– report (a6-0039/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest paymentsand – report (a6-0042/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec of 3 june 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments.
mr president, the uk independence party objects to this directive in the strongest possible terms. this directive admits the principle that the european union has the right to interfere in member states' taxation policies, something that the british government has always told the british people it will never allow to happen. indeed, it interferes with the taxation policies of non-member states too, and this has been achieved by threats, coercion and bullying. taxation policy should be the reserve of independent, sovereign states; any desirable end contained in this directive should be achieved by international agreements freely entered into by sovereign states. tonight we are discussing monaco and san marino, but this directive will also affect some british overseas territories, namely the cayman islands, some other caribbean islands and gibraltar, territories that depend heavily on banking and financial services for their economic existence. in the great tradition of european legislation, this directive extends the power of the european union whilst damaging the economic performance and viability of the victims of that legislation. in relation to the european union, the british government has acted true to form in its usual cowardly and treacherous manner. just as it betrays its own people, it has betrayed its dependent peoples in order to fulfil its higher loyalty to the european union. looking on the bright side – who knows? – perhaps this directive may help in time to turn up some of the countless millions that have been embezzled from the european union. unfortunately, it is far more likely that those millions along with other perfectly legitimate millions will be subject to capital flight and will be reinvested outside the reach of the european union. i would ask any mep who values national sovereignty to vote against this directive.
commission. mr president, i will very briefly explain the position of the commission. i want to take as a point of departure the fact that there is a very clear and strong community interest in upholding the principle of fair taxation and in the elimination of tax evasion. that was the aim of the directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, more commonly referred to as the savings tax directive, which received the strong support of the european parliament. in order to ensure the effectiveness of these measures and to preserve the competitiveness of the european financial markets, the council gave the commission a mandate in october 2001 to negotiate agreements with key third countries for the application by those jurisdictions of equivalent measures in their own savings tax directives. the two agreements in front of us today follow those with switzerland, andorra and liechtenstein, which have already been presented to and supported by parliament. they constitute an essential component of a new framework for cooperation in the field of direct taxation based on our own savings tax directive, but also comprising similar agreements signed at national level with dependent and associated territories of member states. all these legal instruments will have simultaneous application from 1 july 2005. let me thank parliament for this vital support for these two valuable reports in favour of the proposals for the conclusion of these agreements. in closing let me express the hope and expectation that these agreements will now be ratified without problems on both sides and so help alleviate uncertainty for market operators as regards the timing for the necessary preparations, in order for them comfortably to meet the starting date of 1 july 2005.
thank you, commissioner, for your magnificent brevity. i should also like to thank the services, particularly the interpreters, for working late this evening. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, my comments on the court of auditors’ annual report for 2003 regrettably echo my thoughts last year. little has changed: accounts are not signed off and something like 94% of the data are deemed unacceptable, either unsafe or riddled with error. more than half the commission’s directors-general signed their declarations with reservations. this is the eu saying ‘i have not got a clue’. it all sounds too familiar. well, so it should. this has been happening for ten long years. in my country any company that submitted one set of unsafe accounts would be dealt with very firmly, but the eu has got away with it – as i have said – for no less than ten years. the great tragedy is that this decade-long saga of corruption and mismanagement is funded by the poor old taxpayers. there can be no greater testimony to the impotence of this institution than the fact that such a scandal has been allowed to go on for so long. yet marta andreasen was sacked for telling the truth and parliament adopted a resolution requiring the secretary-general and president of the committee of the regions to present their apologies to an internal auditor for the harassment that he had endured, but this was not forthcoming. it goes on and on. this report attempts to shift the blame for the unholy mess on to the member states, but we should be under no illusions about where the blame really lies. the european commission is the exclusive custodian of the monies paid into the european union by the member states and it alone holds the power to withhold payments if it observes any form of wrongdoing. instead the commission has simply sat on its hands and looked the other way for ten long years. but of course it is not only in this place that people should hold their heads in shame. mr blair and his colleagues back in britain should be holding their heads for continuing to pour taxpayers’ money into the european union at the rate of gbp 1.5 million per hour when they know full well what a mess the whole thing is. the british government has an obligation to spend taxpayers’ money wisely. it is singularly failing in this operation. does this situation not bother anybody? it certainly bothers me and it bothers my party. we look for some changes in the future.
mr president, the court of auditors is a charade: the misappropriation of public funds starts with its paymasters, and that is why it is impossible for the court to be effective. the few honest, experienced and professional accountants ever allowed near the heart of the commission’s treasury function have all spoken out about institutionalised malpractice. the accounting system is not secure, changes in the financial records are untraceable, and the new system will be little better. the new regulations which are supposed to strengthen controls actually increase the risk of fraud. the court and olaf focus on problems after public funds leave here, and that takes the heat off the commission, which is where the real problems lie. why else has the treasury not been subject to an independent audit for more than 14 years? it is a scandal!
mr president, for the tenth year running, as we have heard, the court of auditors has been unable to give a positive statement of assurance on the annual accounts of the european union. as conservatives we believe that this is a deplorable state of affairs and share the views of those who wanted to see the flaws in the financial system fully corrected by now. i suspect that in previous years there has been a lack of real priority, even though a commission was dismissed as a result of some of these problems. i welcome mr kallas, our new commissioner, in his first appearance. if i remember correctly, he said at his hearing that he will make sure there is zero tolerance in cases of mismanagement and fraud. it is not enough simply to pay lip service to that. unlike the previous two speakers, who are here simply to be destructive and critical, we as conservatives would like to see three priorities over the next five years. the first relates to the accounting system. we have to recognise that significant failings have occurred, but, as the commissioner and the president of the court have said, we have a new system coming in. we welcome this important step but we will be monitoring it very carefully to see exactly what it is going to deliver. secondly, on the question of whistleblowers, we have often received information – for example in the case of eurostat – but the information was not followed up. we must have a system that allows people to come forward and say exactly what is going on. last and most important is the question of shared management. i and others thank the president of the court for his excellent work, because he has focused on the real problem that the european union faces. it is not so much a question of fraud and corruption but of being able to know where the monies go: whether it is audit certificates from the member states or whether it happens to be an internal control system, as the president has suggested. we need to be able to ensure that in future we have a positive assessment of the statement of assurance – the das. we also need to ensure that we bring the member states into the system and make the national administrations responsible, so that european monies are fully and properly accounted for.
mr president, ten years ago i was the rapporteur for the discharge and ten years ago i made the statement that we will never have a positive statement of assurance – das. i said that because, regardless of the failings within the commission or whatever was wrong as regards irregularities, we could see quite clearly ten years ago that there were two incompatible systems: the system being used by the court to do its audit and the system being used by the commission in the way it functioned. changes have taken place over the last ten years. the court has changed its methodology – it has moved to the four-pillar system – and the commission has had the kinnock reforms, but i still remain convinced that, even from 1 january next year with the new financial regulations and the new accounting systems, we will still not see a positive das because of the way things are organised. i would like to address one comment to mr titford. in your own country the department of social security has failed to get clearance of its accounts for the last 14 years. the american federal budget has failed to get any clearance of its accounts for the last six years. this is not a unique organisation and it would have helped, mr titford, if you had actually taken part in the hearings we held – all six of them. at least mr mote turned up on some occasions and put some questions, but then again mr mote is an independent uk independent, not a uk independent as mr titford is. but anyway, back to my script. what we have is the commission saying that it uses the clearance of accounts because that is what it says in the financial regulation. that is how it controls such things as agricultural expenditure. so its attitude is that they can recover the funds – why does the court of auditors not include that in the das? a point worth making is that when the clearance of accounts is used the money is actually recovered from the member states. it is not recovered from the farmers or receiving organisations, which means that national taxpayers foot the bill for any irregularities or fraud. then the court says that to recover is good, but we should have a system where you do not need to recover. the system should be better. well that is quite understandable. so the commission then says: yes, but to do what the court actually wants will cost so much money that it simply will not be cost-effective. that i can also understand. i will be looking at a variety of conclusions from the committee on budgetary control’s six hearings with the commissioners and the court. it is obvious to anyone that one of the main problems is that of shared management. as one of the members of the court said in the hearings, it is not a problem of control, it is not a problem of audit, it is a problem of management. so i am beginning to think that we need a system which makes the authorising bodies in the member states responsible for giving assurance on legality and regularity. it seems strange that in a shared management system only half of the partnership needs to be responsible. that will mean changes to legislation and it will mean the cooperation of the council and the member states. from the court’s point of view i have yet to be convinced that two of the four pillars as mentioned by mr fabra vallés are reliable. i have real concerns about the amount of transactions inspected and i also question the extent to which other auditors’ work is used. we need a regular activity report on the work done with national audits to be sure that the four pillars give a transparent das. there will also be the perennial request from parliament that the court should sectionalise its das so that the budgetary authority knows exactly where the problems lie. we are in a situation that sees a set of rules from the court that can never be met by the commission within reasonable costs no matter what it does, compared with the benefits to be gained. i am not trying to bend the rules, i am trying to make them fit. i am asking the court to try to establish a set of rules that can be played by. imagine barcelona playing manchester united in the european cup final. there is a crowd of 70 000 and all eyes are on the pitch and on the players. the whole of europe is looking at this. on comes the referee, he walks to the centre spot and he places at the feet of wayne rooney not a football, but a rugby ball. as the players try to point out the problems that they may have with an oval ball, he says never mind the ball, get on with the game! that, quite frankly, is the attitude that the court has towards efforts to change the system. it is never mind the ball, get on with the game. however, let us be clear: this analogy does not mean that the commission or the member states should be seen as the elites of public administration. i have a final point. thankfully i am on the temporary committee for the new financial perspectives. we should not agree a new financial perspective until we have resolved this problem of reliability and accountability from the member states.
mr president, yet again we are presented with a court of auditors’ report that questions the reliability of the commission’s accounting practices and the accounts themselves for the tenth year in a row. the court indicates that nearly 95% of the eu budget has serious problems with regard to accountability and effective spending. two years ago marta andreasen, the commission’s chief accountant, raised many problems regarding the eu’s accounts. instead of listening to her and acting on her advice, the commission briefed against her, suspended her from her job and then, two weeks before the old commission retired, fired her. people in europe are sceptical about many eu issues but their biggest worry is the fact that the european union is unable to have properly signed-off, audited accounts. this situation cannot continue, because it will bring the european union into more and more disrepute. it is imperative that the new commission act immediately to restore the confidence of the general public. as a member of parliament’s temporary committee on foot and mouth disease, i now wish to focus on the court’s special report on the 2001 crisis. the court’s report points out the uk government’s many failures during fmd. there were no provisions to handle a serious outbreak of disease and there were no proper financial controls to manage the outbreak. the court also identified many major problems over animal movements. the three-day delay by the government in banning animal movements allowed the disease to spread rapidly, resulting in double the number of animals being slaughtered. the lack of financial control by the uk government resulted in the eu commission disqualifying nearly two thirds of britain’s claim and some gbp 948 million of emergency eu funds. this has led to the uk taxpayer losing some gbp 600 million. the court of auditors’ special report on foot and mouth has highlighted yet again the need for a full public inquiry to be held in the united kingdom into the fmd outbreak of 2001.
mr president, regrettably terrorists from northern ireland have helped destabilise colombia. in 2001 a top ira bomb-maker called monaghan and two others were captured in colombia while imparting terrorist expertise to the drug-funded marxist guerrillas of farc. their mission on that occasion was to perfect a fuel airbomb with specialist equipment provided by the ira. in two earlier visits organised by sinn féin's representative in cuba, the ira had already passed on to farc its skill in making car bombs and mortars. car bombs and mortars identical to those used by the ira have since been used regularly by farc. in return for its deadly expertise, sinn féin-ira received six million dollars and the people of colombia received mass murder and destruction. finally, for me the colombia adventure illustrates just how far sinn féin has to travel before it could be considered fit for government in any part of ireland.
mr president, i welcome the proposals in the mastenbroek report. as cross-border traffic and abuse of content on the internet grows, europe needs to step up its efforts to protect children from harmful and offensive content. it needs to act on the explosion of internet paedophilia websites. however, more needs to be done by europe not only as regards reporting and closing down sites but also in assisting law enforcement agencies to track and prosecute offenders and to identify the victims. i want to see the eu continuing its support for projects on identification of victims of internet child abuse. children who are the subject of abusing images carry their feelings of pain, guilt and suffering for the rest of their lives. their images are on the net being traded by paedophiles on a daily basis. out of a suspected 60 000 individuals portrayed in current abuse images, only 250 identifications have been recorded. new technologies, such as photo-messaging and digital cameras, make it easier for child abuse images to be produced and shared on the internet. let us hope that today’s report opens up new channels for action at eu level so that we can tackle and close down the criminal and offensive material and prevent the abuse of children.
in writing. i welcome this report, stressing the importance of continued action needed to safeguard children from harmful and unwanted content that is being disseminated via the internet. i applaud the report's recognition of the need to implement measures to encourage reporting of illegal content in addition to the assessment of the performance of filter technologies and the benchmarking of these technologies. furthermore, i would like to reaffirm the magnitude of the commission working in close-cooperation with member states as it will ensure that the implementation of the programme is complementary to other relevant community policies, most notably the community research and technological development programmes and the daphne, econtent and modinis programmes.
in writing. the socialist group supported the above report when voted in libe committee on the 25th october 2004. the report, as voted in committee, included the obligatory insertion of a digital photograph whilst leaving the option of a second biometric (a digital fingerprint) up to the member states. the pes position was carried in committee, a position which afforded necessary data protection and civil liberties protections (see amendments 5,7,8,9,10,11,12). furthermore, the socialist group supports the protections in article 2 and article 4 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the council position of 23rd november. at the justice and home affairs council meeting end november 2004, it was decided that two biometrics would be obligatory (digital photo and fingerprint). the council expressed its desire to take a final decision on this issue during its meeting of 3rd december 2004. the council insists that the report be adopted by the ep during its december i plenary. the pes group sees no gain for the european parliament in challenging the council to reconsult the parliament on this report which falls under the consultation procedure. the pes group urges the council to recognise the parliament's good faith shown in respecting the council's desired timetable on this report.
in writing. as the chief observer for the european union election observation mission to indonesia this year i have great respect for the work of my colleagues in ukraine. it is therefore clear to me that the integrity of the elections has been compromised and the result therefore cannot be accepted. the role of the election commission must also be called into question as they were either complicit in a fraud or were too poorly organised to detect one. in the circumstances we need new elections and an election that is neither corrupt nor incompetent. i will be voting accordingly.
mr president, you will recall that during our last part-session in strasbourg i raised the plight of the three hostages who were being held in afghanistan. i am sure that everyone is as relieved as i am that they were released and have now left afghanistan and returned to their homes. i thank you and your staff for your help and consideration and for the speedy representation you made to both the council and the commission. it was good to have taken part, if only in a small way, in the release of the three hostages. i believe it proves the necessity of applying maximum pressure at such times. in a world of such bad news, it is good to hear such good news from time to time.
mr president, this parliament has often discussed the issue of trade union rights in colombia, but on behalf of myself and my colleague, mr de rossa, i ask you to intervene urgently in the defence of workers from the trade union sintracarbon. they have received death threats and extortion demands from illegal paramilitary forces engaged in negotiations with their employers, carbones del cerrejón. mr president, on behalf of the european parliament could you please send a letter calling for the protection of these workers to the company, to its european owners anglo american, bhp billiton and glencore international, as well as to the colombian authorities. this parliament must register its condemnation of the violent intimidation in colombia or anywhere in the world against trade unionists simply trying to represent their members according to their rights under international law.
mr president, at our last part-session in strasbourg, mr farage was warned of the legal consequences when he spoke about mr barrot. the clear implication was that he could not speak his mind without fear of arrest or prosecution. amongst others, mr watson said so, although he himself had previously been rude about marta andreasen. many of us objected to this, but we did not object to mr watson's right to speak his mind. i understood this house to provide immunity from prosecution or from reprisals for words uttered in this chamber during a plenary session. how else can a genuine parliament function, or is this not a genuine parliament? after mr farage spoke, the question of french law was invoked. we are on french soil but the relevance of french law is questionable, as we are endlessly reminded that eu law takes precedence over national law. so my question is this: had mr farage the right to speak his mind as he did and, if not, how and on what authority is members' freedom of speech in this house curtailed?
mr president, between 25 september and 19 october 1915, 61 000 british troops were killed, captured or wounded at the battle of loos. at least 8 000 died, their bodies lost in the blood-soaked quagmire of the battlefield, a field which became a mass grave. that field is in auchy-les-mines in northern france. a few weeks ago that field was dug up by bulldozers to create a municipal rubbish dump. since the bulldozers moved in it has become impossible to move around the field without treading on fragments of human bones and remains, shreds of military uniform and military equipment. the bodies of these thousands of brave men are being reburied underneath household and building waste. i call on you, mr president, to write to the authorities in auchy-les-mines to express our strongest condemnation of the desecration of the graves of these soldiers – men who gave their lives selflessly to preserve our freedom and democracy in this continent. it is disgraceful that their resting place has been treated in this way.
mr president, the economic and social life of the island communities of scotland is very heavily dependent on the west-coast ferry routes. the scottish executive, on legal advice and after consulting the previous european commission, decided that under eu competition law these routes would have to be put out to private tender and private operators should be given the opportunity to take the contracts away from the state-owned caledonian macbrayne company. last week, in a highly unusual move – in fact it is only the second time since the scottish parliament was created that this has happened – the scottish parliament defeated the executive on this very issue and said that the executive and the commission should rethink their position on these lifeline services. mr president, given that the islands are now in a state of limbo – the parliament has stopped the executive from acting and the executive believes it has a duty to act under eu law – i would ask that you request the transport and competition commissioners to examine this matter urgently and determine whether these island routes really have to be put out to tender under eu competition law.
mr president, i had hoped in this speech to welcome a political breakthrough in northern ireland and to hail an irreversible abandonment by the ira of its dirty war and its means of war. sadly, however, as so often in the past, while sinn fein ira has talked the talk, it has failed to walk the walk. today, although mouthing commitment to democracy, it clings to the weapons of terror. thus it continues to exclude itself from democratic government in northern ireland. it prefers the click of the rifle to the click of the camera. camera shy, but terror proud. make no mistake, it is sinn fein ira alone that has once again let the people of northern ireland down. democrats choose the camera shot, sinn fein chooses the rifle shot. the challenge now is to let democrats move on without them.
mr president, it is essential for the sake of our stability as well as morality that we keep faith with turkey. if we agree to start accession negotiations we should see them through. i believe that the so-called privileged partnership is a false prospectus designed to drive turkey away from integration with europe. turkey has enjoyed a privileged partnership through the customs union and also nato for several years. this has brought us to the point of pre-accession. whatever the outcome of the accession negotiations, it is only through the process of the accession negotiations that the european-turkey relationship will develop. mr toubon and his friends propose that turkey be brought into a privileged partnership enjoying some aspects of membership, but without political representation and without the duty to respect european law and the principle of loyal cooperation. this is madness: it is bad for turkey, subversive of the european union and it displays a vast and astonishing absence of self-confidence inside this parliament for european projects. finally, i would like to ask the commission and the presidency to flesh out the proposal for a mechanism to suspend the negotiations should there be a crisis. i trust that the european council will follow the spirit of the constitution, which requires a third of member states to trigger such a mechanism and not simply a single truculent member.
mr president, is this the european union or do some have expansionist ambitions beyond the boundaries of europe? that is a key and defining question which arises from turkey's application for eu membership. turkey is not part of europe, it is part of asia: only a finger of land flanking istanbul lies in europe. that does not make it a european nation. you might as well say that spain is african because it has some outposts on the north african coast. it is a shameless agenda of expansionism which drives the eu in wanting to encompass turkey. turkey itself has a shameful history of expansionism. witness its brutal invasion and occupation of northern cyprus. witness its genocide of the armenian people. witness also, despite the massive inducements of pre-accession aid from brussels, its intolerant suppression of religious freedom, in particular with regard to christians. no – turkey is one country and culture that we can well do without.
mr president, many of us on this side of the house are very supportive of turkey's eu membership. over the past 80 years enormous changes have taken place in turkey; the process of reform has accelerated dramatically since the formal recognition in 1999 of turkey as a candidate for the european union. many of us also recall that turkey has been a staunch ally in nato for some 50 years and that during much of that time the country was subject to terrorist attacks by organisations sponsored by the soviet union. those of us who are supportive of turkey are under no illusions about the challenges ahead and the work still to be done. that is why we recognise that negotiations are likely to take 10 or 15 years. the alarmists talk as if turkey is going to join in a month's time. turkey has many very successful industrial sectors and a vibrant economy in many respects, but it is still a poor country. the economic challenges are formidable but the potential rewards are great. much still needs to be done to improve human rights, but let us not forget that some extremist groups misuse the label of human rights in order to promote sympathy for their own cause. it would be naive of those of us on the centre right in european politics to give any comfort to political groups that are closely linked to terrorists. we could talk at length about cyprus. it is not turkey that should be in the dock. turkish cypriots, fully backed by ankara, supported the united nations plan which, among other features, would have phased out the non-cypriot forces from the island, both turkish and greek. many say that turkish accession would fundamentally change the nature of the eu. if this means an end to the inexorable drive towards political integration and the end of the idea of some european state, then i welcome this. i share concerns about free movement of people, but this is a problem wider than turkish accession. at this time, four days before the european council meets, we need to send a strong positive signal to turkey that it is welcome as a member of the european union. this signal will have wider positive reverberations. let us give the green light now to the opening of negotiations with turkey, not grudgingly, but with enthusiasm.
mr president, the prospect of eu accession has been the motive for democratic reform in eastern europe, and this week the eu will decide if it will be so for turkey too. as mr verheugen said, there is no more that the turkish government could have done. it is time, 41 years after the promise was first made, for the eu to honour its side of the promise and for the talks to start. it is agreed that turkey should be treated the same as every other applicant country, yet some in this debate seek to suggest that referenda be held in existing member states, that a new type of status be invented, that permanent 'safeguards' be introduced against eu freedoms, or that big countries should be treated differently from small ones. no other accession country has been treated in this way and parliament should reject these amendments. indeed, i ask commissioner rehn this: if the council decides to start talks 'without delay', would he indicate in his reply how he would interpret this? what timescale would he recommend? no-one denies that there are important issues of concern relating to turkey and these are well dealt with by compromises in the text in the eurlings report. but if leyla zana, ten years a political prisoner, came as she did two months ago to this parliament saying that the promotion of human rights requires us to open the talks, who in this chamber can with any credibility use human rights objections to support the rejection of turkey? the plain truth is that too many people use these arguments. they talk about european identity and the fundamental character of the union to hide their true belief that a country with a majority muslim population should never be allowed to join. they seek to talk up the clash of civilisations, yet for three million turkish people in today's european union, and for one million muslims in my own country, the united kingdom, the only civilised europe is one based on the freedom of all religions and of none, of ethnic diversity and of combating racism. no new preconditions, no further delays. vote yes for a better turkey, but vote yes, too, for a stronger, more prosperous, more influential, more tolerant and more secure europe for us all.
mr president, to balance the focus on problems and challenges of turkish membership, can i just welcome the prospect of turkey's vibrant and generous culture enriching the european union, as it already does in north london where i live, not least through the presence of turkish and kurdish people as well as the excellent food. i also regard turkey's muslim identity – a secular muslim identity – as a positive contribution to a harmonious development of the eu as a multicultural society. but i would just like to stress the paragraph of mr eurling's report that invites the turkish government to take more active steps to bring about reconciliation with those kurdish forces who have chosen to abandon the use of arms. i hope that as part of the accession process turkey will be persuaded to seek a political solution to the desire of the kurdish people to express their identity, perhaps through some kind of political devolution. the pkk's 1999 ceasefire is under strain, and only political negotiations can ensure permanent peace.
mr president, the common position for adopting the parliament and council decision on the europass seems eminently sensible, and one wonders why it took so long to achieve it following the completion of the single market 12 years ago. the difficulty is not in adopting this proposal but in implementing it. mrs novak's explanatory statement helpfully highlights the role envisaged for the national europass centres to coordinate all the activities laid down by this decision. but this is not some detailed administrative role. if the proposal is to have the maximum benefit, implementation entails direct and continuous contact by the national europass centres both with universities and colleges and also with employers' organisations. i wonder whether, in his reply to the debate, the commissioner might dwell on this point and indicate how he sees the national europass centres successfully undertaking this work? the other – related – point i wish to raise is the question of monitoring the system. the initial evaluation period will now take place after three years – originally it was proposed after four years – and thereafter at intervening four-year timescales. i would have thought it unlikely that after the initial evaluation period radical changes would be made; so what that really means is that it is not until the system has been up and running for seven years that the commission is going to be able to take a view on it. that seems rather a long way off. i wonder whether the commissioner might dwell on that point as well?
on behalf of the group.– mr president, mr barroso, how nice it is for us to be able to continue our conversation that was so rudely interrupted just a month ago. you talked this morning about leading in europe, and there is much talk of five-year plans, of the great visions that you have; but it seems to me that you have one or two problems. there is the problem of legitimacy, and the commission has the problem of credibility. on whose authority are you people the government of europe? i certainly have never been asked whether that is what i want. the total failure of the hearings of the commissioners that went through this parliament has cast a very dark shadow over your commission. you know as well as i do that the gap between what you want and what the ordinary voters want is getting wider. that is why the turnout in the european elections in june was down to a record low. people know that the lisbon agenda is nothing more than a joke and that the economic model in the european union is simply not working. perhaps the constitution and the referendums that we are going to have offer us both a chance for a solution; but they must be free and fair referendums. i would like your assurance that any information that goes out to member states in which there are going to be referendums presents both sides of the argument, so that we can have a free and fair result. not to do so is to risk long-term public contempt.
mr president, i wish to make a plea on behalf of europe's stateless nations. like mr alvaro i was struck by our proximity to christmas. all the good little boys and girls have drawn up their christmas lists and instead of sending them to lapland we are sending them to the berlaymont. mr barroso, it is up to you to find out in january whether you have been father christmas or scrooge. however, i hope you will make all our christmases merry and bright. i refer to paragraph 3 in the christmas list in the name of mrs frassoni and mr cohn-bendit and the reference to the subsidiarity protocol, which is the biggest opportunity your commission has to put meaning to the often empty phrases about subsidiarity and bringing europe closer to the people. the subsidiarity protocol represents an opportunity for the commission to do something brave and new. it is perfectly possible for the commission to act as if the protocol were in force from this afternoon. regardless of any decision on the constitution itself, this commission could act in a way totally unlike its predecessors and involve the relevant institution at the relevant time, regardless of whether or not it is a nation-state parliament. by way of example, until five years ago, my own country, scotland, had no parliament. now we have a parliament, a government and a civil service with near total power over health, education, justice, home affairs, the environment and many other areas. the only thing we do not control is money, which, as colleagues will be aware, is a subject close to any scotsman's heart. however, we are bigger than ireland and have more people than denmark. the relevant institution for the commission to deal with in scotland is the european parliament and the scottish parliament and yet our flag is not there. we are firmly in the second class when it comes to relations with europe and yet we could contribute so much. i would urge you, mr barroso, to make our christmas merry and bright and use your commission and the subsidiarity protocol to put meaning to the phrases about subsidiarity, about bringing europe home, because you will gain, we will gain and europe will gain.
mr president, i am sorry to supplement mr barroso's catalogue of strategic priorities – which has already grown during the debate – but i hope that the commission will focus upon the necessity of preventing a collapse in the transatlantic partnership. there is currently a dangerous and unprecedented american reaction to european integration. europe and america diverge on a clutch of important questions: trade; science; fundamental rights; climate change; monetary policy; competition policy; foreign, security and defence policy and the constitution. it is a priority for us all that the constitution should enter into force. we have to fight for it across the atlantic as well as within our member states. it falls to the commission to state clearly what the constitution says, why it says it, and what the outcome will be if it is not brought into force. it is surely a perfectly sensible question for the citizen to ask 'what happens if i vote no?'. we need some serious answers to that question. the commission should not fight shy of offending some of our governments that have sought refuge in plebiscites but are failing to show any signs of wanting to make an effort to win them. the public should be informed of the sheer folly of rejecting the constitution and of what the outcome would be for an enfeebled european union.
mr president, this debate is about strategic priorities. as coordinator for my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to focus on one crucial priority: the internal market. i want to say in response to previous remarks – it is a pity that some speakers have already left – that the commissioner's support for the internal market services directive is very welcome because it is a fundamental part of completing the internal market. sixty percent of the european economy is taken up by services and we have a complete network of anti-competitive restrictions among the member states. mr barroso, do not withdraw the directive: make it better. i am afraid to say that some of my colleagues are still living in the past and calling it the 'bolkestein directive'. i hope, first of all, that they might move with the times and consider calling it the 'mccreevy directive', but maybe with your endorsement it could become the 'barroso directive'. who knows? i want to make a second important point about internal market strategy. we have to make the rest of the internal market acquis work better for consumers and businesses. aside from the internal market services directive, we do not want a lot more legislation during your commission in the internal market area. what we want you to do is to put some serious enforcement and simplification behind the existing internal market directives. on the ground, businesses find many of the european directives much too complicated; in many cases there are inconsistencies between them. the objectives on the environment and social policy are, in many cases, not being delivered and yet we have the costs and inconsistencies that go with them. consumers are concerned that they are not getting their full rights in terms of availability of products, common prices, or access to justice if they have problems in a cross-border world. i hope that the theme of your strategy on the internal market will be that consumers and enterprises will get a better deal from the internal market and you will bring in provisions during your term of office to make sure that we really achieve that essential goal.
mr president, at the start of this debate mr poettering referred to a resolution from the ppe-de group. this is an excellent paper and i commend it to you, mr barroso. its priority is your priority: to make europe more competitive and prosperous. it recognises that this can only be done by economic reform and, as part of the reform programme, it calls upon the commission to offer stronger leadership to make labour markets more flexible. this does not mean that the commission should lead only individual member states towards the promised land, it should also lead each individual commissioner. what particularly worried me during the previous mandate was the way that certain commissioners ran their own individual empires. for example, in the area of my particular interest, employment and social affairs, i waited in vain for the commission to act as a college and for mr prodi to highlight the way that certain social directives were hampering competitiveness and holding back employment. however, this seemed to be a no-go area for the commission as a whole, as if to say that, if it dared to challenge proposed social legislation, this might signify that it did not care about social justice and social cohesion. we all believe intensely in the importance of social justice and social cohesion, but the greatest social injustice is unemployment: one of the greatest sources of social exclusion is unemployment. mr schulz talked earlier of workers' rights, and of course these are important, but we must also pay attention to non-workers' rights, the rights of those who are willing and eager to work but have no job. that is why the commission as a whole must have the courage to revisit and rebalance the social agenda and to promote employment as a priority, with flexibility in labour markets as the guiding star. mr barroso, you will not succeed unless you do this. europe will not succeed unless you do this. you must succeed and we wish you well.
rapporteur.– mr president, in accordance with the rules, i had asked to make a comment about this report, and i am sorry i was not called before the vote. i rise not because this is a controversial report for this parliament – on the contrary, the committee on economic and monetary affairs adopted it overwhelmingly; and i am glad that parliament has done so too, because it is about fairness and ensuring equality of opportunity between all 25 member states. all this report does is to permit the 10 new member states to take advantage of an experimental scheme for applying reduced rates of vat to labour-intensive services, which 9 of the previous 15 had been doing since 1999. the scheme was unexpectedly carried forward and therefore was not included in the enlargement negotiations. i am very pleased that this vote has carried today. however, this is a controversial matter in the council. indeed, unanimity is required even for this report to be implemented by the council. i regret to say that my own member state, the uk, is one of those which has 'reservations' about this; and some members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs feared that perhaps the uk or others might torpedo this report. but, more than that, this parliament has, since the start of the experiment, wholeheartedly supported the principle. i hope that this vote today will encourage the council to ensure fairness across all 25 member states for the remaining time of the current experiment; and i also say, with the full support of the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs berès, that we should be pressing the council to make this a permanent feature of our hopes of achieving the lisbon strategy. i hope parliament will support that.
in writing. i welcome this report fulfilling the european parliament's requirement to verify the credentials of its members, (under the terms of article 12 of the act concerning the election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, as amended by the council decision of 25 june/22 september 2002) working on an eu and member state level. this report highlights the need to update the current provisions of the rules of procedure, making them more compatible with the new provisions of the 1976 act. in particular, this report emphasises the need to combat certain loopholes arising in the transition from one parliament to the next. for example, dual parliamentary mandate issues.
in writing. this is a sensible arrangement for the bilateral management of the baltic sea fishery resources, integrating the existing bilateral agreements between the russian federation and estonia, finland, latvia, lithuania, poland and sweden within a single bilateral agreement. of course it is important place a high priority on maintaining stocks of fish. it should also be kept in mind that the greatest threat to living resources in the baltic sea comes from land and not from the sea, and the best way to limit the pollution of the sea is to integrate environmental protection requirements into the fisheries policy. this aspect should be one of the top priorities while negotiating a bilateral agreement with the community and the russian federation.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, in eu countries about one fortieth of tax revenue is spent by eu institutions. in britain, we are told that this is a small price to pay for the privilege of trading with our neighbours and for the prosperity the eu has brought us. however, we are beginning to recognise, as kindly confirmed by ex-commissioner kinnock, that we do not need to be in the eu to trade and cooperate with eu countries and that our prosperity might well be higher if we were not in the eu. they also tell us that the eu budget is small in comparison with national budgets. however, national budgets pay for some useful things, such as defence, education, health care and pensions. the eu budget pays for subsidies to agriculture – subsidies that agriculture would function better without. it pays for regional projects that would otherwise not have been considered worthwhile. it pays for poorly targeted overseas development aid. it pays for auditors to find out that 93% of reported spending was unsafe or riddled with errors. it pays for this parliament. let us stop arguing about how much should be spent on this or that project or initiative in vain pursuit of the lisbon agenda. let us look at the broader picture. as the last speaker has just said, several countries with their own budget problems want a limit of one per cent of gni. the commission rightly points out that it must be much larger if the expectations of the new accession countries are to be fulfilled. how much larger – two per cent, four per cent? if the eu were genuinely concentrating on the ideals it keeps proclaiming – peace, prosperity, strong economies – it would be acting very differently. it would not be looking at these various projects: it would be opening its markets properly, internally and externally; it would cease killing off our businesses with thousands of ill-judged prescriptive rules, and its budget could be a small fraction of one per cent of gdp.
mr president, these people have got a nerve and i am amazed they have the temerity to turn up here. they have not had their accounts signed off for the last ten years and they want more money to waste, to neglect, to give in fraud and corruption. had they been running a small company in my country, they would not only have been prosecuted, they would probably have been jailed! why should i vote for this? tell me! why should any of my constituents? why should any of my countrymen? in my country, there are 2.6 million pensioners living in poverty on means-tested benefits; there are 3.6 million children below the poverty level; there are 3.9 million childless adults living in poverty; and we are a rich country! we are the fourth-largest economy in the world. why are so many of my constituents living in poverty? because you lot get the money! because 19 billion pounds of it goes to the inefficient common agricultural policy to support inefficient french, italian and greek farmers. why should my constituents suffer for their fraud, their corruption, and their inefficiency? they should not. just taking back our money from the common agricultural policy would increase pensions by 30 pounds a week. were my constituents asked to give the money to france, italy and greece? no! were they consulted? no! were they given a vote? no! and would they have voted for it had they been? no, they would not; and neither will i. you can put your gavel down now, mr president, because i have finished on time.
mr president, i wish to refer to two aspects of this debate. the first is the references to agencies and to bioterrorism, and i link those two because part of the bioterrorism work is done through the new centre for disease control which has now been established in sweden. one of the complaints of this paper is that these have not been adequately funded, so that there is uncertainty about how they are to operate. our citizens believe that europe is very often engaged in spending money on activities that are less than necessary. there are some activities which they believe are fundamentally necessary. their safety is at the heart of that and it is in our interests and our responsibility to ensure that they are properly funded. therefore, i hope that in future the commission and my colleagues in this house will ensure that agencies dealing with issues such as food safety, medicines control and evaluation and disease control and prevention are properly dealt with. the second aspect relates to the work which lies ahead on vaccines and support for developing countries. we know how important they are – i myself have produced a report on the health threats to the countries of the developing world. we know that vaccination campaigns have been effective, but much more that can be done. in the last four years some 35 million children have been vaccinated – for example against hepatitis b – but millions of children are at risk and dying because adequate funds are not available. i very much welcome what is being done to put money into the vaccine funds, and i hope we can continue in that direction, because that, again, makes a difference of which we can be proud.
mr president, i would like to apologise yet again for not being at the conciliation meeting, which was a very lengthy and hard-fought affair. i pay tribute to the new commissioner, and particularly the minister, who was in charge. i heard reports that the council of ministers was at one in its stance on what the level of spending should be. as someone from the united kingdom – although not of the same political party as the government – i very much welcome its statement, together with that of five other countries, that there should be no level of spending above one per cent of gni or gdp. i am delighted that the outcome of this conciliation was exactly that. as regards the agencies, more thought needs to be given to the question of their income in the future. i welcome the move away from in-house activity, away from the commission and into arms-length agencies; but these have mushroomed, which is a sign of their success. we now need to look at how much more income they can achieve from outside sources instead of just being given grant-in-aid or subsidies from this parliament. i speak here as someone who was chief executive of the national building agency in the united kingdom. we had to turn around very quickly from being 85 per cent supported by grants or subsidies to being wholly self-supporting. it can be done. however, i am not saying the change needs to be that vicious. finally, with regard to structural funding, the very sensible agreement that was reached, namely, to reduce the spend in 2005 but to have an arrangement in readiness agreed by all parties that a supplementary and amending budget could be brought in at any time, means both that we have control over what is happening in 2005 and that reasons have to be shown why we need real spend in 2006.
mr president, in my one minute of speaking time i shall focus on regional policy and specifically the risk that there may not be a regional policy for some states after the conclusion of the negotiations on the financial perspectives. commissioner, i welcome your commitment to the original commission proposals, although we have heard from other sources that the commission – somewhere – is preparing for alternative outcomes. i would ask you to consider publishing what analysis you have carried out of alternative outcomes of the financial perspectives. that would be particularly helpful to the debate within our own nation-states. my own country, the uk – as opposed to my own nation, scotland – is putting forward a position that is as unconstructive as it is unclear. an objective analysis of what the uk position would mean in terms of numbers and political ramifications would be a hugely helpful contribution to the debate. the uk contribution to the debate thus far, with its position on the uk rebate, the statistical effect, the nationalisation of structural funds and the limiting of the eu budget to one per cent of gni is nothing less than a cumulative act of vandalism. an objective analysis of this contribution from the commission would be a very helpful debating tool for us in the united kingdom.
commission. these charges may vary between member states and be absent in some cases. but this is no different from other taxes and charges that vary between member states and have implications for companies. in the end, it is a political decision for each member state to take as to whether it wants to finance administrative cuts like this through the general budget, or via direct charges. since the question of charges for issuing greenhouse gas emission permits is not within the commission's competence, the commission has no overview of how much each member state currently charges for issuing greenhouse gas emission permits under the emissions trading directive. the review of the emissions trading directive will start early in 2005. it will be a major stakeholder survey and will cover a broad range of issues, including the effect of the scheme on the extra-community competitiveness of european companies.
commissioner, emission trading certificates are a very important aspect of the european union's meeting its kyoto objectives. it seems to me very unsatisfactory that you are not able to inform the member of the current state of play as regards each individual member state. will the commission, in moving towards a review in 2005, survey the 25 member states to establish what is the existing practice and ensure that a level playing field is created post-2005?
commission. the honourable member raised the issue of the provision of subtitling and audio description last year in parliament's resolution on television without frontiers. it is certain that digital broadcasting offers improved subtitling and audio description when compared with the analogue system. there are already standards for these services. i see the switchover to digital television as an opportunity for enhanced services of this type. it is not a threat. as i told parliament at my hearing in september, i believe that the development of new technologies must be to the benefit of citizens and of their welfare. that is why my services will shortly publish a call for tenders, launching a study on accessibility to digital television. this study will focus on developing policy models in order to help member states implement assistive services. i would also like to say that there is no requirement in european law for broadcasters in member states to provide subtitling and audio descriptions. provision of assistive service is handled under the subsidiarity principle, but there are of course some areas coordinated at community level by the television without frontiers directive. within the framework of this directive, i have called on the contact committee to provide information on the measures taken by the member states in order to enhance the opportunities for access of visually- and hearing-impaired people to television programmes. we are now in the process of collecting and analysing the member states' replies. our aim is to promote best practice among regulators and industry groups and we will work with member states to promote availability of assistive services and to foster an economically viable market for equipment that addresses accessibility needs.
the commissioner will not be surprised that with a new commission we raise these issues once again. in fact, she would probably be surprised if we did not. i accept what she says in relation to the television without frontiers directive, but i would ask her to keep a very close eye on this issue. subsidiarity is a fine thing, but she will know that the european union has been funding conferences on subtitling for some 20 years and more, and that the actual increase in its incidence among broadcasters is very limited indeed. will she, for example, ensure that a benchmarking process takes place so that we see a gradual increase year by year? can she today comment on when she will bring forward the results of the analysis that she has undertaken in relation to the contact group and in what form she will do so; and can she give hope to blind and deaf people throughout europe that better television services will prevail?
commission. the honourable member asked if the commissioner agrees with the adjusted interpretation of paragraph 14 of the united kingdom privacy and electronic communications (ec directive) regulations, 2003, which deals with the use of location data. since this question is related to an interpretation of national law, i would refer the honourable member to mr richard thomas, the information commissioner in the united kingdom, who is responsible for enforcing these privacy and electronic communication regulations. the regulations transpose the european directive on privacy and economic communication – the eprivacy directive. as the member of the commission responsible for this directive, i am pleased to indicate the following elements for the benefit of any national interpretation exercise. this eu eprivacy directive provides that location data may be used, but only with the consent of the subscriber or user. prior to that consent, the user or subscriber has to be informed of the types of data processed, the purpose and duration of the processing, and whether the data will be passed on to third parties for the purpose of the service. however, the commission is not of the view that the directive requires the user or subscriber to be informed of or consent to the location prior to every single attempt by the locator to locate him. nevertheless, the directive requires that subscribers and users, even if they have subscribed to a location-based service, be able to temporarily block the locating facility.
thank you, commissioner. i will take on board your comments about referring this back to the uk. however, i want to follow this up. under the current provisions, although permission should be sought, there are no guarantees that it will be. if somebody can be tracked without their knowing it, that has very serious implications. for the person being tracked, their personal security is violated; they may be, for instance, under the threat of violence. there is a whole range of very serious civil liberties issues here. i urge you to take this very seriously. i will take it up in the uk and hope that you will pursue it here.
mr president, on the future of european parliament funding and financing, i accept that it is very important that the commission and the council of ministers, and indeed parliament, try after the first seven years to think about rationalising during the five years of parliament's term. we have the advantage of a fixed term, we ought to use that for future financial perspective periods. i very much agreed this afternoon with mr van den berg when he said that we must do something in the nation-states to tighten up on accountability. that leads me on to our philosophy in the british conservative group, which is that we should try to do what we can in europe and do it effectively and efficiently. if that means doing less, then let us do it better. too often we try to increase the powers in europe and increase our coverage of all sorts of items. that does not just cost money, it leads to further dilution of concentration, of accountability, and that is extremely important. the other point i wish to raise is about own resources. we need to consider the method of own resources. we have a perfectly acceptable method that works quite well and we should not make fundamental changes to it. i would not ever like to see the imposition of a european union tax, which has been thought about for the period from 2013 onwards. that would be a retrograde step. we need to have a council of ministers that is all-powerful in my book, even speaking as an mep. basically it pays the bills, and that is fine by me, provided we can control what we are doing and provide proper accountability in future.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to start by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs and the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs for their interest and their commitment with regard to this report. i am sure that we would all have liked more committee time, not least to have debated the amendments presented in committee and the overall content more thoroughly, as i am aware that certain difficulties still remain. but there is a great deal on which the majority of us from the committee agree and i trust the council and the commission will remember that. we welcome the commission's two communications as an important step in the development of a common asylum policy. we support the stress on measures such as the resettlement programmes, protected entry procedures and support in the region as being additional and complementary to the existing rights to seek asylum within the european union, and agree that those internal asylum systems should be of high quality. we agree that we do not view the outsourcing of internal eu responsibilities to camps in countries such as libya as offering any sustainable solution, or even a short-term solution, to those seeking asylum. as regards the single procedure, we recognise that it is better both for the asylum applicant and the authorities if all relevant information is examined at one time, and we welcome the fact that the commission has laid out a common order of decision-making. however, we also recognise the possible protection gap in those member states that only employ full refugee status and have no practice of subsidiary protection, compared with member states using both categories. i recognise that this is a difficult issue for some members and that paragraphs 37 and 38 of the report may seem to pre-empt the reconsultation process on the procedures directive in which we hope parliament will be involved very shortly. i would welcome the views of members on the possible loss of those paragraphs. parliament, however, fully agrees with the need to frontload the decision-making process. we support the need for the better use of in-country information by better-trained staff. it is appalling that someone's life should depend on an opinion that was never tested for its veracity. this is the situation facing ramzi isalam, a homosexual algerian man who may be deported from the uk to algeria as he is deemed not to be in need of subsidiary protection. this is due to a line in a canadian diplomat's report some years ago, which is still included in the country information the uk uses. all the other opinions of that diplomat have been deleted over time. the eu has to do better than that in terms of the quality of the information we use to decide on people's lives. more controversially, the majority view in committee was that we need to have in place some form of monitoring or report-back system on what happens to those who are returned having made unsuccessful claims for protection. then we might know if it is really safe to return others. the committee fully supports the need for a better coordinated approach to support in the region for the vast majority of the world's refugees who never even try to come to the european union, contrary to many newspaper reports and some politicians' views. we recognise that such coordination is a challenge, but a piecemeal approach creates confusion. we want to know how the commission proposes to improve such coordination in future. we also agree that we need new money, not a reallocation of existing aid budgets, to offer any long-term support to help improve capacity and the quality of response in the regions of origin in full cooperation with the countries concerned. what else do we agree on? we agree that resettlement programmes can be of great value, especially when they cater for those most at risk in an already precarious situation; that these programmes can be used within the european union to help develop a public understanding as to why refugees seek protection; and that this understanding can help to combat all forms of discrimination, not least racism and xenophobia. we also agree that we need a common foreign and security policy that commits the eu as a matter of priority to conflict prevention and the resolution of long-term conflicts. in that context we welcome the proposed eu regional protection programmes and wish to be involved in their development and assessment. as you can see, there is much that we agree on and that is not in dispute in this debate. whatever the final vote tomorrow, that is the message i would wish us to convey to both the council and the commission. we agree that the commission's dual approach – to aim for a universally high standard of application of the current directives within the eu and to improve the conditions for the vast majority of refugees within the region they are fleeing – is a reasonable and indeed ambitious programme. parliament will wish to be fully involved in the development of such initiatives.
mr president, my group supports this report wholeheartedly because we believe that a common asylum procedure is something that many across this house talk about, but the reality of actually making it happen requires support of the lambert report. it is difficult to go from the position of saying that we want burden sharing, a common asylum policy and to support the tampere agenda, to the practical application of that in a report which moves forward some of the things that we want to see. as someone who dealt with asylum cases for many years, i see the lambert report as a progressive report, but one which can be supported across this house. we talk about good asylum decisions. it is a problem in every member state that asylum decision-making is so poor that we are not served well in terms of allowing genuine asylum seekers to make a case and actually enter a country. that is bad for all of us. poor asylum decision-making is addressed in this report. we want to step up protection capacity in regions of origin and we are defining in this report the difference between transit camps and outsourcing our responsibilities to third countries, and regional protection. i want to register our support for this report.
(the speaker spoke in irish) the world assesses the european union's commitment to equality, justice and fair-play by the way it treats those fleeing war and persecution. mrs lambert is to be strongly commended for her report and for the focus that it gives to the humanitarian and the civil rights issues which lie at the heart of the asylum debate. i echo her call for the highest possible international standards and human rights to guide eu policy. her rejection of the so-called 'holding centres', even as a short-term solution to the issue of dealing with asylum applicants, is to be welcomed and strongly endorsed. the emphasis in the report on speeding up asylum requests and ensuring efficiency and transparency in the decision-making process is also welcome. conflict, poverty and socio-political instability affect millions of people across the world. we therefore need to shift the emphasis towards promoting conflict resolution and prevention under the auspices of the united nations. the long-term solution to issues of asylum is to reduce conflict and poverty globally. the eu has a major role to play in this regard. we must get the policy right. we must demonstrate to the world that when it comes to human rights, justice and equality, the policy implementation of the eu is as good as its rhetoric. i also strongly support the amendments. (the speaker spoke in irish)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, this is an excellent report which we on this side of the house support. we support it for many of the reasons which the previous speaker mentioned, including in terms of the science and pragmatic facts of this debate. we do not take an overtly ideological stance, but there is some ideology in the debate and the ideology says that, unless we deal with harm reduction, unless we understand addiction and unless we understand the explosion in crime which leads from drugs to the domestic crime that we suffer in all of our european union member states, we cannot tackle the problem efficiently and effectively. this report – which was a much amended report with approximately 106 amendments in committee – shows two things. one is that there is an active interest in this house in an eu drugs strategy. secondly we all know as meps that there is a very strong public appetite for there to be an eu strategy. so what is that strategy to be? the answer to that question is very much contained in this report. for example, in this report we talk not about being hard on drugs or soft on drugs, but about actually looking at intelligent harm-reduction strategies. we know the connections between drug use and hiv. if we ignore those in this house, then there will be further harm, further crime and further suffering. we want to lay much greater stress on harm reduction, but also on rehabilitation. we want to provide appropriate funding for information measures and not to pretend that the public has sufficient information about this problem. we also want to take appropriate steps to prevent the profits of illegal drug-trafficking from being used to fund everything from international terrorism to other forms of crime. this report is thus not 'hard' or 'soft'. it is effective. it tackles crime, as well as the harm being done to individuals. in this report we also urge governments and national parliaments to take effective measures to prevent drugs entering prisons. mr catania continually stressed this point, because it is too often ignored in member states. it is for us in the european union to tackle some of the difficult issues across member states which sometimes individual member states are not emphasising enough. prisons are now multiplying the effects of drug harm. people are coming out of prisons and committing more crime. this is a serious issue for the european union. there is a strong public appetite for us as meps and for the commission to tackle drugs with an effective drugs strategy. the old style of clichés and information about drugs has long gone. we now need a more effective strategy. this report places the right emphasis on harm reduction, tackling addiction and dealing with the source of drug problems, rather than expounding clichés about the effects. it is a good report which we will support. it has been much amended and i think that, in the light of those amendments, it is a report that the whole house should support. we on this side will do so.
rapporteur.– mr president, may i begin by saying what a pleasure it is to be here, and i hope that tomorrow when the vote is taken we will have an agreement. i see mr jørgensen is here, and i want to pass some comments about the way this parliament has worked. mr jørgensen came in very late on, because he is a new member. my liberal, socialist and green colleagues have worked very closely together on this report. i thank them, because it left me in a position of great strength when it came to negotiating with the council, and that is a position all of us in this august house aim for in order to be able to put our points forward. what is this report about? the idea was to put in place a central harmonised system for the control of certain types of chemicals and fix levels of mrls – maximum residue levels – of chemicals in foodstuffs. the one thing that has not escaped me, but may well have escaped other members, is that this is a forerunner of the reach directive, which will be one of the biggest reports to come through parliament. if they can handle it in the way that we handled it – i say 'we' because all our colleagues, as i said earlier, worked together – then we shall be in an extremely strong position. what does it mean to consumers, the people who will be affected by this legislation? it means safer food across europe; it means that if you buy a tomato in ireland that has come from spain you can guarantee the quality and safety of that product. it provides a guarantee that british lamb sold – dare i say – to the french is safe. that is extremely important for the consumer. we have included a number of recommendations where, for instance, food is tested at the point of sale, which we have all agreed on. however, we also agreed that imports need to be of the same level of quality. this is important for people who import into the european union. the levels of pesticides have to be of the same standard – not that they necessarily were or were not; but it is important that we get that message across for people who come into the european union. i shall mention briefly some things we fought over and had great debates about. good agricultural practices – gap – was a difficult issue, but we got a definition with the help of the commission, which i am delighted to see here today. our colleagues worked closely with the commission and, as i said, the council. this is very important in setting a precedent for the future, so that we know exactly what good agricultural practices are. it was somewhat difficult to get a position on synergistic effects, but we now have a situation where we know exactly where we are going to be with those effects. for those who do not know, synergistic effects are a mixture of chemicals possibly used on a crop, and there is no particular definition of how they are traceable. we have put in place legislation which will work in the future. it has left a position open for future member states to be able to define exactly what the situation is on synergistic effects. i am concerned about how governments will implement this – because it is a regulation and therefore has to be implemented. i read recently in a paper that governments tend to gold-plate things. it is important, when we are pushing this through, that governments do not gold-plate it: we want an equal footing. it is interesting that the british minister of agriculture, mrs beckett, has said that she will decide when farmers can go into the field, or when it is too wet or has been raining. i wonder exactly how she is going to do that. nevertheless, it is important that we do not place governments or countries at a disadvantage compared to other member states. that is why this legislation has been put in place. it is workable, it is a good regulation. just in case the joint resolutions we have agreed do not go through, the ppe-de group has covered itself; but i expect all the joint amendments to be adopted tomorrow. i look forward to seeing member states implementing and working well with it.
mr president, it is very late now and very few of us are left but nevertheless we are dealing with a very important issue. it is a pity that once again in this parliament legislation is left until the end of the day. in a recent opinion poll 77 per cent of british people said that they are concerned about pesticides in food so, as everyone has said, what we are doing here resonates with public opinion. i am very pleased that we have a compromise and that we agree on the main things. there are two issues which particularly concern me and i am very pleased that we have secured a deal on them. the first is cumulative and synergistic effects: cocktail effects. we were told that there is no methodology at present to measure this effect but this is an effect which research suggests is at the root of our problems. i am very pleased to hear the commissioner say that he is going to take this research forward and support parliament in making sure that we get more research into the cumulative effects. that is why i tabled the amendment to recital 5. one problem is that a lot of experts say that these cumulative effects are unfounded, but we have nothing to prove or disprove this. we must get this research, it is very important. the second issue mentioned by mr jørgensen is about the effects on children and the unborn. a lot of research suggests that children and the unborn have in some way been affected by either pesticides or chemicals in our environment. in a recent radio programme about chemicals they did a series of tests on a grandmother, a mother, and a granddaughter. these tests showed that the highest level of chemicals was found not in the grandmother – who had lived through the highest levels of pollution in our streets in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s – but in the granddaughter who was 15 years old. they found in her blood chemicals that had been taken off our shelves many years beforehand. we know that some of these substances come in through pesticides. it is extremely important that we start looking not just at testing on adults but at testing on children and looking at the effects on babies in the womb. public confidence in food safety and food standards is very low. in the survey that i referred to earlier, over 50 % of british people said they did not believe that government reassurances about pesticides were accurate. consequently we need to get it right. scientific research shows that imported products have more pesticides than products grown within the eu. this is extremely important legislation. i am very grateful to mr sturdy, mr jørgensen and all those within the commission and the council who worked very hard to achieve a compromise that we can all support tomorrow.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, the netherlands presidency is likely to be remembered for the decision on turkey. a majority of the members of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe believe that turkey fulfils the political criteria and that you should open negotiations. it seems to us important that europe should not define itself as a christian club. and yet, by the same token, we must beware of an aggressive secularism, which could drive away many of those who belong in our community. i pay tribute to the work of mr eurlings in drawing up the report on turkey for this house; a report which i think commands widespread support. mr president- in-office, when it discusses turkey, your council will meet in secret. it is important that in this house, when we discuss and vote on turkey, we do so openly and in public and not in secret. (applause) i also recommend to the council that we have a discussion in our union about the european union's capacity to absorb new member states, particularly countries beyond those which currently have candidate status. i recommend that we have a discussion on the nature of the european union, because it is our vision of the european union that will determine its borders, rather than our vision of countries wishing to join. the council will also discuss bulgaria and romania. my group has long believed that these two countries – and indeed others – should have separate accession treaties. bulgaria closed all of its negotiating chapters earlier this year and has made good progress. in romania, progress has been much less easy to see. for me, the election results this week give cause for hope. i believe that the concerns of many can now be set aside and that with resolve and goodwill, we can bring romania into the european union effectively in 2007. (interjection from mr schulz)i say to my friend mr schulz: for heaven's sake stop defending corrupt socialist regimes, whether in the maldives, the seychelles or in romania. i thought mr basescu was actually a member of the socialist international, but i may be wrong. (protests from mr schulz)you should not be defending regimes which are doing things that are not worthy of your party. (applause from the right and the centre)i believe that we now have the chance to move ahead with romania and we must do so. on croatia, president-in-office, i recommend that you hold open the door, but insist on full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. high on your agenda, too, will be terrorism and i pay tribute to the work of the council's anti-terrorism coordinator. you need promptly to put into practice measures that have been identified in the hague programme relevant to combating terrorism, in particular, measures relating to exchange of information between member states. efforts to combat terrorism must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and the council must stress the importance of promoting respect based on universal values, tolerance, dialogue and democratic participation. too often, our approach in this union to the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice has concentrated on security and justice at the expense of freedom. i hope that your presidency, mr president-in-office, will ensure that the balance is set right. we need to get our police forces and judiciary working together. we need to move the european union from being simply an economic community into seeing itself as a community of values. but for that to have the support of our citizens, it means recognising the fundamental importance of the values outlined in our charter of fundamental rights. the appropriate financial framework will be discussed in a building aptly named after a dutchman, mr justus lipsius. my group welcomes the methodical approach of your presidency to preparations for the union's budget from 2007 to 2013, but we are not sure whether your building blocks are independent building blocks or a rubik's cube. is any outcome possible other than the one per cent to which your country was a signatory in the letter to mr prodi? it seems to my group that we need to give the european union the resources it needs. it is better to spend 1.2 per cent well than to spend less than 1 per cent badly. while, as a scot, i welcome the approach of my soulmates in the netherlands to the financing of the union, i believe that the council must give the union the resources it needs. you must also heed the report of the court of auditors and tackle the failure in our member states to put adequate controls in place on the spending of european union money. in conclusion, the council will discuss esdp. operation 'althea' is working successfully and three other ongoing missions are examples of solid progress. let the union's voice be heard in our neighbourhood policy and in our relations with china, the united states and russia. although the headline of the forthcoming european council may be turkey – and we should expect no less for a pillar of european civilisation – beyond the headlines there is much important work to do in foreign and security policy. (applause)
mr president, i want to make my point of order just as mr schulz made his. last month you refused a point of order from me because i did not mention the number of the rule. on this occasion, mr schulz was allowed to make a point of order without mentioning a rule number. could you say what the rules are and why there is one rule for him and another for me?
i am merely asking why there is one rule for him and one rule for me. you were in the chair both times. is it not time that you understood the rules?
mr president, nothing could show mr barroso's contempt for this parliament more than the fact that he could only attend this debate for a few minutes before disappearing. on the subject of ukraine, after the way in which he pushed through the election of his criminals and commissioners, let us stop pretending that we can in any way lecture ukraine on democracy. with regard to turkey, we will not be supporting its membership application, just as we did not in the last parliament, on the grounds of both cost and likely migration patterns. had anybody in authority been here, i would have asked for confirmation that the cost could be in the order of gbp 19 billion or eur 28 million. this means that turkey is costing us as much as the ten countries that acceded to this union this year. could we please know what the cost will be, because for the first time you are hearing from a nation that is actually paying for it. although the labour party in britain wants to put gbp 5 billion towards it, the conservative party believes that gbp 5 billion is a good price to pay and believes you can still have tax cuts. presumably it also thinks that pigs can fly. can we actually have confirmation of the cost of 19 billion? also, will some eur 700 million be spent on around 60 diverse training projects in turkey? is that the true cost, or is there a more up-to-date figure? we know that turkey's population growth rate remains phenomenal and that it has serious economic problems, including 70 per cent inflation. seventy per cent inflation during the passage of the maastricht treaty would have caused some raising of eyebrows, but it is just a political project here, is it not? especially for those who do not pay. we also know that human rights concerns are widespread. on that basis i would say, on behalf of the uk independence party, that we will offer turkey friendship and free trade, but we will not offer the country political union – especially with the corruption and fraud that are endemic in this place. (applause of the ind/dem group)
mr president, the meeting of the european council later this week is of historic significance, primarily because of the fundamental issue of the opening of negotiations with turkey on future membership of the eu. there are very strongly held views on this issue across this parliament and beyond. i acknowledge that. however, the policy of my party is clear: we believe that in the right circumstances turkish membership of the union could be good for europe, good for turkey and good for relations with the islamic world and security in our societies. i accept that the negotiations with turkey are likely to be lengthy and at times difficult, but this week the council should take a first step in that process. like any other applicant country, turkey must satisfy all the criteria required in terms of human rights and economic and political reform. this might be very difficult, but by agreeing to the formal opening of negotiations the council will send a clear message to the turkish government that we expect it to work assiduously to achieve the steps necessary for eventual membership. the issue of bulgarian and romanian membership of the union will also feature on the agenda and the objective there must be to affirm the accession of both countries whilst recognising that a great amount of work remains to be done – in particular in the case of romania – to ensure they remain on track. the issue of economic reform in the union was discussed at the last council in november. however, i hope that the netherlands presidency and the heads of government will reaffirm their commitment to kick-starting the lisbon agenda. earlier this week the socialist group expressed concern at the neo-liberal nature of the new commission. i want to make it clear that we expect mr barroso and his team to be true to their earlier statements on the need to reinvigorate the economy in europe and the crack-down on red tape and regulation. the outdated social model so beloved of the left is to be replaced with a vigorous, dynamic and radical reform programme. this is the only way to deal with the high unemployment and sluggish growth that has led to europe lagging behind the united states and the burgeoning economies of china and india. if the commission acts in this way, it will get the full support of british conservatives.
mr president, i wish to focus this debate on the ongoing work of the council to prepare and initiate the external relations service in advance of ratification and adoption of the constitution, for it is the constitution which validates that service. i have in my possession a letter from mrs wallström – the vice-president of the commission, who is present this morning – confirming that the outcome of the debate on the constitution should neither be presumed nor pre-empted in any fashion. yet that is precisely what is being done in this ongoing work on the new external relations service. that is wrong. as an individual member of this house i protest against it. either we acknowledge and accept the right of the nation-states to determine the fate of the constitution, its new institutions and its working apparatuses such as the foreign service, or we do not. both the council and the commission arrogantly continue to work as if the constitution was already approved. it is a grave insult to and assault on the rights of nations and indeed the rights of people.
mr president, this has been a difficult year. it started for me with a letter bomb exploding in my office. since then we have had the madrid bombings. i would hope that at this time of the year our thoughts are with the victims and their families. outside the european union there was the tragedy of beslan, and then today's bus siege in greece. all this reinforces the fact that the security of our citizens has to be an absolute priority for the eu but, as a number of colleagues have already pointed out, that needs real action. far too often cooperation among our police, judicial and intelligence services is cooperation in name only. even a short conversation with anybody who works for europol would reinforce that. member states have to deliver on their promises. we need action, not words. the same applies to the economic agenda. member states have to be called to account by the presidency for the things they have promised to do. in particular, we have to get much more investment into people. we particularly need to deliver on the active labour market policies that mr wim kok has reported on in the past. too many people in the european union are inactive. we are far too prepared to pay people to be on the scrap heap. we need much more proactive policies to make work pay, and that includes more childcare and more education and training. we cannot simply write people off as being unemployable. sound finances are the basis of a good economy and therefore we are right to review the budget. as my colleague mrs dührkop dührkop said, it must not be some sort of mathematical exercise. we have to look at what we do. what is the added value in doing something at european level? what is the best way of getting value for money for our citizens? at the same time, we always have to remember that solidarity is the cornerstone of the european union. you remove that cornerstone and you undermine the very foundations of the union. that is why this debate on finances is vital to the future of the european union.
mr president, i rise because in ten years of service in this house i cannot recall an instance similar to that regarding today's vote on the eurlings report …
i apologise, mr president, i should like to make a point of order under rule 162. as i was saying, in ten years' service i cannot recall a similar instance to that with which we are faced today. we consistently demand of the council and the commission openness and transparency in political decisions . .. (applause)… and it is an extraordinary practice for members of this house to ask for a secret ballot on a political decision under rule 162, which is designed for the appointment of individuals. how can we be accountable to our electors? how can we defend ourselves against charges of shame and hypocrisy? mr president, i urge you to face down this ramshackle coalition of cowards and autocrats, … (loud applause)… to declare a secret vote inadmissible on the grounds that it is unworthy of this house and to seek an early change to the rules of procedure to clarify this rule.
mr president, firstly, this is one rule that i did not draft. secondly, let me underline – before you make your ruling – the significance of the word 'may'. rule 162(2) of the rules of procedure says that voting 'may' also take place by secret ballot, if requested by at least one-fifth of the members. it does not say 'shall'. the previous paragraph says 'shall' concerning voting on nominations of individuals. there is a clear difference between the two cases of 'may' and 'shall'…
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on turkey and i believe we did good work today. we have given encouragement to those inside turkey and indeed to those outside turkey who have campaigned and worked hard for a secular turkish state, a turkish state based on democracy and a turkish state that respects human rights. we have also sent a strong message to the 15 million muslims who already live inside the european union that this is not an exclusive christian club. so all in all i am very pleased with the work we have carried out this morning.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of opening negotiations with turkey for membership of the european union. turkey does not as yet meet the criteria for membership. its record on human rights with respect to its kurdish and assyrian minorities is deeply flawed. its record with respect to trade union rights is poor. it has failed properly to come to terms with the armenian genocide. yet none of these should be seen as barriers to starting a process that will enable the commission and parliament to press for their correction. a 'yes' vote today will support the campaigns of all progressive forces in turkey to shed the last remnants of turkey's authoritarian past. if together we can achieve these changes i will support turkey joining the union, as my europe is based on shared values that are not limited to one particular set of religious values and beliefs. if we do not achieve this, i will vote 'no', even if the economic conditions have been met.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party strongly welcomes the clear recommendation in this resolution, that eu leaders should announce the opening of accession negotiations with turkey without delay. we recognise the sensitivities with regard to issues surrounding turkey's relations with armenia, however these will be dealt with during the negotiations process. the report does not in any way imply that resolution of these issues is a precondition to opening talks. we also register our opposition to any permanent safeguards affecting free movement of workers. turkey should receive equal, fair and proper treatment during the negotiations.
in writing. i have voted for turkey's progress towards accession despite having serious reservations. i would like to emphasise that my reason for voting for turkey's progress towards accession is because it is a muslim country and will serve as an important bridge between europe and the middle east in particular. i have concerns, however, that turkey still has a very large number of human rights abuses. i also have concerns that a country with such a massive number of people living in poverty will not be able to reach the levels acquired in the acquis communautaire, and i fear that the emphasis has been on the market access to turkey rather than the need for turkey to conform to the social and environmental standards in the eu. i am not interested in seeing the enlargement of europe simply in order to see a larger market. an equal emphasis must be placed on social and environmental considerations.
in writing. i welcome this report and the objectives contained within it. however, we must remember that having established regulations for maximum residue levels of pesticides in food and feed of plant and animal origin, the main priority must be that it is properly implemented and regulated. consumers deserve to be protected and thorough implementation can safe-guard their rights.
in writing. i supported, spoke in favour and voted in favour of jean denise lambert’s report on asylum procedure and protection in regions of origin (2004/2121(ini)) on asylum. the overwhelming majority of the report was positive and in line with my own party policy. however i have strong reservations about point 19 when it states ‘considers that a decisive common foreign and security policy committing the eu as a matter of priority to the resolution of long terms conflicts and conflict prevention………’ sinn féin believes that the eu through its member states must play a greater role in conflict prevention and resolution and in promoting dialogue and negotiation as an alternative to military intervention. however we are wary of the moves within the eu towards the development of a common foreign and secutiry policy as this would undermine national soveregnity. the most appropriate vehicle for dealing with such issues is through member state cooperation and under the auspices of the united nations. the eu should play a more pro-active role on conflict resolution and prevention within this context.
in writing. i welcome this report as it stresses the need for a high quality asylum procedure that acts acquiescent and compatible with the geneva conventions in addition to other existing international legal instruments. i am in agreement with this report whereby the speed and administrative efficiency are important in assessing any system but they cannot be the only criteria when people’s futures are at risk. i commend the report for recognizing that although the intention to develop high quality protection regimes in conjunction with receiving countries is to be welcomed but should not become a means to enhance border control with the intent of preventing people moving on or a way of abdicating our own protection responsibilities.
in writing. this is a commendable attempt to draw attention to the eu's increasing drug problem and find solutions using a scientific and practical approach. steps to combat the drugs trade would threaten one of the most important sources of income for organised crime and terrorist organisations. for example, according to the europol report on organised crime, drugs production and trafficking continue to be the main activity pursued by criminal groups in the eu. no other field of organised crime is quite so profitable. i welcome the view that a community project should be launched for the purpose of introducing alternative forms of detention, so that drugs repression ceases to focus exclusively on imprisonment. the anti-drugs strategy should be regarded as a form of social intervention concentrating on the reasons for social unrest with a view to preventing drugs use by refining a strategy of repression which is currently targeted solely at drug users.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party voted for the catania report on the eu drugs strategy because we believe it provides a comprehensive approach to tackling the harm done by particular drugs to individuals and to the spiral of crime, violence and trafficking caused by the trade in particular substances. it addresses harm reduction, addiction and crime. on amendment 2 concerning the issue of the distribution of particular substances under controlled circumstances, the eplp voted against both parts because we do not believe this amendment enhances the report or is in line with the uk government's drugs strategy, which the eplp fully supports.
rapporteur.– madam president, it is almost nine years to the day since bulgaria formally applied for membership of the european union. since then the country has undergone tremendous political and economic changes: it became a member of nato earlier this year and is now well on course to join the european union on 1 january 2007. i see no significant obstacles to this and i trust that the european council, when it meets at the end of this week, will not only endorse this view but also set a date early in the new year for signature of the accession treaty. bulgaria must be judged on its own merits and its progress should not necessarily be linked to that of any other candidate country. that is why a separate accession treaty for bulgaria may be necessary. let us look at some of the changes that have taken place in bulgaria. on the one hand we can recognise that the accession criteria and deadlines set by the european commission have provided an external catalyst for change. however, on the other hand, internal dynamics have greatly altered the political and social landscape in bulgaria as it cast off its old mantle following the collapse of communism in 1990. these changes are taking place not just because the european union is insisting on them, but because they are good for bulgaria and they are what the bulgarians themselves want. bulgaria is now a fully functioning market economy and has been recognised as such since 2002. macroeconomic stability has been maintained, including adequate price stability and sustainable public finances and external accounts. to take just a couple of key economic indicators, bulgaria's gdp grew by 6 per cent in the first quarter of 2004, up from 4.3 per cent in 2003, and one of the highest rates among eu candidates and new member states. the unemployment rate has consistently fallen since 2002: at 12 per cent it is still too high, but it is falling. foreign direct investment is at record levels this year. enormous progress has also been made on privatisation: 80 per cent of the economy is now in the private sector. i strongly support the ongoing reform of bulgaria's public administration, with the adoption of amendments to the civil service law. improvements have also been made in the judicial system: there have been positive developments with regard to the recruitment and appointment of judges. however, more needs to be done, in particular in relation to pre-trial procedures and the position of the prosecutor general. however, it is not now just plain sailing. there are still areas of concern that i have been highlighting since 1999. organised crime and corruption are an obstacle to reform in bulgaria, having knock-on effects in all sectors of the economy and society. i have drawn particular attention to the need for more human and financial resources to be targeted to bring about major improvements in the welfare of children and in childcare institutions. i have called for a well-resourced, single government agency, with the power to ensure that child welfare reform happens. the same strategic approach must be adopted for the integration of the roma community into bulgarian society. bulgaria, assisted by the european commission, must make an even more determined effort to expedite the integration of roma into mainstream society, particularly through educational and employment opportunities, improved living conditions and access to healthcare and family planning. there is also another side to this problem: the roma themselves must adapt. this point may be unpopular in some circles but it is the only way that real change will be brought about on the ground for the roma. over the past four years over eur 160 million of community funds have been directed at roma issues. however, change must happen from the inside as well as on the part of government. the european union's enlargement to the east and south-east marks a momentous change in europe. we have finally put an end to the hostilities and the divisions of the cold war. history is being written as we speak – in ukraine, for instance – and this morning parliament gave its green light to the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. great changes are taking place on our continent. we are in a time of transition and we must all work hard to ensure that the tide of change shifts in the right direction. within europe this means refocusing the nature and objectives of the european union. this means the eu doing less but doing it better. i wish to thank colleagues across parliament for their support and assistance in my work as rapporteur. there will be an opportunity for a more comprehensive report on bulgaria's accession early in the new year. my report this time is deliberately concise. some amendments were included during the committee stage, but i do not feel that i can support any of the amendments now proposed. finally, i wish to take this opportunity to highlight the plight of bulgarian nurses incarcerated in libya and now under threat of the death penalty. i urge all members to sign written declaration no 61 calling for their early release. bulgaria knows the challenges that lie ahead. on 17 december i trust the european council will formally conclude bulgaria's negotiations and set the date for signature of the accession treaty in spring 2005. this will be a great achievement, but reform and change must continue both in bulgaria and in the eu itself.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, it has been a pleasure to work with mr moscovici on this fine report. indeed i enjoyed and valued his work in his earlier capacity as a minister. it is just as much of a pleasure to work with him as a rapporteur. i thank mr moscovici for this fine work. i believe that president iliescu – as he retires from his second and final term of office – and his government, as well as prime minister nastase, have concluded their work on a high note. they should be proud of their successful achievement of the enlargement process for romania. it is easy today to damn romania with faint praise, to say that she has done well but has a huge amount more to do. that may indeed be true, but let us recall the low position from which she has come and has advanced so rapidly. none of us would have dreamed five years ago, when the helsinki council declared romania to be one of the 'regatta principle' countries, that she could have completed the chapters so rapidly and indeed so well. all the chapters are closed. of course, implementation must be high on the agenda of the new government and it will have to have very competent people to implement this matter. they have to apply the acquis communautaire properly and respect the deadlines. a great deal of capacity-building has to happen. administrative capacity is vital in applying the acquis communautaire, as well as ongoing training of staff. however, let us remember what an enormous amount has been achieved. one of the ways in which we could help is by trying to stop the brain drain. romania needs its young people very badly. we should do all we can to strengthen the position of higher education in romania, to help the country offer jobs, training and workshops to young people. it would be very easy, as romania comes ever closer to the union, for us to be a magnet for her young people to leave the country. that would be a very great pity. it is those young people who will assist romania in implementing the acquis correctly and improving the absorption capacity for the funding that the commission is putting in. i congratulate the commission too for the very dedicated work which colleagues and i have seen carried out over the last few years. i have put forward one amendment, at which i would ask mr moscovici and other colleagues to look carefully. they have acknowledged that i have been concentrating in particular on the issue of children. while i understood and respected mr moscovici's support for prime minister raffarin's request for an international commission to re-examine certain sensitive cases on humanitarian grounds where there have been problems with inter-country adoption, nonetheless, i wonder if colleagues might consider accepting my amendment to paragraph 17. mr moscovici's report requests an international commission. that is one outside the european union. my own amendment asks the commission to take up this matter with the romanian government – which is right and proper – and also to report back to the government of romania and – since i know that colleagues are concerned about this – to the european parliament as well. perhaps mr moscovici and i could discuss this. i am sure he would find that it is more in keeping with the spirit of the treaty.
mr president, i have been a romania-watcher for five years now, ever since i took up the case of a london constituent of mine, prince carol mircea. he demonstrated clearly to me that the romanian government, through its prosecutor general, had repeatedly intervened on one side – allegedly under instructions from president iliescu – of the civil case against carol's half brother, ex-king michael of romania. i was therefore particularly delighted at seeing the independence of the romanian justice system. not only has romania now abolished the soviet-era right for the state to intervene in civil cases, but recently, when the previous government tried to circumvent the royal palace's property claim dispute by a bill of compensation in the parliament, the senate threw it out, citing the fact that it was sub judice before the supreme court. so, things are improving in terms of the independence of romania's justice system. clearly, mr basescu's victory in the presidential elections shows that romania is also moving rapidly forward in reform terms. the surprise result definitely scotched all the allegations that the election would be stolen by cheating by the authorities. romania is far from perfect and the fight against corruption and organised crime will be priority number one for the new government. more work needs to be done on minority rights, including the large roma population and the hungarian population. also let me make a plea against a rigid imposition of the moratorium against foreign child adoptions, as many families from countries as diverse as italy and israel have developed bonds with children in orphanages. it would be cruel and inhumane to terminate the process arbitrarily at this late stage. i welcome the romanian government's decision to establish an international committee to resolve this delicate issue. as vice-president of the ukraine delegation, i believe that outstanding disputes such as the issue of territorial claims by romania over tiny snake island in the black sea, which is currently under ukrainian control, need to be resolved before 2007. here, the ownership of the exclusive economic interest zone is essential, as oil is believed to be present. good relations with ukraine, which is now establishing itself as a fully-fledged european democracy, are important for the future. another issue is the border area of the danube delta, where there are concerns that a ukrainian-built navigable channel is upsetting the surrounding wetlands and hence also the unique local habitat for rare bird species. more distant is the whole issue of cooperating with and stabilising moldova and the transnistria question that goes with it. interestingly, if mr yuschenko comes to power in kiev on 26 december, the days for the tiraspol regime of transnistria are numbered, hence the russians' desire to deny mr yuschenko victory. has anybody investigated whether the tiraspol regime may also have had a role to play in the poisoning of mr yuschenko? i believe romania will be ready to join the european union by 1 january 2007 with bulgaria. i welcome both as eu member states, although i do not see the two as chronologically coupled automatically. lastly, of course, there are the safeguard clauses which allow date slippage if romania falls short of its requirements under the acquis; but nevertheless i fully support the moscovici report and look forward to romania joining us in the 25 member states by 2007.
mr president, we like to talk about a europe of values. how does this fit with the decision to admit romania to the european union in just two years time unless by some chance there should be a deferral of just 12 months, which hardly seems likely given that we have heard today that the council has overridden the commission's concerns in closing chapters, a deplorable example of realpolitik over principle of which the dutch presidency should be ashamed. one of my colleagues said that we are being too severe on romania. how soft does she want us to be? on the commission's own admission, romania suffers from serious and widespread corruption; it has a judiciary which is neither efficient nor independent; it does not possess genuine media freedom; it cannot implement the acquis at local and regional level; it fails to prevent money laundering; it permits the ill-treatment of prisoners in custody; it fails to enforce laws against child and sexual trafficking. yet this is a country apparently now so close to meeting eu values that we are putting it on a certain course to accession. it is not surprising that the eu may stand accused of being unable to say 'no' to anyone when it sets its sights so low. the commissioner says, and i quote from his recent parliamentary answer: 'it seems likely that romania's future progress will be accelerated by its accession to the eu'. however, neither he nor any of us know whether that will prove true. so far we have been lucky: membership of the european union has tended to make bad apples wholesome but perhaps we will reach the point where the bad apples infect the rest. you only have to look at lithuania, near the top of the world league for corruption, or to the united kingdom, locking up people without charge or trial, to realise that europe can very easily allow its values to be betrayed from within. we do not have in place an effective mechanism for dealing with existing member states that quietly reject the principles of good governance. perhaps the commissioner can take a lead in building such a mechanism. i wish the new romanian government well. the results of last sunday's election give hope for reform, although the result was no thanks either to the commission or the council, both of which played right into the hands of the former cynical government. romania's problems run deep. once applicants are allowed through the eu door, the commission is deprived of its best weapons to secure change. instead of using the opportunity to apply maximum pressure to gain reform, we seem determined to set it on a conveyor belt to automatic accession. romania should join the european union, but it should do when it meets the values of the eu. it would be a grave mistake to set a date for accession now.
council. the last question was a more or less new question. this first question is also on another issue. we will be having many discussions on the financial perspectives and this is one of the many issues we will discuss. as you know, the council has not decided anything on the new financial perspectives. we have only taken an overview of the so-called building blocks and these building blocks reflect the different positions of the member states to the commission's proposals.
council. mr president, the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and the council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws - the so-called regulation on consumer protection cooperation - does not, as such, have any bearing on law enforcement cooperation between member states. member states' police and judicial authorities are already actively cooperating in the fight against all types of crime. the council has adopted various instruments on cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, notably in the context of mutual recognition and enforcement. these instruments, in principle, have a general scope and are not limited to specific types of crime.
that answer illustrates why i asked the question. this kind of crime affects citizens from across the european union; it is an accelerating form of crime. members in this house will know of people who have been scammed, very often vulnerable european citizens – the elderly, for instance. will the presidency recognise that there are certain forms of crime which are naturally cross-border issues? for example, i represent london, where much of this crime takes place, but people are being scammed across the eu. i should like to ask the council to take seriously a form of crime that is not being dealt with across borders. there is too little cooperation between member states on this kind of growing crime and we know that our european citizens expect us, as parliamentarians, to question you on how effective you can be in solving this kind of cross-border issue.
i want to reinforce the points just made by my colleague. as an mep i receive many letters from concerned constituents who have been defrauded by people operating in other member states of the european union, particularly through fraud through fax machines, sending false contracts and falsely announcing prize-draw winners. a lot of these are based in luxembourg, which will hold the next presidency of the eu. frankly it brings the eu into disrepute when we are told that there is nothing that can be done about this situation. if citizens are to gain any advantage from eu cooperation, it should be precisely in tackling these sorts of problems.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in my hearing before the european parliament a few weeks ago, i spoke in favour of a lasting deepening of cooperation between the commission and parliament in the field of human rights and democratisation. i would like to renew that commitment today with emphasis. parliament is a very important partner for the commission in these matters and so, like my predecessor, chris patten, i would like to have a regular and in-depth dialogue with you on common concerns and concerns in this area. the aim of today's decision is to ensure the legal basis for the continuation of the european initiative for democracy and human rights beyond the end of the year. this requires, i hope, a positive opinion from parliament on the commission's longstanding proposal to extend regulation (ec) no 976/1999 for two years. we are only a little over two weeks away from the end of the legal validity of this regulation and the risk that next year there will be no budget available for projects and measures under the european initiative. the council can only take a positive decision in time if parliament approves the opinion proposed by the foreign affairs committee today and releases the funds. i believe that this is in the well-understood interests of all, in the political interests of the three institutions involved in the legislative process, but above all in the concrete interests of those who are to benefit from the projects of the european initiative for human rights and democracy, namely civil society and the citizens of many countries of the world. this european initiative is a well-functioning instrument, as the figures on the use of the budgetary resources available in this connection prove, as do almost all the human rights organisations which strongly recognise and appreciate the value of this initiative - namely as a successful instrument for direct support to civil society in many third countries which suffer from human rights violations and, above all, lack of democratic development. this initiative supports a wide range of innovative and relevant projects, whether they are aimed at abolishing the death penalty, combating torture and the treatment of its victims, strengthening women's right to say what they think - something which is particularly close to my heart - fighting for the rights and interests of children, indigenous peoples and other disadvantaged groups, or strengthening the rule of law at international level. this is aimed at the international criminal court, for example. or when it comes to advocating for freedom of expression or even promoting democratic development through election observation missions. the european initiative for democracy and human rights is, i believe, a living expression of our common values and, above all, of the european union's identity in the world. i share the view of parliament, mr president, that the initiative must be an efficient and well-managed instrument. the commission will therefore examine with interest and attention all the proposals put forward by the house of lords, which are aimed at improving efficiency, simplifying procedures and ensuring that funds are used in a targeted manner. to this end, i would like to ensure that there is a meaningful, open and, above all, regular dialogue between parliament and the commission. i think that such a dialogue will give us the opportunity to discuss together the political and practical priorities of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. parliament and the commission share broadly the same priorities. the european union's neighbourhood policy initiative, for example, must be used to support the process of democratic development in certain countries. i am therefore saying that it is important for me - and this applies to me as well as to the working level - that we address the same priorities here, that we look together at these needs in the neighbourhood policy and that we set the best possible priorities together. i would like to draw on your experience as a member of parliament. for example, your support for the democracy movement in ukraine or the forthcoming observer mission to palestine, the west bank and gaza are a good example of this and i can only say that i think we work well together here. i would therefore like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by expressing my hope that parliament and the commission will agree as soon as possible on the modalities of this further dialogue, so that we can develop genuinely fruitful cooperation in this area in the common interest. to a good working relationship, i can only say, and i'm happy to be of service.
rapporteur.– mr president, i thank the commissioner for her opening remarks. i am very pleased to see in the chamber mrs morgantini, the chairman of the committee on development, mrs flautre, the chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, the shadow rapporteur and my co-rapporteur on the committee on development, mr fernández martín. there were two regulations, one of which has already been adopted by this house. the one we are dealing with now is that covering third countries. twelve years ago i was rapporteur and, as mr patten has described me, 'father' of the european initiative for democracy and human rights, which proved to be instrumental in helping the transitional ex-soviet bloc countries. it was considered by many as the european union's flagship scheme for democracy promotion. it gave meaning to the preamble to the maastricht treaty concerning the eu's foreign policy priorities. in its initial phase it was administered by a small foundation based in brussels, with both the european parliament and the commission playing an active role in the allocation and supervision of projects. at its height in 1997, the initiative was financing and administering around 1 200 projects. in 1999 i visited some of them in belgrade, including key pro-democracy media, such as radio b92. the same year the initiative was taken in-house by the commission. i have been concerned for a long time that the initiative has become bureaucratic and safe and that the european parliament, as the only democratically elected institution, should once again play a greater role. although the initiative currently has a budget of some eur 137 million, it lacks visibility and effectiveness. i am all the more convinced of this following meetings on the ground and discussions with more than 30 organisations. most recently, i spoke to the association of belarusian journalists – currently here to receive the sakharov prize – as well as the eurasia director of a us pro-democracy agency. they were not even aware of the existence of the european democracy initiative. this is a very valuable programme and one that needs to be made more effective. an important point to make is that unlike routine eu assistance, the european initiative does not require the host government's consent. in a country such as belarus, not to speak of tunisia or iran, in which operating through government channels is difficult and often impossible, this cannot be underestimated. in a paper on the eu security strategy in 2003, javier solana outlined the importance and sensitivity of europe's new neighbourhood. the resulting policy invites our neighbours to the east and south to share in the peace, stability and prosperity that we enjoy in the european union. it aims to create a 'ring of friends' around the borders of the new enlarged european union. sadly, the only visibility of the eu's democracy activities in the new neighbourhood seems to be short observation missions by members of the european parliament, such as those undertaken recently in ukraine. i believe that all significant elections in the new neighbourhood should be the subject of full eu observation missions. there is a feeling in brussels that democracy cannot be exported and that change must come from within. however, the united states national endowment for democracy has shown since 1982 that the two can be combined. it operates as an independent expert agency, using ngos on the ground, and is much respected for its programmes and methodology. as well as the united states activities, the westminster foundation, for example, or the german stiftungen and other ngos have higher visibility and much less bureaucracy than the european initiative. i recently put together a document detailing the european parliament's pro­democracy activities, both within the eu and externally. as members, we participate in a myriad of interparliamentary delegations, consultation committees and informal groups. valuable work is being done, but the work is fragmented. the same can be said about the european initiative. to my mind, our involvement should be coordinated in a democracy centre, based in this house, mandated to act as a research unit, an oversight body on all the eu's pro-democracy activities. to take an example, the website of the state department's bureau for democracy, human rights and labor boasts that the united states has overseen the transition of 87 countries to democratic states. is this a statistic that the eu wishes to leave in the hands of the united states alone? last weekend's g8 conference in rabat – and i am delighted that the commissioner was present – co-financed by the european union, further developed plans for the forum for the future, first introduced at the sea island summit in june 2004, to promote democracy in the middle east and north africa. despite the financial contribution of the european union to such an important event, it is the americans rather than the european union who are leading this activity. we recognise that the united states programme essentially echoes the principles of the barcelona process and now the european neighbourhood policy. in 2005, the united kingdom will take over the presidency of both the g8 and the european union. i sincerely hope that there will be a greater focus on the 250 million arabs who want democracy, as illustrated by the 2002 united nations development report, as well as the manifestly failing countries to our east. lastly, while i do not propose that the european parliament should reject the regulation or the associated budget lines for any longer than strictly necessary, i find the response from the commission – the letter from the commissioner relating to the new arrangements on this programme, which does not reference working level contacts – and the council – which is still using a working party consisting of development ministers – to the concerns i and others expressed about the democracy initiative to be lacking in substance and completely unfitted to the needs of our time and the needs of millions of unfree people on our doorstep.
mr president, i join with others in welcoming the new commissioner to this debate. we look forward to working with her and, indeed, we look forward to the commission's plans in 2005 and 2006 on this budget line, the legal base for which we expect to confirm tomorrow. i support the fact that this is a budget line that reaches the grassroots and that civil society in the countries has a priority in receiving the monies. i also support the fact that the commission is planning to make conflict prevention a permanent priority for this budget line. surely democracy is the best instrument of conflict prevention in our world. i support what the commission has done in terms of improving the contacts and support from its own delegations in third countries for projects under these lines, and also their plans to extend funding for micro-projects, in particular for local ngos in third countries who are most valued by us in this parliament. if i have a word of criticism, it is that every year the commissioner's predecessor used to speak about human rights and then come in with a preliminary draft budget that cut this line – last year from eur 127 million to eur 105 million. perhaps the commissioner will choose not to do that in forthcoming years. indeed, as mrs flautre has said, i hope that, whilst there are proper objectives for simplification of the budget, this particular line has symbolic importance and will be maintained in the medium and long term. i also draw to her attention the increasing demands from international organisations, like the ad hoc tribunals for yugoslavia and rwanda and the international criminal court. however, if these are to be funded from this budget line there must be a significant increase or ngos will fail. i oppose the attempt to reduce the priority given to projects worldwide under this budget line and refocus on near europe. that is a mistake: human rights are universal in our world. finally, i express my respect for the rapporteur, mr mcmillan-scott, and his sincere interest in this budget line; but i am pleased that he withdrew his amendments, which i believe represented micro-management of this budget line. the commission's commitment to structured dialogue, as it put it, is one that we should welcome, and, with my colleagues on parliament's subcommittee on human rights, i very much look forward to engaging with the new commissioner on that.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. thank you for this debate. firstly, i would say that if you, mr mcmillan-scott, had not invented the interesting procedure, we would have to invent it now. i absolutely think it's a good thing, because i've always been very committed to human rights. so, you can really count on someone here who's also convinced of what he's doing. now, i say again that there will be a real dialogue here, at my level, but also at the working level. i want to make this clear once again. i don't mean that we've always been just election observers. i have a whole series of examples of this: let us think of ukraine, where there are a whole series of projects. i just want to list a few to show you that you really can't see that narrowly. the commission has already done a lot in this area. for example, the european center for common ground, 300,000 euros, international helsinki federation for human rights, improving the human rights situation in ukraine through legal aid provided by ngos, 334,000 euros, the european roma right center, defending the rights of roma in ukraine, 787,000 euros, kharkiv, human rights protection group, 685,000 euros and so on and so forth. so these are some of those projects. or to reach out to another region of the world that is very important to you and very important to me, namely the southern mediterranean region, the arab region, but not only the arab region, including israel of course, here is an example: palestine, democratization from the grass roots, media and networking as a tool for community development, here again an important project that was aimed primarily at civil society. i would like to emphasize this again: i am particularly pleased - and i think it is a good coincidence - that i was able to present seven action plans to the commission recently and to parliament on monday, proposals which were approved by the commission and the council. everyone actually found very positive words for it. why would you do that? because with these action plans we can take our values, that is to say human rights and everything that goes with them, the rule of law, human rights, democracy, because we can take that out to these countries, such as ukraine on the one hand, as soon as there are free and fair elections there. then comes the implementation. secondly, we must also do something in a poor and important country like the republic of moldova. belarus is an extra case. i'll get to that in a minute. and then, of course, important countries in the middle east, which are already as far as jordan, morocco, tunisia, palestine and israel. the fact that i have now been able to present these seven action plans is, i think, a really good opportunity to work together on them. and the action plans, of course, also provide opportunities to present our priorities, but also the priorities of the countries and to advance democracy and human rights. i would also like to introduce you to some of the campaigns that are part of our human rights programme, which i admit is not a huge amount, but it is a very substantial one. i think there's a lot of things we can talk about in detail.
rapporteur.– mr president, as the commissioner will find, the european parliament always has the last word. i am pleased that the commission is beginning to examine the possibility of doing some work in belarus. i mentioned belarus, and also tunisia and iran: two other countries where nothing is happening. i am grateful for the good will and the commitment of the commissioner in her new post, and we welcome her into it. i also welcome her commitment to establish some working-level cooperation between parliament and the commission. i advise the commission that this week the european parliament, through the good offices of the human rights subcommittee, is commissioning a study by independent experts into the operation of this programme. it is something i asked for last year from the commission, but it was unwilling to give it. this will be completed by february. may i make one final remark, since i know the commissioner was in rabat at the weekend and we are dealing with a vast and important agenda: the process of reform in the middle east. when i began working on this report, the funds available from the european initiative on democracy and human rights to the entire middle east were four per cent of the total. given the circumstances of the last three years, that was an extraordinarily low figure. i am pleased the commission is now adjusting that, and we need to refocus the programme. notwithstanding what mr howitt said, we have strategic objectives and strategic priorities. i am pleased to see the commission is now beginning to focus on those. i thank the commissioner for her words and for her commitment, and we look forward to working together constructively and practically, but on the basis of equal interest in the development of democracy, particularly in our neighbourhood.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i am a severe critic of the damage the eu has done to britain and a passionate advocate of britain's withdrawal from it. the european union destroys jobs – as tony blair said in his 1983 election address. it has also passed legislation that has led to the closure of hundreds of local abattoirs. however, this toothless parliament passes resolutions that are then ignored by both the council and the commission. the decisions made by this parliament on the transportation of animals have been repeatedly ignored and horrendous suffering continues. over 3 million animals every year endure journeys lasting 30 hours or more in unacceptable conditions and many die in transit. were this not bad enough, even more suffering is now being planned by the european union under the reach directive, and we will see millions more animals moved around for live testing. to those in the outside world – the real world – who are as appalled as i am by all this, i have a simple message. i wish the european union would interfere and legislate less, for if the european union is the answer it must surely have been a very stupid question.
mr president, i can understand why the commission has gone along with this solution, because it is a pragmatic one. the council was not going to agree to anything more at this stage. however, it is extremely disappointing – as everyone has said – that we could not get something on journey times, one of the key issues; or on stocking densities. member states can adopt tougher legislation. we in this parliament want a bigger say on these issues, but at the moment we do not have it. i will certainly press my own government to go further on this. i am pleased, commissioner, that you mentioned enforcement. that is one area where this legislation has fallen down in the past. you will be aware of the ngos that have given us video evidence of how this legislation has been by-passed and ignored. you said that in four years you are going to come back with more legislation. i hope that you do. i hope you will keep parliament informed of what happens in the interim. we want to hear about what is happening with regard to reinforced monitoring. i can guarantee that parliament will back you when you bring forward your legislation. we already have a written declaration on journey times. i am sure that our commitment will remain the same.
mr president, i think commissioner kyprianou has a difficult task in front of him in trying to persuade us that the november council compromise is a genuinely positive step forward when it comes to live animal exports. we know it is not, and i think you know it is not, commissioner. it is a great shame that the council is not here to be held to account. i have to say as well that i am disappointed that my own government voted in favour of this shabby deal; because a few technical improvements are now completely overshadowed by the failure to make any progress on journey times and stocking density. as a result, it seems this shockingly cruel practice will continue for many years to come. i notice, however, that you explicitly reserve the right to bring forward better proposals. i welcome that, and strongly urge you to do it as soon as possible, and in particular to introduce a maximum eight-hour journey time for both slaughter and further fattening animals. you can be sure that parliament will be an ally on this, even more so if we have codecision. it is crucial that we send out a strong signal to all member state governments that support for live exports is unacceptable in a civilised society.
on behalf of the group – mr president, mr ribeiro's excellent report is on the second commission proposal seeking to protect deep-water coral reefs from the effects of trawling. the first concerned reefs off the north-west coast of scotland, the darwin mounds, for which i was fortunate enough to be rapporteur. as with that report, it is essential to appreciate just how important deep-water coral reefs are for the marine ecosystem. they can maintain hundreds of different species of wildlife, including many species of deep-sea fish, and they are a vital focus for fish reproductive cycles. in the case of deep-sea fish, gestation periods are extremely long and thus any negative impacts on the habitats will have serious effects on stocks, both in the short and the long term. we are still gathering research on the full impact of trawling on deep-sea coral reefs, but it certainly appears that in the short span of time since deep-sea trawling began, hundreds or possibly thousands of seamounts and coral reef systems may have been devastated. the alde group therefore fully supports the proposal and the amendments adopted in committee, particularly amendment 4 emphasising the role of regional advisory councils. we commend to you the other amendments as adopted in committee. we endorse plenary amendment 8 as well, since it is important to examine what other areas of deep-sea coral within the eu should be closed to harmful fishing methods. we can also support amendment 6 and the first part of amendment 7, since that fits with the precautionary approach. after considerable thought, we cannot support the second part of that amendment because it could have the effect of leaving some of the coral unprotected. that is with real regret, since the motivation of the whole of that amendment is essentially one of conservation. we hope very much that the commission and the council will both appreciate the seriousness of the concerns being expressed.
mr president, deep-water coral reefs are a resource which deserves our protection. according to the united nations, deep-water coral reefs are a vulnerable habitat which require special attention. ices advises that the only way to protect cold-water habitats from fishing damage is to map the habitats precisely and to close those areas to the forms of fishing that cause damage. the only way to protect deep-water coral reefs is to prohibit the use of bottom trawls and similar gears. it was early this year that this house recognised deep-water coral reefs, when the darwin mounds, off the north-west coast of scotland, were given special status as an area of conservation. now we turn to the other deep-water coral reefs off the canary islands and around madeira and the azores, and i hope there will be continuation of protection to those areas on a permanent basis. deep-water coral reefs should not be destroyed by bottom trawling, but should be protected for future generations to enjoy.
mr president, as a substitute member of the delegation to eu-bulgaria joint parliamentary committee, i want to congratulate mr van orden on his report and to note the very positive progress bulgaria has made towards membership of the european union. we hope they will be members in a few years' time. i want to enter one caveat: there is still serious evidence about the lack of professionalism of the bulgarian judiciary and of its lack of independence. i would urge the bulgarian government to address those issues within the next year so that they can become members in 2007.
mr president, again i congratulate the rapporteur on his report and note with satisfaction the progress that romania has made towards membership of the community. however, i enter a different caveat this time: the situation of orphans and young children. the state of the homes in romania is still unacceptable. i would again ask the romanian government to address this before membership. finally, mr president, i thank you and your excellent staff for all the cooperation through the year, and wish you a merry christmas.
mr president, zimbabwe is a land of tragedy and a land of tyranny. it is a country rich in natural resources and rich in the resources of its people. both are being devastated by the political tyranny of the mugabe regime. people are suffering from hunger and health problems as a result of food and medical aid being withheld from areas that are covered by the opposition parties. some 9 million people, 75% of the zimbabwean population, are now said to be living below the poverty line, but the world food programme is only able to provide food for 1.6 million people this december. that is the first reason why this is an urgency. the second reason is that on 3 march there is supposed to be an election in zimbabwe. that election, on the present prospects, will be neither free nor fair. it is not up to us to decide who the people of zimbabwe should elect. that is entirely for them, but they must be free to elect whomsoever they wish. it is up to the neighbouring countries of africa and to the african union to make sure that international standards of democracy pertain throughout africa and throughout the country of zimbabwe. it is up to the european union to make sure that we support the monitoring of those elections, giving technical support and financial support, so that we can play our part in the international observer missions. that is also why it is an urgency today. the third reason is the intolerable attack on the liberty of roy bennett, one of their members of parliament, a man who has suffered, whose family has suffered and whose workers have suffered over the months. mr bennett pushed a government minister because he was making racial remarks about mr bennett and his family. he was then sent to prison, not by the courts, but by a vote in the parliament based on the political division. i urge that the au and the eu act today to bring a semblance of justice to the people of zimbabwe.
mr president, political oppression in zimbabwe casts a long shadow; it is a cloud that lies over not only those living in zimbabwe itself but also those who have left to seek asylum in europe. in my constituency in the north-east of england, there are zimbabweans who fear summary death if they are forced to return to their native land. i hope that member state governments like my own, which think it is safe for asylum-seekers to be returned to zimbabwe, will take note of the resolution tabled here this afternoon and revise their position. the situation in zimbabwe is getting worse, not better. on 9 december 2004 the non-governmental organisations act came into force. this act bans foreign human rights organisations and gives the government powers to intervene in the operations of any ngo in zimbabwe. meanwhile, the quality of life for zimbabweans has plummeted. life expectancy is now 35 years. zimbabwe could be self-sufficient in food, but last season it produced only a third of the maize it needs; yet the mugabe regime is interfering with the international distribution of food. in the light of this deteriorating situation, it is high time to tighten up targeted sanctions against the regime. a final point: as we have heard, next march zimbabwe is due to hold a general election. there are worrying indications that this election may not be held in free and fair conditions. electoral legislation passed earlier this month did not meet international democratic standards. good observation of the elections is going to be a vital part of ensuring that they are free and fair. therefore i hope that we in parliament, and the council and the commission, will provide the maximum possible support for election-observer missions at all levels.
mr president, the conflict in the democratic republic of the congo is the most lethal since the second world war. the international rescue committee reckons that 3.8 million people have now been killed and over a million of those are children. apart from those killed, 3.4 million have been displaced. congolese and foreign military groups continue to use violence to conceal the plundering of gold, timber, ivory, tin and other natural resources. meanwhile, the fragile and ineffectual transitional congolese government stumbles from political stalemate to military crisis. both the transitional government and its international partners have failed to deal with the root causes of the conflict. natural resource exploitation has funded and fuelled the instability in the country and, indeed, has fuelled instability and violence in the congo for over a hundred years. what should have been a blessing to that country has turned out to be a source of deep sadness and regret and, indeed, a curse. the congo's natural wealth has been a source of private funding for military and political elites instead of benefiting the vast majority of the congolese population. our resolution rightly calls for a package of measures to tackle this situation. we must take action to ensure respect for the arms embargo; the un security council must impose sanctions, travel restrictions, a ban on financial services, etcetera, on individuals who have participated in the pillaging of congolese assets; the eu and its member states must act against companies involved in exploitation; we need a peacekeeping force in the east of the country; and action must be taken to disarm all illegally armed groups. only if such measures are taken can we hold out any hope that the elections due next year will make any difference to the tragic situation in that country. the problem in the congo is neither ethnic nor racial. it is about economics, and only if we tackle economics will we solve the problems.
mr president, i speak in place of mr van hecke, who has had to leave strasbourg early as he is travelling to the democratic republic of the congo tomorrow. the current situation in eastern congo shows that the congolese peace process is still very fragile. indeed, there have been reports of new exchanges of fire yesterday. the alde group warmly welcomed the initiative to draft an urgency resolution on the congo. ultimately, however, our group decided not to endorse the compromise resolution. we feel that the compromise text fails to identify the core problem of the continuing instability in the region and of the difficult relationship between the democratic republic of the congo and its neighbouring countries, especially rwanda. the issue is this: since the end of the rwandan genocide in 1994 a large group of extremist hutus have been hiding in a remote area of the congolese rainforest in the east of the congo. after all these years they have still not been disarmed. the presence of these heavily armed militias is a constant threat to the peace process in the democratic republic of the congo and to security in the entire great lakes region. the massacre at the burundian refugee camp of gatumba last august was only one in a long series of provocative actions. monuc, the un peacekeeping mission in the congo, was supposed to disarm and neutralise the rebels, but has failed to do so. although monuc's mandate has been strengthened and there are extra troops, they are poorly trained and there is a serious lack of information and technical assistance. we feel that the joint resolution does not acknowledge that if rwanda is crossing the border into the congo to put an end to the activity of the armed gangs, it is happening in the context of monuc having failed to do the disarming. we would suggest that the european union and the member states need to get more actively involved in the drc and the great lakes region, focusing very much on rapid disarmament of the rebel forces. perhaps european troops could be used to strengthen the uk peacekeeping forces. the troops from pakistan, nepal, uruguay and other countries that are in the congo at the moment simply do not have enough experience with military operations in sub-saharan africa. europe has that experience. we have to consider all the options in order to make disarmament happen. it is by far the most important prerequisite to get the peace process back on track. in summary, we feel that although the resolution has many points that we support, it is unbalanced. so, with regret, i will abstain.
mr president, my group welcomes the opportunity to discuss the current situation in the drc, but like others deeply regrets the need to come back to this. in the report on asylum and sustainable solutions that parliament adopted yesterday, one of the things we agreed was that the european union's common foreign policy and common security policy needed to focus on conflict resolution and prevention, paying special attention to long-term conflict situations. this is exactly what we have in the drc where, as has already been pointed out, the desire to control natural resources plays an absolutely key role in the massive displacements of people and in the massive numbers of deaths. we stress the need for an effective means of arms control and an effective disarmament programme to be put in place. we would also endorse the call made for the un to deal with those profiteering from the pillage of natural resources, not least through the freezing of bank accounts and actions against companies. we feel perfectly able to do this in the case of what we believe to be terrorist organisations, but seem totally incapable of doing it with those who cause massive numbers of deaths elsewhere in the world. we also regret the need but welcome the fact that the un department of peace-keeping operations has set up a special investigative team to look at the cases of sexual abuse and exploitation perpetrated by some of its own members in the un organising mission in the drc, particularly in bunia. we know, since this parliament has discussed it on many occasions, that rape is used as a means to demoralise opponents by demonstrating the people cannot even protect their own families. this parliament has recognised on many occasions that victims of rape, child victims of sex abuse, are particularly vulnerable. so we consider it despicable that such crimes are also being committed by those sent to protect an already traumatised population. we look for the perpetrators to be brought to justice, as well as those profiteering from the tragedy in the drc.
mr president, today we remember one of the worst industrial disasters in history. as we have heard, in the dead of night on 2 december 1984, a deadly 40 tonnes of known and unknown poisons leaked into the air. the people of bhopal tried to escape the poisonous cloud. their efforts were, however, futile and nearly 4 000 people died instantaneously; to date 25 000 innocent people have died. these are the bare brutal facts and today the people of bhopal are still suffering from this horrifying legacy. that is why we cannot just remember, but must act as a community to help another. we need to ask why after 20 years the pursuit of justice has been so difficult for the survivors. we need to ask why the transnational corporation involved denies any continuing liability, either for the state of the bhopal site or the victims' health. we need to ask why the site has not been cleaned of toxic waste and continues to pollute the water the surrounding communities rely on. we need to know just how dow chemicals can close the door on what was one of the worst industrial disasters in this century. we also need to ask why so many people are still awaiting adequate compensation. i appreciate the issue of compensation is mired in endless arguments as to the calculations, but this is not a sufficient reason for the people of bhopal to have to relive the experience day after day. whilst i support the major part of the resolution and the sentiment behind it, i do not believe the proposed amendments add anything constructive to this resolution. it is vital when we talk about disasters such as bhopal that we do not descend into polemics and irrationality. the allocation of blame is all too often misplaced and we often condemn all agents without establishing all the facts. as chair of parliament's south-asia saarc delegation, i would urge you to keep all these matters in perspective, and the budget of each country is particularly relevant. we must recognise the limitation of certain countries, which may not yet have developed the technologies or know-how to deal with such disasters as quickly and as safely as we have come to expect in our own countries. we must also attempt to see each angle of an issue such as the bhopal disaster, and we should acknowledge the work that has already been done by the indian government and the madhya pradesh government with regard to medical care, economic and social assistance, environmental clean-up, and finally financial compensation. this short list goes to prove that a lot of work has already been done. i feel it would be unproductive to vilify a government that has made efforts to remedy and address the plethora of problems stemming from bhopal. rather, we need to employ all our diplomatic efforts to keep the pressure on the indian government to maintain its current efforts in providing compensation and working on detoxification of the area. nevertheless, if we demand that action is taken and money is spent, we should also be prepared to help in any way we can, including offering technical and financial support. we must not condemn without first examining what we, as a community, can do to help. we should continue to be constructive and offer the humanitarian, ecological and medical expertise we have to the government of madhya pradesh. this is a role for the commission, member states and governments alike. i would urge you, therefore, to pressure all those who can bring any relief to those who have already suffered in bhopal.
mr president, while dow chemicals and the indian government argue over who is to blame for the bhopal disaster, the people continue to suffer and die from their two-decade legacy. more than 7 000 people died within days, but inaction has seen 15 000 further deaths which could have been avoided. even today, 20 years on, neither side seems to care about the suffering, only about their reputations. as many as 100 000 people are suffering chronic and debilitating illnesses, with 10 to 15 people a month continuing to die. the survivors still wait for justice: compensation and medical assistance in many cases. the plant site, which continues to pollute, will cost an estimated gbp 15 million to decommission, compared with dow's yearly sales of gbp 16 billion and india's gdp of gbp 320 billion. the indian government has also yet to spend usd 330 million of the original compensation given to them by union carbide. the pollution in the water supply in nearby slums is also 500 times above the maximum recommended who levels. how can the international community, a multinational company and one of the world's main countries, stand by and watch this happen? just now it should not be about who is to blame, but who is going to stop the suffering. bhopal resident, abdul jabbar khan, who runs the bhopal women gas victims' industrial association, said in the guardian newspaper in the uk: 'in new york after 9/11 there was compensation, punishment and clean-up in just a few months. in bhopal, after 20 years, we have nothing.'
mr president, if you go to bhopal today – not 20 years ago, but today – you will see thousands of tonnes of toxic waste in piles, pools of mercury, skips of poisoned waste and bags of chemicals lying in the open air, seeping, whenever the rains come, into the puddles, streams and groundwater; and you will see people suffering because they drink that water. they suffer from pains in the stomach, headaches, anaemia and gynaecological problems because they have no alternative but to drink from those wells. that is the problem we are facing in bhopal today, and we are facing it 20 years after that catastrophe, when so many people died. the figures range from 3 000 to 7 000 on one night; 15 000 later on and 100 000 people still suffering from debilitating diseases. we are talking about 15 years after the settlement which gave us$500 million to the indian government to disburse for compensation and rectification of that landscape. it is still a picture of desolation and danger for those people. we in this parliament do not do well when we seek to be judge and jury in these cases. that is why i cannot accept the green amendments that have been referred to. the motion itself stands well because it calls on the european union to work with the government of india to use the money that is available to make sure that there is a clean-up of those sites, treatment of affected people and compensation to those affected; and now, not in another 20 years. that is our message to all those affected: to the european union; to the indian government; by all means, to dow chemicals and its responsibilities and to the courts which will be looking at that. but today we seek justice for those people and renovation of the environment in that part of the world and the health of its people.
