mr president, in the previous plenary i asked for a minute's silence to be observed in this house on the unjust deaths of children and other civilians in iraq and afghanistan by the bombing of the occupying forces, and this has been done in this sitting. the chairman of that meeting replied that he would put the matter to the bureau. so i want to know if you have discussed this and if you have asked for a minute's silence.
mr president, my colleague mr patakis has just raised what i consider to be a serious point. the european parliament has already asked the house to observe a minute's silence in memory of the 16 children killed by american bombers in afghanistan in early december, and of the thousands of other civilian victims of the intervention in afghanistan and iraq. the chairman assured him he would keep you informed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. parliament holds a moment of silence at times for various victims, or even victims among attackers. i think that the basic sensibility, mr president, requires that the request of my colleague be accepted.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have had too many opportunities in recent days to take an interest in the problem of air transport safety. before i turn to the subject of transatlantic flights, i should also like to express my sorrow at the terrible crash of the flash airlines plane on 3 january, which claimed 148 lives, most of them european citizens. i'm sure we all share the feelings of the families affected. but first of all i want to remind you that, once again, we have to wait for the conclusions of the investigation to know exactly the circumstances in which it occurred. over the last few years, aviation safety has been one of the main concerns and concerns of the commission, myself personally and the whole of the directorate-general for transport. it is an area in which we have made clear progress: we have adopted the directive on occurrence reporting in civil aviation; we have approved the creation of the european aviation safety agency, which is already operational; we have approved the rules on certification and maintenance of aircraft to be applied by the agency; and we have also made progress on the 'one sky' initiative, which is an element that should strengthen safety in the aviation sector in europe. unfortunately, all these measures do not apply in this case - i do not know whether they apply unfortunately. this is a different case. there were known problems with the aircraft - for example, the incidents when it was diverted for technical reasons to athens airport - and it was logical to think that they would have been recorded in the database provided for in the directive which you approved last year, but it must be said that the directive will not come into force for another year. as for the air safety agency, which has been operating since 28 september, its responsibility with regard to national certification powers is limited to vessels registered in the community, that is to say, those flying a community flag and therefore does not cover vessels such as those of flash airlines. under the chicago convention, it is the flag state - the state in which the vessels are registered - which is responsible for ensuring that these aircraft meet and comply with all international safety standards, all under the supervision of the international civil aviation organization. however, member states reserve the right to verify that aircraft from third countries flying to them comply with these standards. to facilitate this surveillance, the union states and some european third countries set up in 1996 a system of aircraft inspection and the exchange of information on aircraft inspection, called safa, within the european civil aviation conference (ecac). the european commission co-finances this programme and participates as an observer. this programme has enabled the exchange of information on the six inspections carried out by france, germany and poland following the swiss ban on the boeing 737s of flash airlines. however, although some 3 000 inspections are carried out each year, there is no guarantee that each member state carries out these inspections and how they are carried out. moreover, this system does not guarantee the adoption of collective measures or, above all, the transparency of inspections and measures and, moreover, it lacks mechanisms for sanctioning states which do not comply with the rules. moreover, i believe that this lack of transparency is detrimental to the most security-compliant companies, since this compliance is not known or the highest quality of the most serious companies is not known and gives opportunities to those that are less serious. on the contrary, greater transparency would mean that everyone would know what is going on and, of course, the passenger, the consumer, could and would clearly choose maximum safety. the commission is aware of these shortcomings in the current organisation of the aircraft control system. i would also like to remind you that following an accident similar to that of flash airlines, which occurred in 1996 in puerto plata, dominican republic, on a flight operated by a turkish charter company on behalf of a german travel agency, the commission presented in 1997 a proposal for a directive on the control of aircraft from third countries landing at community airports. i would also like to point out that the commission submitted an amended proposal on this text in january 2002, which essentially took up the 1997 text with corrections that improved the text itself and also allowed it to be adopted quickly. we are at the moment, as the honourable members are aware, in the conciliation procedure phase, which i hope will be moving forward in the coming days, and the flash airlines accident shows how absolutely necessary and urgent this text is: firstly, it is clear that the time limit for transposing the directive must be as short as possible - recent events show this - and that we must not exceed the usual two years for transposing directives into national law. no one would understand that after what has just happened there would be further delay on the part of the states of the union on this issue. as for the annual report which the commission is to publish, i think it should be made available to all interested parties. it should provide the data necessary for the choice of airlines by travel organisers to encourage them to pay even more attention to safety issues. of course, the data in this report can only reflect the reality at a given time and do not always allow general conclusions to be drawn about the safety or non-safety of a particular appliance or appliances in general from a particular company. however, the british initiative to publish a list of airlines that are not allowed to access british airspace shows that transparency is not only possible, but is going to happen anyway. and the commission's report must be drawn up and designed with this in mind. the commission supports parliament when it proposes that a measure adopted by a member state - after an inspection - should have effects throughout the community. the attitude of the most stringent state in the union will thus be the attitude of the union as a whole towards this type of aircraft. this accident does not only require an effort and a reinforcement of controls and the transparency of these controls. it also requires us to consider the need for greater discipline on the part of tour operators in informing passengers about the airline they are to fly with and about the choice of airline. it is not clear why, when you take a package tour, you are given all kinds of information about the hotel, the meal plan, sometimes even about the places you are going to visit, offers of complementary activities, but you are not usually told exactly which airline will be responsible for the flight. i have asked the commission services to give priority consideration to this question, which i consider essential. this dramatic matter, mr president, is not the only one which has caused controversy and concern about safety issues - in the sense of security - among the public in the civil aviation sector, since we have all been aware during this christmas of matters relating to the suspension of flights from european countries to the united states, with the corresponding problems and difficulties for all those travellers who had planned to take these planes. the current situation undoubtedly warrants closer and more active cooperation with the american authorities to strengthen security aspects in the face of new terrorist risks. but, while we share these objectives, we are often confronted with measures which are adopted unilaterally and, in this connection, i would like to say that, on several occasions, the commission has made clear to the american authorities the need for dialogue and agreement prior to decision-making, which would not only facilitate the implementation of decisions but also offer better results, taking into account the experience which, fortunately or unfortunately, some member states have in this field. the difficult negotiations conducted by mr bolkenstein on the automatic transfer of personal data to the american authorities also show that in the end mutually acceptable solutions can be found, although this takes longer and creates more difficulties. in this connection, and speaking of the transfer of data, i should like to say that last december i had the opportunity to present to the libe committee, together with mr vitorino, mr patten and mr bolkenstein, the results of these negotiations. as we said then, we believe that the results obtained on the transfer and storage of personal data enable the commission to prepare an adequacy finding in line with the data protection directive, which will complement an initiative within the icao to create an international framework and adequate information for passengers. it must be clear that the recent behaviour of our american friend and partner does not concern these points. we have to say that the data which has caused some difficulties was not the data which appears in the passenger name record (pnr) and which is detailed enough to avoid certain types of errors which have occurred in this field. however, even if the cancellation of flights by air france and british airways, for example, is not proved to be justified a posteriori, one must always be cautious in the face of the threat of terrorism and it is even better to be overly cautious in the face of the fact. i would also like to mention another matter which has been reported in the media and which is causing some concern, namely the presence of security personnel on board aircraft travelling to the united states, which raises all kinds of problems. first of all, i would point out that this is a matter for the member states. that there is no community competence in this field. secondly, i would point out that although the commission has arranged a meeting of the aviation group on 16 january, i.e. at the end of this week, in which all the civil aviation directors of the member states of the union are taking part, this item will be added to the long list of items on the agenda and will be discussed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. that safety must be considered in a global way and that it is not enough to talk about guarantees and the safety of the airlines in our territories, that is, of european airlines and aircraft, because aircraft from third countries also arrive at our airports and our citizens travel in such transports en masse. the safety of these aircraft must therefore be strengthened and there is scope for this and i hope that there will be agreement between parliament and the council on this point of the safety of third country aircraft. finally, i would like to say that in order to avoid problems of terrorism in the civil aviation sector, safety matters must be dealt with from the point of view of maximum guarantees and safety for passengers and citizens. in any case, we must not forget that the number of air accidents has fallen by 45% in the last 10 years, while air traffic has doubled. however, with 576 fatalities on commercial flights worldwide in 2003, we must continue to work to prevent these types of accidents from happening and to achieve an even greater reduction in them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the flash airlines incident was a real tragedy and i happened to experience the tragedy of this incident personally, as i was in france and saw the reactions of french society. i would like to point out that the european parliament can take great satisfaction in the fact that for a long time it has been aware of the problem of air safety. the commission's attitude in the case of the european aviation safety agency is typical of this direction, where we have supported the project from the outset and this year we have voted in the budget all the funds needed to staff this agency quickly. at the same time, parliament has been very firm from the start on the maes report on third country aircraft, which the commission rightly took the initiative to promote, and i am glad that mrs de palacio is now agreeing with the european parliament's position on the differences we have with the council on the conciliation procedure. it is very important, and i hope the council will take note, that the arrangements made on this matter are the right ones and that we ensure a high level of safety not only for our own aircraft but also for those of third countries coming into the european union. beyond that, you know there's the issue that was created with security after the 9/11 terrorist attack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that on the other side of the atlantic, although i understand the reaction, there is at the same time a haughty attitude towards europe, a willingness to deal with the problems unilaterally. i think we will make it clear to the other side that we want to cooperate, but at the same time we want to be equal partners with them, and in this direction the european commission can help decisively.
the proposal for a regulation on the chartering of cargo and passenger ships is part of the general anti-union policy of the european union. under the pretext of enhancing competitiveness, it aims to increase the profits of shipowners by reducing the wages and social rights of shipowners and by providing scandalous tax breaks for shipping companies in the member states of the european union. the recommendation in the explanatory memorandum to the regulation that member states reconsider the creation of a european ship register is a strategic choice by the capital to increase its profitability. the commission had already put forward this proposal in 1989. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the shipowners are not able to carry out their work in the same way as the shipowners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the maritime sector. the proposal to strengthen the criminal framework for the suppression of pollution from ships is not going to reduce maritime crime, since everything will be subject to safeguarding and increasing the profits of ship owners, of big capital in general, which controls the sources of energy and the means of transport and production. we call on the european parliament to intervene to force the p&i club and the shipowners of the prestige and tasman spirit to pay the fines for the two shipwrecks, so that their crews, held as hostages in spain and pakistan respectively, can be released. mr president, the kke rejects all three motions for a regulation ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, it is truly astonishing to see once again that the bulk of the problem of marine pollution does not come from shipwrecks themselves but from illegal dumping of ships, whether it be oil or waste in general, and that this problem has not been dealt with as it should be. there is the marpol convention, its application in the member states is different in terms of the sanctions imposed, and for this reason the initiative of the european commission is useful so that there is a uniform approach to the issue in terms of sanctions. the commission has already adopted a directive on this subject, namely directive 2059 on ship-generated waste reception facilities, but it has not been fully implemented by the member states. this directive must be implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected. so here we are taking a positive step, and what i regret to point out is that the council, while it had asked the european commission to bring in this regulation on penalties in cases of illegal dumping of waste from ships, now does not seem to be willing to move quickly, does not seem to be willing to accept the proposals of the commission and parliament and seems to be delaying the whole process. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank your assembly, and in particular mr philippe herzog, your rapporteur, for the excellent work on this complex and delicate issue which the commission has raised in its green paper on services of general interest. the commission considers that public services are at the heart of the debate on the future of european integration. all the countries of the union have public services which are part of their own traditions, in their own particular situations, and in particular at local level. we consider services of general interest to be an essential component of the european social model. we believe that these services contribute to the quality of life of our citizens, to the competitiveness of our industries and to the strengthening of our social and territorial cohesion. the same is true for the future member states: the proper functioning of services of general interest is essential to facilitate their integration. with the green paper of may last, the commission embarked for the first time on a comprehensive review of community policies on services of general interest. this reflection was necessary, in particular, following your own request, made in the langen report of november 2001, which had opened a debate on the question of whether or not it was appropriate to create a general legal framework for services of general interest at community level. we are currently finalising the analysis of the contributions received during the public consultation. we have received today almost 300 contributions, many of them very substantial, and which obviously deserve further work. it would therefore be premature at this stage to draw any precise conclusions from this work. nevertheless, we intend to draw political conclusions before the end of this parliamentary term, following a request which was unanimously expressed in your committee on economic and monetary affairs. of course, it will be necessary to decide what kind of instrument the commission can propose to ensure quality public services in europe. the possibilities include a framework directive with a number of common principles: equal access for users, universality, continuity, adaptability and evaluation. i know that this is the subject of lively debate in your house. we can also think of the adoption of a white paper, pending the constitutional treaty, which, on this point, formulates what we consider to be some progress. in the meantime, a white paper could define the political framework for our future action or set out the way forward for the sectoral approach. in addition, we are continuing work on other cases concerning services of general interest, in particular the application of the state aid rules, following the altmark judgment. the public consultation on this point is clear. we need more certainty in this area, and in particular a notification exemption and sufficient exemption coverage, given the number of cases potentially affected by the application of the altmark case-law. in conclusion, our plan is to lay the foundations for the community to play a more proactive role in providing high quality services of general interest to citizens and businesses. this approach must of course take account of the principle of subsidiarity, and our aim is to enable the design of a coherent policy for services of general interest within the union, which will provide the best articulation of the relations and responsibilities between the different levels of government. your resolution will be an essential and indispensable contribution to the definition of this approach, and the commission is therefore looking forward to its outcome with great impatience.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr herzog, for the good cooperation we have had in the preparation of the report to be voted on, which was done with the strong cooperation of the economic and legal affairs committees. i would like to express my regret, however, at the outcome of the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which reversed the basic proposals of the committee on legal affairs. the approach adopted jointly by the rapporteur and myself is not blind to the problems posed by modern reality. the key issue is not the ownership of utilities. it is clear that modern developments allow for private-public cooperation. however, in order to avoid a negative effect of privatisation, the basic rules governing the mission of public utilities, including the basic principles of their operation and financing, must be respected. it is important, among other things, that the needs of the population as a whole are taken into account in all cases. the principles of universality, continuity, affordability and quality must therefore be safeguarded at community level. our difference with the liberal approach is that privatisation is not an end in itself and that it should in no case mean a complete dependence of public services on market rules, a dependence which goes so far as to exclude even the financing by local government of public services serving local communities. in particular, for certain services, such as health, education and social security, national authorities should have the right to determine the rules governing the provision of these services by private profit-making bodies. i therefore call on this house, and especially on those who believe in the european social model as part of the european production system, to vote in favour of the amendments relating to the above. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very important one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
mr president, the proposed arrangements are designed to make it easier to hand over public services of general interest to private interests. in a time of economic crisis, the only certainty is that big business wants to get their hands on public wealth to maximize their profits. in addition to their important development role for the national economy, utilities also play a strategic role in relation to the security and independence of each country, especially in times of economic and other crises. the privatisation of these companies and the liberalisation of their markets will lead to a limitation of this growth and, certainly, to the enrichment of their shareholders instead of strengthening the national economy. it is not true that market liberalization is a factor in technological progress and economic efficiency, because, according to its practical application to date, it leads rather to the opposite result. privatizations have led to the destruction of productive forces, poor performance, degradation of the quality of services provided, appalling social inequalities, rising prices and reduced employment. privatizations have had adverse effects on workers, not only by increasing the prices of services provided but, above all, by waves of redundancies and the subsequent replacement of labour regimes by flexible forms of work. the restrictions imposed on big business to operate in the public interest and the good intentions to ensure certain principles governing the operation and services offered, even if they are applied initially, will then degenerate, with the citizens as the only victims. we are opposed to the selling off of public wealth to the benefit of big business. we support the public nature of public utilities, which must be upgraded, offering good and cheap services to the working people, and become a lever of a popular economy.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of nuclear safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the disposal of radioactive waste. in fact, apart from a few general points of view which apply to all types of waste, the proposal for a directive makes no substantial reference to the special and sensitive nature of radioactive waste in terms of public health. the proposals to build deep geological deposits within specific time limits are so ill-founded that they can only be regarded as empty talk. the report by the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy makes an effort to support the flawed text of the directive with comments which are either neutral or downright negative. the report accepts, for example, the transfer of spent nuclear waste to third countries, which we are absolutely opposed to. the proposal for a directive and the report by the committee on industry confirm once again our assessment that there is a huge gap between the seriousness and depth of the environmental problems created by the uncontrolled activities of big business and the measures to solve them. that is why the members of parliament from the communist party of greece are voting against the relevant texts.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the commission's statement on the prospects for the doha programme following the meeting of the wto general council on 15 december 2003. approval of the minutes: see minutes.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i'll make this quick. i would like to thank you for the constructive contributions which we have heard a great many of today. i would just like to comment on the specific agricultural questions and then my colleague pascal lamy will round things off accordingly. the question was raised whether the usa was showing more flexibility on the cotton question. well, you know that bob zoellick has published a letter to all wto members. in this letter he deals specifically with the cotton question, he devotes a whole chapter to this question, and from the way he presents it it is quite clear that there is a certain openness in this question. in any event, it is open not only to changes in export refunds - that they should be abandoned - and to market opening and less distortive internal support - but also to the idea that means should be developed to better assist the particularly poor countries, which are unilaterally dependent on cotton production, in the field of development aid. i can only repeat what mrs gonzález said about cotton production and the importance of cotton for europe: it is true that european production accounts for only about 2% of world market production. it is also true that we do not apply any export subsidies and that we have fully opened our cotton markets to the least developed countries in the world in the context of the eba decision. and as you know, there is a proposal to change our cotton market regulation which will lead to less distortive measures in the cotton sector. so a mix of blue-box and green-box measures. i am trying to get a decision in the council of agriculture ministers in march. as far as japan's rice policy is concerned, everyone knows that rice is a very sensitive issue for japan and has always been considered as such. however, we note that japan has recently entered into bilateral negotiations with a number of wto member states. the question of rice is certainly on the agenda of these bilateral negotiations and is part of these negotiations, which is why the japanese have begun in geneva to adopt a somewhat more - let us say - constructive or less strict stance on this issue in general. if it has been said that we have no mandate to propose that export refunds be abolished entirely for certain products, that is simply and gravely wrong, because it is explicitly stated in our mandate that we can very well propose this for different products. mrs mann asked me about our sugar proposal. we are working hard on preparing a proposal and i have already announced that my aim is to put the proposal in the commission in the middle of this year and then to send it to parliament and the council. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, just one more remark. i would like to invite parliament to participate in the intensification of the dialogue which we proposed in our opening statements. we need more, we need more intensive discussions, and i would ask you in particular to intensify the discussions with the ngos, because it is precisely in the case of some ngos that ideas are sometimes totally contrary to european interests. i would like to invite you to consider that waiting is bad for us, for the european union, and for european agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty and that the council has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. our main objectives in this negotiation remain the same: first, a further step towards opening up trade; second, better rules for the multilateral framework for trade; and, finally, better integration of developing countries, which have so far benefited only very unevenly from the increase in international trade. if we try to translate all this, to answer your questions, into the following words: what must be done, what should be our objective for 2004, the answer is quite simple. our objective for 2004 is to achieve by the summer what could not be achieved in cancun, that is to say, to go two thirds of the way through this negotiation. this is our political objective for 2004. so you will tell me, in view of what i said in the introduction to the debate on the state of the art in geneva, that such an objective requires energy and acceleration, without a doubt. compared to the present level of work and pressure in the geneva boiler, this requires an acceleration and we will, like others, put coal in the geneva boiler to make things go further. from this point of view, i said it and i say it again in reply to mrs mann's question, the letter that my american counterpart circulated in recent days, and which he commented on in the press yesterday, is good news in that it is the culmination of a thesis that was beginning to spread and that 2004 - an election year in the united states - would be a lost year. well, no, you won't. 2004 may well not be a lost year and it is important that two of the big elephants of world trade, the united states and europe, agree to this. so, of course, to achieve this we will have to get active and we will, as we have started to do since our mandate was renewed, work with the g20, with the g90, with the united states, with japan, to name only the main players of the moment, within a variable geometry that allows us to advance our own position under the best conditions. as franz fischer rightly said, in this enterprise of work and entertainment, to raise the temperature, we need you and the contacts you have with your colleagues in each of the large blocks i have just mentioned. that is what i had to say in response to the overwhelmingly supportive position expressed during this debate. a few words to answer some critics. mr lannoye blames us for two things: firstly, we have not reconstructed our mandate, we have only repositioned it, and secondly, there are traces of the so-called singapore issues within this mandate. indeed, mr lannoye is right, we have not rebuilt our mandate, we have repositioned it. and if there is a lesson to be learned from what happened between cancun and today, it is that no one around the wto table asked for a renegotiation of the negotiating agenda that had been agreed in doha. that is the programme on the table and that is the programme to be negotiated. as regards singapore, it is true that we have softened our position, we have given priority to trade facilitation and transparency in public procurement for reasons which the green group should understand as it is committed to transparency. in a number of cases, this would be very beneficial to trade facilitation, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises which unfortunately do not often have the means to pay the hedge-breakers that large multinational groups can afford for procedures, customs and other networks that allow decisions to be made faster from time to time. i would simply say to mrs figueiredo and mr désir once again that their concerns about public services are unfounded. my mandate on this point is clear and unambiguous. i have never deviated from it and i have no intention of doing so. i now come to two specific points in reply to the remarks of mrs ferrer and mrs corbey. to mrs ferrer, on the textile sector, we are prepared to reduce what remains of industrial protection on our textile tariffs on the condition, of course, that others do the same, which is part of the negotiation. i would say to mrs corbey, who was wondering where we were with access to medicines, that we are working on it in the two areas where the rest of the operations are now taking place. firstly in geneva, where we have to transpose the terms of the august agreement into the trips agreement and we are working on that. this is not a matter of course, because the balance achieved in august between the various parts and the various requirements must be reflected in a text which will now be a legal text, and this obviously requires a little work. we are also working on this within the european union, as we want, as a sort of anticipation, to adjust our own compulsory licensing system in our european legislation to adapt it to this new agreement at the wto and to allow easier access possibly in a number of developing countries. we will do so in the form of a proposal for a recommendation to the council of ministers, since, pending the entry into force of european patent legislation, which is decided but will not take effect for a number of years, we must, in order to put this agreement on access to medicines into effect, amend existing national legislation one by one. so we are going to have the council adopt, if it agrees, and we have every reason to believe that it will, a recommendation to ensure that the necessary adaptations are made in each of the national laws, pending, of course, the updating of the european system, which, i remind you, will only come into force in a few years' time. these are the answers i wanted to give at this point, thanking you for your attention.
- this meeting is adjourned. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
- the next item is the report (a5-0355/2003) by mr de rossa, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on petition no 461/2000 on the protection and conservation of great apes and other species threatened by the illegal trade in bushmeat (2003/2078 (((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((())))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))
commission. mr president, we lacked the imagination, when preparing my statement, to include the aspect of hunting in europe. i see that quite simply as being outside the scope of what one would normally expect this initiative to cover and fully agree with mr de rossa, mr corrie and others who have addressed this misunderstanding. we have enough real problems to cope with. the remarks made by mrs mathieu and others about hunting not being the only threat to these species are very important to bear in mind. there are two separate aspects: that of a deliberate threat, driven by greed, and that of a threat that is driven by people's need to survive. both are equally dangerous for the species we are talking about. in this discussion i see a parallel with the difficult issue of the need for africans to change and move from a pastoral lifestyle, where they roam the countryside grazing their cattle, but in which there is an imbalance between the number of people and cattle and the square kilometres available. it is this pressure on land use, reflecting urbanisation and population growth, which many people do not expect to be a problem in a place as big as africa. however, when one looks at the environmental constraints, such as access to water, africa is not so big. the pressure on forests is one such systemic, ongoing and dramatic pressure which presents perhaps the greatest obstacle to establishing a sustainable alternative because the issue has to do with poverty and with real problems. we should mount a strong front to tackle the problem of criminal acts driven by greed. trying to convince logging companies to act within the law and to adhere to regulations, and for this to be more widely recognised by governments, is part of the drive to create a minimum of decency in matters relating to forestry in african countries. this is quite clearly part of the action and our policy. finally, there are many aspects to the trade issue. one is quite simply our own legitimate defence of our health standards. we stopped imports of nile perch from lake victoria for a number of years until we successfully managed – and this is one of my pet cases – to create an effective phytosanitary control. these exports are now up and running again and we have recreated thousands of jobs on a sustainable basis. i find it a little strange, however, that we have not done anything similar when it comes to bushmeat. what people have said in this debate is quite correct: ebola is one threat and there are many other very difficult aspects of this trade which require considerable attention. at the same time, many people depend for their survival on being able to hunt and eat bushmeat in their normal, traditional environment. we should respect that. we have had the debate about the brain drain. maybe we can start discussing the protein drain, where the temptation to get our hands on exotic protein should be countered by focusing greater public attention on the issues involved. i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteur for this initiative.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mr ford has the floor for a personal remark under rule 122 of the rules of procedure.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on eu aid to iran following the earthquake.
commission. the agreement which we have been discussing with our syrian colleagues but which has not yet been initialled would, in my judgment, provide a solid platform for economic and political reform in syria. the dismantlement of tariffs and the opening of markets will be an important incentive for syria to undertake legal and institutional reforms. the agreement would also help syria to integrate into the world economy and could be a stepping stone towards other initiatives, such as syrian membership of the world trade organization. the provisions on the respect for human rights, on non-proliferation and on cooperation against terrorism would, i trust, strengthen our ability to engage with syria on these issues. as regards the facilitation of regional integration, the agreement would complete the network of euro-mediterranean association agreements with our mediterranean partners. it constitutes the final step for the euro-mediterranean free trade area envisaged by the barcelona declaration. we should now continue working together to ensure trade liberalisation between the mediterranean partner countries themselves. the agreement would be the most important element in our policy of constructive engagement with syria. it is our belief that the agreement should strengthen the incentives for reform in syria, both by creating a more open economy and society and by establishing a political dialogue on issues such as respect for democratic principles and human rights. i believe that the united states shares our fundamental objective of integrating syria into the international community as a country that abides by international law and cooperates, we hope, on non-proliferation and against terrorism. the association agreement should be seen as a framework for a long-term engagement with syria in this respect.
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement with syria. but i wanted to ask you to clarify the last part of my question: do you share the views expressed by the united states on relations with syria and its role in the region and the achievement of peace? the method followed by the european union is different from that followed by the united states. the objective may be common in the larger context, but the methodology is different. do you share the fears specifically expressed by the united states? do these fears have anything to do with european union policy?
commission. the commission welcomes parliament’s interest in its report on the programme for action. we share the overall assessment that substantial progress has been made, but further action is needed – by developing countries, by eu member states and other donors, by the business sector, by ngos and by european institutions – to confront and fight hiv/aids, tb and malaria. we recognise that these diseases affect different people in different ways and that women, children and the poorest sections of the population are often most vulnerable and most severely hit. this should be documented, wherever practically possible, by developing countries, with support from the international donor community. at the same time, we should avoid portraying women only as victims and make an effort to recognise the tremendous contribution they make in terms of caring for people living with hiv/aids or for children left behind. women comprise that group of the population which is most affected, in a negative sense, by poverty and disease but strangely, at the same time, that group shows the biggest potential for change and hope. i note with satisfaction the importance attached in the report to our cooperation with the world health organization. this is now recognised more visibly through the strategic partnership which is being developed between our two institutions and which, for example, has led to the signature of an agreement to provide eur 25 million of community funding to support the who in developing its pharmaceutical policies. i also understand the emphasis placed by the rapporteur on access to basic health services and on the wish to see increased funding for this sector. the commission is open to increasing – however we can – support for health and other social services. however, this is a demand-driven process in which our partner countries are in the lead. as to the global fund, our contribution has been steadily increasing, with the vital support of parliament. we have now secured funding for the next four years, both from the community budget and from the european development fund. despite this, resources for the global fund are still far from adequate. we are committed to working together with the member states to find a sustainable solution. the eu as a whole – the member states and the commission – have so far contributed more than 50% of the money in the global fund. that is a figure worth keeping in mind in view of the complaints made now and then by other donor countries. access to affordable medicines is an important element in our programme for action. through tiered pricing and the untying of aid we have managed to contribute to a process whereby prices on medicines have been reduced by up to 90%. supply of medicines at tiered prices is essential and the european union has adopted a regulation to prevent the re-importation into europe of medicines sold at tiered prices in developing countries. that is very important. the report rightly points to the important role that research and development of new medicines and vaccines could play in fighting these three 'killer diseases'. more needs to be done in public and private research to develop new products which target these diseases. it is clear that pharmaceutical companies could play a constructive role in addressing these needs. the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership aims to facilitate such a contribution from industry. the commission is already contributing to this initiative, but we also expect member states and industry to allocate resources. i should like to respond to mrs sandbæk's remarks concerning the negative impact of the mexico city policy carried out by the bush administration in washington. i agree with the choice of wording put forward by mrs sandbæk. we have reacted to this policy, which was announced when president bush took office, by saying clearly that europe is ready and willing to fill the decency gap, and that is what we are doing.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of women's rights and equal opportunities. madam president, commissioner, i would like to present on behalf of the committee on women, of which i am chairman, our opinion on the excellent report drawn up by mrs sandbaek. i'm introducing her in the absence of mrs valenciano. unfortunately, commissioner, after half a century of promises, analyses and development aid plans, most of the so-called developing countries are not only not on the path to development, but are sinking ever deeper into poverty and the deadly diseases of our century. the victims of this situation are, of course, women, the population group that lacks access to even basic health care and sexual and reproductive health services. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. however, commissioner, if women were in charge, i believe the world would be a much more humane place. i think it is a shame for our civilization that 30,000 people in the developing world die every day from diseases that in our civilized world are treatable. tuberculosis is the leading cause of death in women of reproductive age, even exceeding maternal mortality. the number of women infected with the aids virus is high and growing, affecting not only the women themselves but also, if they are pregnant, their children. as mrs sandbaek said, 13 million children are orphans and this number, to the glory of our civilization, is forecast to reach 25 million by 2010. as the committee on women's rights, we call on the governments of developing countries, the union and other international organisations active in this field to ensure that the gender dimension is fully integrated into all health policies, taking into account the primary role played by women. i would also like to welcome the agreement of the wto members in august 2003, despite disagreements and lengthy procedures or delays, as well as the efforts of the un to provide high quality medicines to aids patients and the decision of the council of the union on increased incentives for pharmaceutical companies to sell medicines at reduced prices. i think we should intensify our efforts to combat this great scourge, commissioner.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the aim of the report is to strengthen a few large fisheries undertakings by means of economic and institutional measures so that they can improve their competitiveness. the rapporteur justifies the increase in these quotas by referring to the undeniably high nutritional value of the product, its economic value, employment, conservation of resources, etc. these reasons cover the fact that this measure concerns a few large companies in the eu and that the developed countries also overexploit the world's marine resources, which is harmful to the poor countries and developing countries, as the international fisheries agreements are unfair and guarantee the rights of the strong. if this report, which deals with subsidies for the modernisation of the fishing fleet, export subsidies, customs duties and technocratic barriers to imports, is adopted, it will provokingly strengthen the ownership of specific enterprises and make the international division of labour even more unfair, with the poor countries and the developing countries losing out. i would point out that the report rightly calls the withdrawal of large tuna vessels unproductive and disastrous, and therefore proposes that they be abolished and replaced by fleet modernisation. but the same subsidies for the withdrawal of small and medium-sized coastal fishing vessels and medium-sized fishing vessels are, according to the eu, structural funds supposedly designed to balance the respective sectors. this contradiction shows once again the class policy pursued by the ruling circles of the european union. it affects small and mediumsized fishermen and benefits the large capitalist fisheries.
in writing. - (el) the there are several points in the report in question with which we agree. for reasons of principle, we agree that it is necessary to guarantee the right of the peoples of europe and the world to cultural self-determination and cultural diversity. the report is partly correct in formulating some of the causes of the growing cultural homogenization and commercialization (pressure from the wto, internal competition both between the us and the eu and within the eu, the inability of unesco to fulfil its role, etc.). we believe that cultural diversity is one of the last safeguards of the historical existence and continuing identity of peoples, and that it is also a historical necessity (which the report also recognizes), and we therefore consider the measures proposed to be completely inadequate. the problem cannot be solved within the framework of organisations such as unesco, the council of europe or - especially - the eu. the only way to halt and reverse this course, which is so disastrous for culture, is for the people to take matters into their own hands, to rebel against the idea and practice of market laws dictated by imperialist globalisation and to demand respect for their cultural values. for the reasons stated above, the kke did not support the report and did not take part in the final vote.
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, i should like to begin by saying that my group fully supports the text of the report we are discussing today. the moraes report is in line with the spirit and the letter of the tampere decisions, which have explicitly called for a more active policy of integration of immigrants, with the aim of granting them rights and obligations equivalent to those of citizens of the union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. the europe of human rights and the rule of law must move forward in recognizing the fundamental labour and political rights of migrants, in recognizing their contribution, their valuable contribution to the economic development of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that a huge moral issue is being created by the position of many conservative colleagues who happily accept the exploitation of migrant labour, especially in jobs that have been abandoned by europeans, and who see them as a good solution to the demographic problem, but who do not discuss the recognition of political rights for them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. my political group has been fighting for the last ten years for a humanitarian approach to the problems arising from the large movements of migrants and refugees, and we are fighting for a pluralistic and multicultural union, for a unity in our differences, where everyone has a place and rights, without discrimination and without artificial walls between us. european integration, social cohesion and the lisbon strategy will be unattainable objectives, as you have stressed, commissioner, without the full protection and implementation of all the human and political rights that european governments have promised to guarantee. i would like to express my satisfaction that i heard mr ahern this morning confirm that the promotion of human rights is among the priorities of the irish presidency. only if their rights are respected will people of different origins and cultures feel part of the community in which they live and work legally, with rights and obligations in their daily lives, work, education, language learning, housing, health services, social services, cultural environment and political activity. we have repeatedly proposed in this parliament that full recognition of civil rights be given to those who have completed five years of residence in the european union. i would also like to ask, mr president, as chairman of the committee on women's rights, something which is missing from the commission's communication, to include a gender perspective in all policies concerning the rights of migrants. women are the most vulnerable group and often the first victims of economic and sexual exploitation. this is why special measures are needed to combat discrimination and to facilitate their integration into social and professional life. such measures may include vocational training, childcare facilities, personalisation of their rights, counselling support, specialised surveys, etc.
council. the council confirms to the honourable member that on 9 december 2003 the european commission and syria reached an understanding at technical level on all remaining issues in the negotiations on the euromed association agreement. when it enters into force, this agreement will replace the existing 1977 cooperation agreement which, as part of the global mediterranean approach, currently links the two sides. the items of the future agreement will now have to be politically approved by both sides, paving the way for ratification by both sides. the council underlines that on the political side the draft agreement intends to provide a framework to conduct regular political dialogue on international issues and mutual interest, fostering mutual understanding and promoting the convergence of views. in particular it includes essential provisions on respect for the democratic principles on fundamental rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights; cooperation to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery in line with the conclusions of the external relations council in november 2003; and the exchange of information and joint efforts to prevent and fight against terrorism, including the implementation of the relevant united nations resolutions. with regard to the second element in the honourable member's question on the middle east peace process in general, the council invites the honourable member to refer to the presidency conclusions of the european council meeting held in brussels on 12 december 2003. in paragraph 61 the european council recalled that a comprehensive peace in the middle east must also include syria and, of course, lebanon. finally, there was a third element in the question. the council has not commented on positions taken on this matter by the united states, nor does the council intend to do so at this stage.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer that question. i feel that i cannot insist that you reply to the part where you have clearly stated that you do not wish to comment, although i believe that an open dialogue showing the commonalities and the different approaches between the european union and the united states is not negative, it is positive, in order to make us aware of the situation and our joint action. can you tell me more specifically, please, how this agreement with syria, which we hope will be signed and put into practice, is serving the political and economic interests of the european union in the region? what is the particular role, the position, the weight of syria in the barcelona process? does it relate to lebanon and to the objectives of the european union through the agreement with lebanon?
council. my reply will be very brief. the honourable member's attention is drawn to the fact that under the treaty, it is not for the council to comment on the interpretation of community legislative acts.
mr president, the president does not need to be so brief. it's the last question, and we've got half an hour. i am not asking him to comment on something foreign, i am asking him to tell us about a directive adopted by the council, which has been brought forward by the president of the european parliament in connection with a referral to the european court of justice, which has been brought forward by non-governmental organisations and which provides that children aged 12 and over - imagine if it were our daughter or your daughter or the daughter of a colleague or the daughter of someone working here - aged 13 and 14 years old, will take exams to be reunited with their families. we cannot deal with this matter with such a technocratic and insensitive response from the president of the council and i ask for a substantive answer.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative to draw up this report stems from our shared conviction that the barcelona process needs to be accelerated, and in particular the need to strengthen the european economy and the european labour market by creating new and quality jobs. the service sector covers a wide range of private and public sectors. it is the fastest-developing and most dynamic sector of the european economy. over the last 20 years, about two thirds of the growth in gross domestic product in the european union has come from the services sector, and the largest increase in the employment rate is again in this sector. today services account for about 69% of total employment. the aim of our policy must be to increase this percentage, and it is worth mentioning that in the united states the corresponding figure is 80%. at the same time, we must be aware of the uneven development of the services sector between the countries of the european union. the countries with the most severe structural problems, such as greece and portugal, have the lowest rates of employment in services. the new member states, with the exception of cyprus, have similarly low rates. our policy, both at european and national level, must play an important role in the development of services. effective regulation of services markets is essential to protect consumer interests, preserve quality and guarantee fair competition. however, there are still very rigid regulations, which suffocate economic activity. it is urgent to identify and implement measures with clear objectives in order to ensure a satisfactory level of protection for service providers and for the services themselves, so that they can be established throughout the territory of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the implementation of these infrastructures depends on the liberalisation of energy and telecommunications markets for easy and cheap access to them and on the transeuropean networks programme to increase market capacity. the committee on employment and social affairs calls on the european commission to present a white paper proposing policies for each sector of employment, so that we can have the implementation of an effective european market soon. the committee calls on the european commission to propose a directive on services in the internal market to tackle the obstacles to the movement of workers and the provision of services. the commission has also proposed that the member states should reduce the bureaucratic procedures for setting up and operating the services. it is necessary to create an appropriate framework of conditions and regulatory, economic and fair competition provisions, to promote new forms of work in the service sector, such as part-time work, teleworking, temporary work, to create conditions for a suitable and continuously trained staff, flexible and productive, to create quality and healthy working conditions and to tackle undefined work which, in addition to degrading work and workers, is also a source of distortion of competition, investment in innovation and in the service sector, because industry is currently the most interested in investment in innovation. we must therefore invest in innovation and research, both in the private and public sectors, which are particularly lagging behind, and link service policy with policy to support small and mediumsized enterprises, and in industry in general, because there is an interdependence between industry and services. we must develop entrepreneurship among young men and women, promote self-employment, because the development of new activities in services requires courage, imagination and innovation.
the commission. mr president, i should like to thank mrs cratza in particular for her initiative in drawing up this report, because it is a fact that the development of the service sector is directly linked to tackling the problem of unemployment, that is to say, to creating jobs. as mrs cratza said, there is a close link between the growth of an economy and the rate of employment in the service sector. if we do not take into account that by 2010 we must create 22 million jobs to meet the lisbon target, and that according to the data we have 67% of jobs are created in services, we can understand how important the development of services is for achieving the goal of full employment. the proposals in the report are very much in line with the objectives of the european employment strategy, as embodied in the 2003 employment guidelines adopted last july and which we have discussed repeatedly both in the employment committee and in the plenary. i would like to mention some aspects of the guidelines which are essentially in line with the proposals in the report. i would remind you that guideline 2 makes very specific reference to entrepreneurship, to the relationship between job creation and entrepreneurship, and calls on member states to encourage innovation in entrepreneurship, investment capacity and a business-friendly environment for all businesses. of course, there is a link between these particular sectors and adaptability, namely how specific enterprises, the specific public sector will be able to change their forms of organisation, to promote lifelong learning, to promote the issue of gender equality, so that it is easier to move from the manufacturing to the service sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the field of employment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. a second category of initiatives and proposals from the commission concerns investment in human resources. we cannot develop services if we do not invest in human resources. there we have the commission's proposals on research, training, lifelong learning and the specific objectives set for the member states in relation to their education systems, whether this concerns the early stages of children leaving school or support for families and social infrastructure. the third important initiative of the commission is that yesterday it adopted a proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, which will give added impetus to this sector, with favourable effects on employment. so, taking into account these three areas, namely, first, the specific guidelines in the employment strategy, which essentially and largely concern the need to develop services, secondly, the need for investment in human resources and, thirdly, the directive on services in the internal market, i think that from the european union's side there is an important framework which could help the member states to implement their respective national policies. i would also like to stress that it is clear in mrs krachta's report that she is not calling for the creation of an additional instrument, but for greater specialisation in the existing employment strategy, because of the specificity of the services sector. i fully agree with her and of course this debate will continue in the european parliament for quite some time.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, the development of the services sector is the great hope of the young generations for their integration into the new economy. there is no sector of the economy that is not becoming a service sector, including the private sector, in which the services provided are not becoming more and more important. it is right that there should be a wider mobilisation for the potential horizons opened up by services, and i should like to congratulate my dear colleague mrs cratza on her initiative in this respect and on the report she has drawn up. as a member of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which has given me the honour of drawing up the opinion, i would like to mention some aspects of the link between internal market issues and the development of the labour market, in particular the services market, and anti-exclusion policies. as we know, the future of the internal market and the real benefit to the consumer will depend on the degree of development of crossborder transactions. but the crossborder supply of services is still declining. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes - directive 76/207/eec - is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. in addition, in order to strengthen the crossborder provision of services, both directly to consumers and between businesses, it is necessary to consider the strengthening of electronic commerce, and from this perspective to promote and exploit the new consumption patterns that generate services and, of course, to ensure consumer confidence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. i would also like to point out that the service sector is the most important sector for the absorption of people with disabilities and for keeping older people as active members of the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. the policy of services of general economic interest has so far, according to estimates, produced positive results, but we do not have a complete picture of the precise effects on employment, and therefore, in view of today's resolution on the green paper on services of general economic interest, the commission should systematically record the effects of the liberalization of these services on employment, depending of course on the degree to which the needs of the social group are met. in conclusion, the report provides an excellent opportunity for a new horizontal reading of the various policies of the european union in the light of their contribution to the development of services.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the directive is aimed at further liberalising the labour market to the benefit of big business and, at the same time, it is clearly damaging the labour and professional rights of the few categories of workers who still retain such rights. in this context, the aim is to maximise the ability of firms to secure a surplus of skilled labour, to select as much as they need and when they need it, to depress the price of labour, to infringe workers' rights and gains and, more generally, to enhance the exploitation of scientific manpower. at the same time, it is an indirect but clear interference in the education system of the member states, despite the contrary provision of the treaty on european union. the separation of professional and academic equivalence is the means of enforcing an educational model that limits the extent and depth of higher education to the minimum requirements of enterprises, i.e. it is far below the academically accepted level. it is an educational model that degrades higher education as a whole and creates a specialized scientific workforce without depth of knowledge and therefore without requirements. as regards the content of the directive, we note that, under the pretext of simplifying recognition procedures, the minimum conditions for access to the legally protected scientific professions are much lower than those already in force in many countries of the european union and in greece. each member state shall allow the pursuit of a profession to any foreign national or national who has completed training recognized by another member state for the pursuit of the same profession, irrespective of the level of such qualifications. in other words, an engineer graduating from a three-year course automatically acquires the same professional rights as a graduate of a five-year course in greek craft industries. in addition, the directive equates vocationally any post-secondary education qualification, whether acquired at a higher education institution or at a vocational school. even professional experience or traineeship can, according to the directive, be equated with three or four and five years of education. in greece in particular, the directive is intervening indirectly and creating a situation of certainty in order to close the doors on issues relating to education, which are the subject of intense debate and controversy on the part of the parties concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. in order to implement the above and to overcome any obstacles at national level, the directive attempts to regulate in detail every possible case and to exclude any possible derogation. it also sets up a special single committee to recognise professional qualifications and to monitor the implementation of the project. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we propose that the academic equivalence of qualifications be made a basic condition for the recognition of professional equivalence, which will be based on the conditions of the host country. we also demand that all laboratories or study centres that are affiliated with foreign universities and sell their degrees be closed down and that the system of university education rights be abolished altogether.
the purpose of the zappalà report, mr president, is very important, because through mobility, which of course requires mutual recognition of qualifications, we are giving workers more opportunities within the european single market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of higher education is not compromised. in greece there is a particular problem in this respect. because of the lack of private universities, we have a world record of student immigration. in view of this situation, european universities are cooperating with the so-called liberal studies centres in greece. these degrees are not recognized by the state and the social problem of thousands of people is growing. we have raised this matter in the past in the commission, both myself and colleagues on the left, not mr alysandrakis, and the european commission has been clear on this. he says that degrees should be recognized. the same was said recently by the court of justice of the european communities in the neri case in relation to a similar case in italy. however, because the problems of the greek education system are perpetuating themselves, i tabled an amendment which was approved by the committee so that, without any legal obstacles, european diplomas could be recognised one hour earlier and without greece being condemned by the court of justice of the european communities. not only that, but with a legal security regime, renowned european universities should open branches in greece, so that the level of studies can be raised through competition and stop student emigration. in order to avoid misunderstandings as to the level of education, we tabled a second amendment, together with mr trakatelli and mr zappalà, which takes the obvious course, namely that member states are entitled to subject the various institutions which cooperate with universities in other member states to the control mechanisms applicable to their own universities. in greece, in recent days, and after the uproar that has been caused, there has been a change in the positions of the leadership of the socialist party with regard to non-state higher education. the logical consequence of this change is the adoption of our own amendments. i hope that will be reflected in the vote, mr president.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is that the movement of selfemployed people, and in particular of those in regulated professions, is being made easier than it has been so far, with a view to developing the internal market and the services sector, which is lagging behind. the second guideline should be to ensure the quality of the services offered during crossborder movement. in this spirit, the main innovations of the proposed directive should be examined, such as the distinction between cross-border provision of services and cross-border establishment, the proposed levels, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. on the other hand, the innovation of the directive, which introduces the concept of common bases, should be particularly welcomed, because it allows for the active participation of the liberalized operators in the context of strengthening their crossborder cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to move to another member state, and that the european union is not obliged to do so. for this reason, it is important that the provision of degrees certifying the theoretical training of graduates who have completed their studies in several countries, require as a necessary condition that their studies are provided in all countries by recognized educational institutions and not by enterprises that are not covered by the official education system of the host country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of the laws of the member states relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report. the amendment proposed by mr hajidakis is therefore dangerous.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the service sector is particularly important for large-scale capital in the eu because industrial activities are increasingly moving to other parts of the world. the kratsa report follows the line required by the conditions imposed by big business on this sector, and the content of the report shows how the eu's neoliberal policy is tackling the problems. the focus is on improving competitiveness, harmonising the service sector with competition policy and the crossborder provision of services, while entrepreneurship is seen as the solution to all problems of unemployment and underemployment. the so-called open method of coordination of national policies is also promoted, and it is nothing less than a mechanism for imposing eu policy without seemingly involving the eu institutions. the report also praises the new forms of work, parttime work and temporary work, while hypocritically talking about improving the quality of these forms. it is argued that the retirement age should be raised and that the 'beneficial' effects of privatising universal services should be recognised. it goes without saying that the standard phrase of improving the conditions of women and the handicapped and using new technology is not lacking either. for these reasons, members of the communist party of greece in the european parliament voted against the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the texts under debate concern the few immigrants who manage to escape the controls carried out by border guards and electronic records with new biometric data, not immigrants arriving on european charter flights so that they can stand in line to become 'legal' immigrants. even for these immigrants, the conditions for obtaining a residence permit, at least in greece, are insurmountable. in other words, people who have been in greece for 10, 20 or 30 years will still be illegal immigrants. the ruling class wants them to be illegal so that it can hold them physically and mentally hostage. the text cynically admits that immigrants are useful in solving the eu's demographic problems, in meeting the need for largely unskilled labour and in implementing the lisbon objectives. the resolution warns that 'managing immigration does not mean failing to address the reforms of the eu labour markets ... which are necessary to increase labour market integration capacity and the overall ability to adapt to economic change'. the aim is to over-exploit immigrants so that flexible forms of employment and the reduction of wage costs in favour of the overall monopolies can more easily be integrated into the eu's working system and the coercive measures are more easily accepted by people under the pretext that it is a matter of fighting illegal immigration. for these reasons the communist party of greece did not support the resolution.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the commission has decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the region is not further aggravated by the threat of nuclear weapons. nothing is sacred to the imperialists of the eu. they have no compassion for human suffering and misery. even though we know this, we cannot help but get angry when we read texts like this, especially when it is signed by all the political groups. in return for the 2.3 million euros the eu is providing (small compared to the 31.3 million us dollars needed for the first three months), it is demanding all sorts of things from iran: compliance with the additional protocol to the non-proliferation treaty, dialogue on respect for human rights, speedier reforms, etc. we refer all those who are lying to themselves about the human face of the european union to paragraph 12 of the resolution, which states that the solidarity shown by the international community is also an expression of support for the forces in iran that are fighting to ensure that the country continues to strive to increase democratization. the resolution also does not fail to promote the "generosity" of the american president. we are the last to support the iranian regime. but solidarity should be in the direction that the iranian people want, and not in the direction that the imperialists want.
i want to raise a matter which has unfortunately been pending since august 2003. five community nationals, citizens of the european union, are being held by the pakistani authorities. there the greek-owned ship tasman spirit sank in the port of karachi and, unfortunately, even the cook is being held, even people from the salvage company who went after the accident are being held. this is so that the karachi port authority can bargain with the insurance company for the premiums they have to take for the disasters that actually happened. i had put the matter to the president of the european parliament before christmas. he was sensitive, but unfortunately, the matter is still open. what i am asking is for the president of the european parliament to intervene again, perhaps by calling the pakistani ambassador or even by asking commissioner patten to tell us what steps have been taken by the european union. the italian presidency and the commission were mobilized and we must not allow anyone to bargain for premiums by holding european union citizens hostage.
mr president, even today i think many colleagues in the house are not particularly satisfied with the agreement before us. i understand the reasons for their reaction, but if they go back a little, six or seven years ago, and look at where we were, they will see that we are facing a very important step, a very important step for europe, a very important step for the european citizens. as you, mr president, have been personally involved in the conciliation process, i think you understand better than anyone else that this is a very important step in reducing delays and that we are therefore strengthening air transport, protecting the environment better and supporting european tourism more effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that until the last minute there was a problem with the cooperation between military and civil authorities on the one hand and there was also a problem with the way in which the single operational units, the blocs, were defined at international level. the european parliament has pressed for some steps to be taken. maybe the steps that should have been taken weren't taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not stop here. it is worth pressing the member states even harder to be bolder in their approach and i think, in closing my brief statement, that in this context it would be a failure not to note the extremely positive role of the european commission, and in particular of the commissioner, for whom i suppose it is perhaps one of the greatest achievements she has had in her tenure so far as commissioner responsible for transport. we should thank her and congratulate her on that.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i think we are all aware that today's discussion concludes with a historic step forward in the construction of europe. we have broken a taboo, mr lisi said, and we might perhaps have liked to go even further and have brought more into common, and i am sure that in the coming years there will be amendments to these two regulations, to this legislative package, to make it more perfect. once the level of confidence is raised, the implementation and reality of the single sky is standardised, and we all see how the elements related to the concepts of sovereignty and defence, which are present in airspace, can be combined with the most appropriate, most efficient and safest airspace management in european civil aviation. in that sense, i would like to thank you very specially, mr president, because it is true - mr dimitrakopoulos - that your work in the conciliation process was key. the work of the two rapporteurs, mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte, and of all those responsible for the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism was also key, as i said a moment ago. i would like to say that for the commission, and certainly for me personally, this is one of the three great initiatives which i will always remember from my time in the european commission. we shall then discuss another one, the galileo programme, as soon as this debate is over. in this initiative, together with galileo and perhaps with others - maritime safety, although there are some who do not see it that way - we have carried out a real revolution and have changed the boundaries, the frontiers of what europe is. with this initiative we have europeanised airspace, which was not european. with this initiative we are really creating a european airspace, we are creating a european sky, and we are also combining the guarantees for the member states. ladies and gentlemen, i will just give you a brief reflection: some of your colleagues say that the whole question of functional blocks should be a matter for the community; mutatis mutandis, although it is not exactly the same, it is as if the commission had full powers when defining the routes of roads, railway networks and when constructing them. we must also take into account the will of the states. the commission must provide that european rationality and that european component which, perhaps, is not always present in a national vision, but it is obvious that without the member states this type of action cannot be developed. i would like to say that eurocontrol has also made great strides over the years. and i think that we have contributed something to these improvements because eurocontrol is aware of the process and the momentum that is there and in that sense i am very pleased that we have been able to finally achieve the full community participation in eurocontrol, which has been very important, as well as the articulation of its collaboration throughout the single sky process. i would like to conclude by saying that what we have never done since the commission took this initiative is to throw in the towel. some of them may have thrown it away at some point, the commission certainly did, and i personally have not. as i said, i started in january 2000 with a series of meetings involving civil and military officials, when there had not yet been any progress, as has been done over the years, in defence matters. there was no cops or anything like that and yet they came and, i insist, at that time, it was thought that our initiative was impossible. we have been able to separate the issues and resolve what could be resolved and not to try to solve everything by paralysing everything. because we all know very well that one way to keep anything from moving is to pretend to achieve perfection overnight. i think that what we have achieved today is very important, and that it is precisely this mixture of vision for the construction of a single european sky and realism which has guided the action of parliament, the commission and - i mean - the council, which allows us today to congratulate ourselves on a positive result, which is a very important step, which we all know will be followed by other steps, but which is the first step in this new frontier of the single european sky.
- thank you for your speech and kind words, madam vice-president of the commission. the negotiations on this subject, on which we have all worked very hard, but also with very positive visions, have been concluded. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0003/2004) by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the progress report on the galileo programme (com (2002) 518 - 2003/2041 (ini)).
mr president, we are faced with a new definition of priorities and objectives. the white paper clearly speaks of a demand-driven space policy, and both the white paper and previous texts and official statements make clear the intention to use space for military purposes. some say that space systems are dual-use anyway, civilian and military. i would just point out that it is a political decision to use one or the other. the fact that there are weapons capable of destroying the whole world, for example, does not mean that we will allow them to be used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will ask them to reduce their devotion to free markets and competition policy and i will propose public funds for space research and exploration. i would also warn of the anger of the popular movement if it were attempted to use space for political defence and security, a purely aggressive policy aimed at turning the european union into a second world policeman alongside the united states of america. the new orientation can serve business interests, which will benefit both from market mechanisms and from state resources for military applications. but it serves no one else. on the contrary, the european union's entry into the military use of outer space is a serious escalation in the arms race, extremely dangerous for world peace. it is truly a pity that man's most advanced achievements are being used against him. but this is an inevitable feature of the capitalist system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is a very good occasion today to discuss the excellent laschet report on european union-un relations, while at the same time welcoming kofi annan, not only as a person but also as an institution, as a symbol of an irreplaceable need, of the un. the report we are discussing is not just a proposal for eu-un relations but a proposal for a strategy for the un itself at the dawn of the 21st century. the un, although generally expressed in its creation the need for a peaceful world, reflecting the balances of the end of the second world war, is in need of some adjustments. today there is new data and it must be expressed. but until they are effectively expressed, the role of the un is irreplaceable. many viewed the un as a haven for small countries that had no other way to express their views. but the crisis in iraq itself and its impasse show that the superpowers need him as well. the attempts at new international balances, such as the enlarged g8 or the messianic missionary views of the various superpowers on their own role, have led nowhere. but in proposing a strategy for the un and the european union, we find ourselves facing serious shortcomings which we must address. misunderstanding at the un security council, we've seen it all lately. the enlarged european union, with 25 members, will be able to express much more members in the security council, since it will be able to be represented by three different geographical areas of the un. this possibility, combined with the presence, which i hope will be, of a foreign minister at the un, will provide a lot of possibilities. if the new distribution of powers leads the european union, without the other countries losing their seats, to a seat on the security council, it will enable it to support policies of peace, cooperation, security, democracy and all the other common human rights that we must achieve.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's space programme is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear accidents. the development of the eu's satellite navigation system galileo would be a gift to mankind if, despite assurances that it is a purely non-military system, there were not too many signs that the european imperialists would also use it for military purposes as part of their ambitions to share the task of global policeman with the united states. during yesterday's debate commissioner de palacio mentioned that the system will have a signal that is only available to the states, in addition to the signals that are available to everyone. although mr piétrasanta's report has more positive elements than previous reports on this subject, there are still gaps in the question of military exploitation. for the reasons stated above, the kke members of the european parliament have neither voted for nor against the report.
in writing. - (el) as i said in my speech yesterday, the members of the kke in the european parliament voted against the report on space policy, partly because the amendments we had tabled against the use of space for military purposes and for defence and security policy purposes were not adopted. we condemn the position of the group of the european people's party (including new democracy), where almost all voted against the amendments, but also the position of the socialist group (including pasok), which, although it voted for an amendment which supported the principle of the use of space for exclusively peaceful purposes, voted against an amendment of the same meaning which expressed opposition to the use of space for military activities! we don't believe this erratic behavior is indicative of a split personality. it is merely a ruse and an attempt to put on a smokescreen, an alibi to cover up their general support for the militarisation of the eu and the militarisation of space.
mr president, it is a disgrace for the european parliament to receive with honour the president of colombia, mr álvaro uribe vélez, tomorrow. it is a disgrace to the socialists who proposed it and to all those who accepted it. mr uribe and his government, with the support of the united states, are responsible for the deaths of thousands of trade unionists, peasants and other popular activists. they reject national reconciliation, they ignore the multiple recommendations of the un commission on human rights and they seek to quell popular discontent by military means. the presence of mr uribe here shows that the european union is inclined to get involved in the 'colombia' project, through which the united states is intervening brutally in that country, seeking to gain overall control of the region. we condemn all external interference and demand that all governments stand with the colombian popular forces to stop the bloodshed and the paramilitary action, to protect peace and to respect human rights. we express the full solidarity of the communist party of greece with the colombian people and are confident of its final victory.
mr president, i would like to express my disgust and indignation at the despicable anti-communist resolution adopted by the recent 16th congress of the people's party, which equates barbaric, monstrous nazism with communism and calls for a new witch-hunt against members and cadres of communist parties who remain true to their high ideals. the people's party is insulting the memory of millions of communists who gave their lives to free humanity from the nazi monster. it is also a sign of support, if not of dictation, for the primitive anti-communism and the gross violations of human rights in the former socialist candidate countries. it restores a spirit of revenge that only portends misery for our peoples. we must not forget that the persecution of communists has always been followed by the persecution of any progressive conception. the people do not forget that the communists started the persecution and hitler. with this shameful but extremely dangerous resolution, the people's party is in fact seeking to halt the workers' struggle against reactionary anti-people policies. they want to strike at the leaders of this struggle, who are the communists who remain true to their ideals, because the pilgrims are their friends and protectees.
rapporteur. – mr president, the report i have the honour of presenting is an own-initiative report on credit rating agencies, which are business organisations of good standing in the markets. however, their reputation has been shaken somewhat by the recent spate of financial scandals, starting with enron and ending with parmalat. the parmalat fraud is especially relevant as it concerns bondholders: precisely the section of the market that rating agencies are supposed to protect. until a few days before the crash of these companies, they were unable to do anything about protecting the public. these failures have prompted debates in the united states, investigations in the us congress, the us securities and exchange commission, the international organization of securities commission and other international fora. there is a specific european angle on this matter. rating agencies that are one hundred years old in the united states are relative newcomers in europe. in some cases they have given indications of not understanding european business mentality. they have created friction, especially in germany. the other point of special european interest is the inevitable remark that whatever the nature of the regulation of the agencies – however mild and indirect – it has its seat exclusively in the united states, in the form of the securities and exchange commission. the fact that nothing similar exists in europe makes for an unbalanced transatlantic relationship which might become troublesome if it is not redressed in time. these considerations prompted the original proposal of the report in favour of the formation of a european registration authority to be considered by the commission, an authority to which agencies would report on their activities and with which they could establish a regulatory dialogue, a dialogue of equals based on the european security ratings committee, on topics of mutual interest – excluding, of course, any intervention in the substance of the opinions issued by the agencies. it is interesting that the securities and exchange commission has recently expressed interest in making contact with the csr on this matter. the majority of the committee on economic and monetary affairs found this proposal too avant-garde and recommended re-examining the whole area of operations of rating agencies without including in their recommendation anything as specific as the creation of a european registration authority. with all due respect for the majority opinion of my colleagues, i beg to differ for two reasons. firstly, because a regulatory authority operates in the united states and, secondly, because – as i have already said – the lack of a corresponding authority in europe creates a potentially harmful imbalance. i have therefore asked my political group to help me out by resubmitting the proposal for a european registration agency in the form of an amendment, and i urge all colleagues who originally may have differed on this point to think again. this is not a party political issue, but it is certainly a political issue because it involves the interests of europe as a whole. the alternative is that the agencies will eventually – such is the strength of feeling in favour of some regulation of their activities – be forced to report to 15 or 25 national financial authorities in europe, something the agencies themselves must view with horror. rating agencies must continue to do good work. we have proposed no heavy-handed regulation, but, without a european registration agency, we will be failing to attain what is obviously our main objective. while thanking my colleagues for supporting various other useful proposals, i urge them to think again about this.
the commission's proposals on working time, mr president, are in line with the employers' demands for flexibility in working time. they increase the intensity of the exploitation of the working class and maximize the profits of big capital. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the basic rights of workers, such as the fixed daily working hours, the eight- or seven-hour days, the five-day week, are thus abolished. collective agreements are concluded and fixedterm contracts are extended. the right to insurance and regular leave is being destroyed, and further flexibility in employment relations is being promoted. any positive arrangements are overridden by the exemptions provided for and the application of the 'opting-out' clause imposed by the united kingdom and used by other countries. it is the one that drags workers under pressure to secure a job. this is a system of modern wage slavery, which forces a large proportion of the workforce to work an average of 48 to 70 hours a week, with deteriorating safety and health conditions and very serious consequences for the mental and physical health of workers. we support the reduction of working hours, the introduction of a genuine 35-hour day with a fixed seven-hour working day, five days a week, an increase in wages and full social security and labour rights that will apply universally to all workers and all businesses. we are fighting with the workers to overturn the current anti-working law framework and flexible forms of employment.
mr president, commissioner, once again we are faced with a new threat to public health. this disease shows that communicable diseases go beyond the member states and require immediate measures to prevent and protect the health of european citizens. on 1 february 2004 the world health organisation pointed out the risk of human-to-human transmission of the avian influenza virus. so far, 19 people have died, 23 have been infected, and the virus has appeared in 10 asian countries. the microbe is highly contagious, but the delay in the information once again helped it to spread. the european commission may have underestimated the risk, considering that the microbe is not transmitted from person to person. but we do know that influenza viruses are genetically unstable and their behavior cannot be predicted. so this particular epidemic can change rapidly and continuously. i certainly welcome the measures taken to ban for six months imports of meat and poultry and imports of live birds as pets from asian countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. as you well know, the microbe is also carried by free-ranging birds during their migration. we need the expertise of the international food agency so that appropriate guidance can be given and the importance of preventive vaccination stressed wherever possible. history has taught us that in cases where a disease has an economic impact on the agricultural sector but can also harm human health, the risk to humans should not be underestimated but should be a priority if we really want to maintain consumer confidence. i do not think that has happened so far since the measures announced. finally, commissioner, we must be sure that farmers in the affected areas are able to have the appropriate means to incinerate animals infected with the disease without risk of spreading it.
commission. mr president, i have been asked a number of questions and i will endeavour to answer as many as possible. first, mrs jackson asks whether i am satisfied with the inspection services that we have, particularly in relation to our work in asia. in relation to the fvo, i should say that i have not sent the fvo to thailand in respect of this particular outbreak. the experts who are there, who have been offered by me, have been supplying their services through the world health organisation and are in place working with the oie in situ, in vietnam particularly. the fvo will be involved in this exercise only when it is believed there is something profitable to be gained from it, that is in circumstances where there is the possibility of lifting the ban. i have made it clear on a number of occasions publicly that it is not my intention to lift this ban on the importation of thai chicken until such time as there is an independent evaluation of the situation there, in view of the history that a number of you have referred to. the evaluation will be made as a result of a visit from the inspectors of the fvo and following a report from them as to the situation. mrs jackson also asked me whether, in view of the likelihood of concealment, we are getting good information and whether we have a proper rapid response team in place. as i indicated in my earlier remarks, there is in existence an early warning response system. this system is in place, working from luxembourg, and has been in operation for some time. you will remember when i reported to parliament last year on the sars issue, i also pointed to the work of this committee. there is a communicable diseases network which also works in conjunction with the relevant authorities in the member states. i am absolutely satisfied that the system of rapid response that we have in relation to animal and human diseases is very effective. you will remember the very quick response of the commission and my services to the outbreak of foot and mouth disease some years ago, when the commission responded within a matter of hours and all the relevant authorities and member states knew within a matter of hours that there had been this outbreak in the united kingdom. the same is true of public health because we have this system in place. mention was also made of the next item on parliament's agenda: the legislation establishing the european centre for disease prevention and control. i can assure parliament that the evidence is there that the commission and other institutions of the european union are working well to respond quickly to these kinds of issues and to give proper information to the public and, indeed, to respond well and appropriately to outbreaks of this kind. on the question of food labelling, there is community law in place relating to labelling. it may need upgrading and i am looking at that. the legislation in place requires country of origin labelling and certification and stamps from countries such as thailand. so, if cooked chicken from thailand comes pre-packed it has a stamp on it which indicates that and the label also states the country of origin which, as i indicated in this case, is thailand. mrs roth-behrendt asked me if we are doing enough in respect of avian flu and, in particular, blocking food products from asia. it is important to emphasise that we do not trade in any poultry products with any country in asia other than thailand, so the responses given relate to that country. of course we are concerned about the outbreak of animal and bird diseases in other parts of the world and we make sure that we respond properly to those issues. as a number of people mentioned during this debate, we must not lose sight of the fact that we have had these outbreaks of avian influenza in the european union also. we had an outbreak in italy two or three years ago; we had an outbreak in the netherlands last year; there have been outbreaks in belgium and germany too. mrs roth-behrendt also asked me what i am doing about imports from china. it is public knowledge that we banned imports from china some years ago; there was a lot of publicity about that at the time. there are a number of food products we do not import from china, including poultry. on the question of research into vaccinations, this is being done – dg research does have a research programme on food safety. on this same subject which mrs roth-behrendt and others referred to, an informal meeting of the health ministers of the eu and accession countries will be taking place in brussels on thursday evening. one of the items on the agenda is the question of the stockpiling of vaccines in respect of diseases of this kind, of which flu is obviously one. we had a discussion in parliament last year on appropriate responses to the bioterrorism issue, such as stockpiling vaccines against smallpox. there is ongoing work in relation to that also. however, i must emphasise, as mr liese has said, that the competences available to us at european union level in respect of public health issues are quite limited. an attempt was made to extend these competences in the european convention and we made some progress. i still have hopes that we might ultimately make more progress on this before the finalisation of the constitution. mr mulder asked me about the inspection systems. in his opinion inspections are not carried out at the same level for products coming in from outside the european union. under commission decision 2002/995/ec, all personal imports of meat in the luggage of passengers from asia have been banned with the exception of small amounts of specialist food products, such as baby food. under these rules, poultry meat and meat products carried by passengers cannot be introduced into the eu without conforming to the same health requirements as commercial imports. as i said earlier, no commercial imports of poultry meat are allowed from any asian country where the disease is present. mr graefe zu baringdorf then asked me whether i reacted quickly or only when the press publicised this issue. as has been indicated by a number of other speakers, i was in asia when this outbreak became public. i had been in vietnam, from where we do not import any poultry meat, so the issue does not arise there. but i had also been in thailand. it is public knowledge that in the early part of the week when i was there, there was some lack of transparency, if could express it in that way. i was concerned during the couple of days i was there at the mounting circumstantial evidence tending in the other direction. following pressing questions from me, it was made clear to me two or three days later that in fact avian flu was present, both in the human and bird populations. i am satisfied that my presence in thailand helped to improve transparency in relation to this issue. as soon as the presence of avian flu was confirmed to me on 23 january, i put a ban in place within a matter of hours. the ban went in place on that friday at 12 o'clock, brussels time. any suggestion that the commission reacted slowly is incorrect. i cannot imagine any greater degree of surveillance or monitoring than the commissioner being there himself, asking questions, not being satisfied with the answers, pressing further, getting the truth and acting within hours. mr gollnisch asked me about the risk of contamination of the united states virus. it is believed, but not yet confirmed, that this virus is a low pathogenic virus and therefore would not require the same degree of response as for the asian influenza from thailand. however, that is not confirmed, we are still looking at it and our response will depend on our information. i assure him that the lifting of the ban will only take place after independent evaluation of the circumstances. mr fiori asked me about pet birds and other birds. a ban has been put in place in respect of the importation of pet birds. he asked me about coordinating groups. there is a regulatory committee of the eu, which includes member states' experts, who deal with that. he asked me about links between globalisation and diseases. the oie in paris continues evaluating the situation. the commission is a member of that, member states are involved. they are meeting later this month in relation to this issue. the sps agreement is also a relevant contributor to the protection of animal and public health in relation to the wto issues. mr de roo asked me about borders. once again, i refer back to the lack of competences that we have in relation to borders and communicable diseases, but i hope more progress will be made on this. i refer him also to my earlier answer that the health ministers are meeting later this week to deal with many of the issues that he raised about the public health aspect and in particular vaccinations. mr parish said that it was only when i returned that i discovered there was a problem and that i reacted well. as i indicated earlier, that was not the case; i reacted while i was there and the commission responded well to this issue. we have not banned cooked meats for the reasons that have been stated. i am advised that cooked meats above 60 degrees – and we put in a safety margin of another 10 degrees – are safe for human consumption. the inspectors in the european union, and in the member states themselves, know what is necessary and carry out appropriate inspections to ensure that there are no breaches of community law in relation to this issue. he also referred to labelling and i refer him to my earlier answer. mrs oomen-ruijten asked me whether we followed the member states' lead in this. the actual chronology of events is that on 23 january the commission put in place the ban in circumstances i have already outlined; member states responded with the regulatory committee confirming that ban on 6 february; and a further ban was put in place in respect of feathers – mr nicholson asked me about that – on 28 january. mr sturdy asked me how long it took for the ban to be put in place. i have already answered that question. there were a number of questions in relation to the number of inspectors at the border posts. this is a member state competence. the member states themselves make sure that they have enough officials to ensure that the importation is properly inspected. the food and veterinary office inspectors monitor this when they carry out their inspections. they report, and the reports are public. there are no reports of any concerns in relation to this. on labelling, i refer you to my earlier answer. concerning feathers, again i refer you to my earlier answer: that ban has been in place since 28 january. mrs cardoso made reference to the vulnerability of pigs and i would confirm that this is a concern and is being watched very closely. there have been reports of some infection found in the noses of some pigs in vietnam, but it has not extended any further and there has been no evidence of mutation of the flu virus. this is, however, being watched very closely because of the similarity between the immune system of pigs and of humans. therefore, as she rightly points out, it is of considerable concern. mr wyn asked me whether the health authorities are doing everything that they can to stop the spread of this disease. i am impressed by the work undertaken by my own staff. i have had detailed consultations and briefings and i am satisfied that their own work, their interaction with the who, the fao and the oie, and also their interaction with the experts in the member states, indicate to me that this issue is being taken very seriously, that the officials, at both national and international level, understand the seriousness of this and that they are doing everything in their power to ensure that the disease is not spread. one of the difficulties being faced in some poorer areas is that the stamping-out of the disease is best achieved by killing the birds in question. this is of course a matter of concern in poor countries, because unless the authorities involved face up to the question of compensation there is a risk that a disease of this kind may be hidden. that may be a contributing factor to the earlier lack of full transparency about this issue in that part of the world. this has to be faced and we have to emphasise it in our relations with the authorities in member states. these kinds of diseases cannot be hidden, their presence will come out, will be known, and the consequences ultimately will be worse for those countries who engage in that exercise, because they undermine the confidence of the authorities engaged in food safety, like ours in the european union. the stringent measures necessary before the ban is lifted in thailand, with the requirement that there will be independent evaluation, will be particularly necessary in this instance because of the lack of transparency at an earlier stage. we must be assured that our own authorities are satisfied, which is why no lifting of the ban in thailand will take place until the fvo has carried out an inspection on the ground and reported back that things are satisfactory.
commission. mr president, we are watching the situation in vietnam very carefully and in particular the spread of this disease there. there may be a risk that the outbreak of the disease there is more serious and more widespread than in thailand. i believe that to be the case. i must emphasise that we do not import any poultry from vietnam, so there is no risk to public health. there is no risk to animal health from direct importation from vietnam and therefore our concern in this relates to ensuring the containment of the spread of the disease in asia itself as a matter of general interest, but it is not related to any further risk as a result of any importation of birds, because we do not engage in that kind of trade with vietnam.
commission. i know that mr mulder is interested in this matter and that he has had direct contact with my cabinet about it as recently as in the last few days. the items he mentions as requiring financing are being financed. the question is: under what heading will they be dealt with? if it is believed to be necessary to transfer from one budget heading to another and that this is the best way of dealing with it, then this can be done. this matter is under review. however, it is important to emphasise that the items he mentions as requiring financing are not being under-financed. they are being financed. whatever refinement may be necessary in the future can be dealt with at that time.
- it'll be at the beginning of the afternoon session, 3:00.
- the next item is the report (a5-0038/2004) by mr bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com (2003) 441 - c5-0400/2003 - 2003/0174 (cod)).
mr president, commissioner, recent data in the health sector have shown that a single member state, even if it has all the necessary means, cannot effectively tackle all the threats. the spread of epidemics is facilitated by population movements, environmental and social changes, globalisation, wars. the community, alongside its obligations under the treaties, must also respond to the concerns of citizens. this is why the creation of a centre focused on early diagnosis, assessment and communication of existing and emerging public health risks in a rapid, flexible and effective way is more than necessary. the european centre for disease prevention and control will coordinate and support the work of the european commission, the member states and the epidemiological monitoring and control network for communicable diseases. it will work in conjunction with all existing public health services, such as the world health organisation and the european food safety authority. on behalf of my group, mr president, and in the light of recent events - and i refer to the previous debate we had on avian influenza - i would like to stress that we agreed with the rapporteur's proposal to close the matter at first reading and to have the centre operational in 2005, even if we are not entirely satisfied with the council's positions. i would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting my suggestions to extend the scope of the regulation to other serious health threats, not just communicable diseases. i would also like to thank him for accepting the need to record and properly manage the impact of recent epidemics not only on physical but also on mental health. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur once again.
mr president, today is an important day because, after many years of discussions and findings on the need to strengthen the union's capacity for timely and coordinated action on threats to public health, we are finally discussing the establishment of the european centre for disease prevention and control. in the last 20 years, there have been 30 new infectious diseases or variants of old ones, due to mutations, viruses, or even old diseases that are resurfacing, like tuberculosis, to give one example. all these public health crises, as well as the most recent ones of sars and avian influenza, have highlighted the weaknesses and gaps in existing structures. i would like to believe that the centre, with a small but adequate scientific organisational structure, will be able to fill these gaps effectively. however, in order to be effective and efficient, it must be the central point of reference and coordination for all the national monitoring centres and reference laboratories in the member states. i would like to thank the rapporteur because not only did he accept the amendments i tabled, but then, in conjunction with them, two very important points were adopted and accepted, which were not included in the original proposal. the first concerns the development of a strategy for vaccination, which is a very important weapon in the fight against the challenge of infectious diseases. the second concerns the identification of current public health issues and the promotion of relevant applied research, in order to strengthen our preventive capacity and to promote the effectiveness of the coordinated actions undertaken. mr president, i hope that we will overcome the last hesitation and that the centre will soon become a reality, albeit in the relatively limited form in which it appears today.
commission. mr president, this interesting debate highlights the urgency and importance of this proposal. the political pressure to have the centre set up and running as soon as possible reflects the needs and concerns of european citizens. for the europe of today, where millions of people cross national borders every day, we need to be in a position to take rapid, coordinated action at eu level to best protect the health of our citizens. this is precisely what the centre aims to achieve. by pooling our scientific expertise and reinforcing our rapid alert systems, the ecdc will allow better preparation and swifter and more effective responses to disease outbreaks. in summing up this morning's debate, i would like to focus on three central issues in the proposal which have been key areas of concern: the mission and the tasks of the centre; the possible extension of its sphere of operation; and the composition of the management board. there is broad agreement between the institutions on the initial scope of the centre. we all agree that it should start with communicable diseases and be able to respond to cases of unexpected outbreaks of unknown origin. the council and parliament share the view that there needs to be an external evaluation to assess the feasibility of extending the scope based on the performance and impact of the centre, as resources permit. clearly, the budget for the centre will dictate its expansion, and beyond 2006 this has to be decided within the new financial perspectives. to enable the centre to start, and for it to make an impact, the commission is prepared to accept this approach, but it means that when the question of the need to extend its remit arises we should – and would – expect parliament and the council to address such a proposal rapidly, under the codecision procedure. as regards the organisational aspects of the centre, the proposal provides for responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the centre to be granted to the director. the advisory forum is the place for the director to seek advice from his or her peers – and the forum would ensure the shared ownership of this venture with the member states. the commission can accept the extension of the membership of the advisory forum to stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations and academics. it will be an advantage for the director to have broader views when developing the operation of the centre. the management board should steer policy and make decisions. the commission’s proposal balances this dual responsibility in a way which we consider to be the most efficient and transparent. this approach is based on the principles defined in the commission communication on the governance of european agencies. in a resolution adopted last month, parliament welcomed this communication, recognising the need to limit the size of the boards of the agencies. the commission wants to follow a consistent approach on this matter, as currently each agency seems to follow a different path. i now note that the council and parliament have reached agreement on a board for the ecdc to consist of one representative per member state, three from the commission and two from parliament. the commission considers that a board of 30 members is unwieldy and may hamper the decision-making process. although, given the competences involved and being exercised here, i agree with the rapporteur that a good case can be made for one member per member state being on the board. the commission notes, however, the terms of the compromise supported by council and parliament and is therefore willing, despite our concerns, to go along with this compromise, given the importance that it attaches to the rapid establishment of the centre. the commission notes that the evaluation provided for in article 31 of the regulation will cover the working practises of the centre, including the composition and functioning of the management board. a full listing of the commission’s position on each of the amendments is being made available to parliament commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. in short, this states that the commission accepts all amendments that are part of the compromise package as set out by the rapporteur. i also join with the rapporteur in urging that amendments outside the package should not – and cannot – be accepted by the commission. i conclude by thanking the rapporteur and parliament. when i formulated this idea in my mind some years ago, i not only got the support that i would expect from my own services, but also very strong support from parliament. we should be proud of ourselves today. by voting tomorrow on this issue we are reacting in a timely way in circumstances where we see communicable diseases on a global basis. we have discussed it in the last debate here in parliament. we can proudly say to our citizens that we are responding well and quickly to their needs in relation to issues associated with communicable disease. sometimes we can be unduly pessimistic and critical of ourselves. this is one occasion where we can stand up and say that we have done our work well and quickly, we have responded to the needs, and we can look our citizens in the eye and tell them that we have done our work well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
- the next item is the report (a5-0022/2004) by mr garot, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the development of agricultural incomes in the european union (2002/2258 (ini)).
mr president, the rapporteur is making a genuinely honest attempt to exaggerate the common agricultural policy and its tragic consequences for farmers, but he is doing no more than repeating the arguments which the commission has at times invoked to justify the unjustified cap and its revisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what kind of social and multifunctional agriculture is the rapporteur talking about when in the reference period 1995-2002 the labour force decreased by 15.7%, with a corresponding decrease in rural households? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. it is reported that in the period 1995-2002 agricultural income increased by an average of 7% in the european union as a whole. however, this increase is less than 1% per year, i.e. much less than the average growth of the european union's gdp over the same period, and concerns an economic sector in whose products the european union is in deficit. in addition, no analysis is made to see which farms have had an increase in income, how many small and medium-sized rural households have had a decrease and how many have gone bankrupt. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not yet available. the unfair distribution of community subsidies to the detriment of small and mediumsized farmers is a permanent proof of the capitalist nature of the cap, which is designed to concentrate land and production on a few capitalist farms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the reality does not agree with the contradictory and preconceived conclusions of the report. it is so bleak that it leaves no room for alchemy or for further misleading the peasants. the common agricultural policy of eradication will be opposed by the small and mediumsized farmers of my country and of the european union, who are becoming more and more aware every day that its overthrow is a condition for survival and that the common agricultural policy must be implemented. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the agricultural sector in the european union is facing many problems. the greek farmers in particular are fighting for their future. they are fighting to remain farmers on their land or join the ranks of the unemployed in the cities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and a strong district means strong farmers. we must implement a policy which guarantees the farmer a decent income to be a householder in his own land; to have employment, prospects, a future, a productive horizon for his children. a region without farmers means a country without a future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural incomes are maintained at a decent level. it's also a big social and moral issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is necessary, now, without delay, to combat red tape by simplifying the procedures for the integration of young farmers into community initiatives, to encourage the development of organic products with less paper and more support, with cheap certification of organic products, with the full advisory support of farmers by the agricultural and veterinary experts of the ministry of agriculture. we must give the greek farmer the optimism he lacks today, the faith that his work has a future and that his future is close to his land, with prospects, with a serious income and with dignity.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have tabled amendment no 8, which adds a new paragraph 4c, in the interests of achieving the widest possible consensus of a report that deserves support because it represents a new opening in our policy towards financial markets. i wish to change a word that will give more flexibility to the report and make it acceptable to more colleagues. i will read the amendment: 'calls upon the commission to undertake all necessary steps, including in particular a cost-benefit analysis of the effects on european capital markets, to assess the establishment of a competent european registration scheme'. this word replaces 'authority'. the rest remains unchanged. this change gives the flexibility desired by certain colleagues and i look forward to their support.
in writing. - (el) we, the representatives of the greek communist party in the european parliament, voted against the motion for a resolution on the 60th session of the united nations commission on human rights because the motion broadly proclaims that the eu is the 'honest' judge of respect for human rights, but says nothing about the gross violations of human rights in the eu, such as the persecution of trade unionists, electronic archives, surveillance of private life under the pretext of fighting terrorism, violation of the right to housing and equal work and access to health care, education and social welfare, and by professional standards, etc. furthermore, the proposal criticises the commission for human rights for being highly politicized, thus clearly indicating that the refusal of the majority of its members to comply with the wish of the eu and the us to condemn states and thus precisely serve their ideological and political means (cuba, china, north korea, vietnam, belarus, etc.), avoid attacks on the us, where executions and gross violations of human rights are a daily occurrence, propose a "fair" trial against saddam hussein, while the proposal not only does not propose a trial against bush, blair and their co-accused, it also declares them as guarantors of justice, "exploit" human rights to pave the way for the common foreign and security policy, in other words, military intervention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the european commission is trying to strike a balance between the increased financial needs of enlargement and the difficulties of the economic situation and the choices of strong member states. but sustainable development in the member states must be supported and the role of the european union as a global partner must be strengthened. the new financial perspective must also send a clear political message of equal treatment and solidarity between the member states, but, let me concentrate on this point, it must also meet the needs of the regions affected by the so-called 'statistical convergence'. the citizens of these developing regions see cohesion policy as the main element in the idea of european union, and i do not agree at all with the view that has been heard in this chamber that there are no beneficial effects of this policy. at the same time, the citizens of these regions wanted and agreed to the large-scale enlargement which is being completed in a few weeks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is clear that there must be a smooth decoupling of these regions from community aid, with a transitional period of gradual decoupling of support. it is absolutely essential to ensure adequate funding for this period. any consideration of reducing, even substantially, the funds that would have been allocated to these regions in the absence of enlargement jeopardises the effectiveness of the cohesion policy currently in progress and should therefore be seen as damaging to the credibility of the european union itself.
commission. - mr president, mr alavanos is asking me an important question on a subject which has always interested me, since, as he knows, i was minister for the environment in my own country and, as you will see in the future cohesion policy which we will be presenting next week, i am very attentive to questions concerning the environment. the question is about the operation of the sewage treatment plants in greece. the information i have indicates that 233 waste water treatment plants have now been completed in greece. however, to cover the needs of all the greek municipalities, 600 would be needed. most of the treatment plants already built have been built with community co-financing, either under the cohesion fund or under the erdf, under the integrated mediterranean programmes, successive community support frameworks or community initiatives. under the regulations in force for the erdf and the cohesion fund, the greek authorities must declare that these stations are operational at the time of submission of each final report for the closure of assistance. however, the same regulation does not give the commission a mandate to verify itself, after the closure of programmes or projects, the proper use and maintenance of the co-financed infrastructure. this is a very important task, which i would say is almost self-evident, and which falls within the responsibility of the member states. however, the provision we are discussing today, article 10 of the council directive of 21 may 1991 on the treatment of urban waste water, provides that member states must ensure that, i quote, 'treatment plants are operated and maintained in such a way as to have a sufficient yield in all the normal climatic conditions of the place where they are located'. article 15 (4) of the directive authorises the commission to request information on the operation of all waste water treatment plants whose construction has been financed by the structural funds. i can tell mr alavanos that's what we're going to do. if there has been a malfunction, the commission will take the necessary measures, including the possible initiation of an infringement procedure, to ensure the proper application of community legislation. exceptionally, and in particular if treatment plants have been abandoned, the commission will assess the possibility of recovering the funds under the existing rules. these are the useful and, i believe, precise indications i wanted to give mr alavanos.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, on behalf of my colleague mr alavanos. the question interests me very much. if i understand correctly, i would like to have your confirmation that so far the commission has not carried out any inspection under this article which would enable it to check whether these biological cleaning processes are working. i would like to repeat what is in the question, that from my own experience and from my travels throughout greece, i see that most biological stations are either not working or malfunctioning or operating from time to time. this is a very serious matter. complaints have also been made to the commission and reports to the european parliament. when do you intend to make such inspections ? you said you'd do it. when do you plan to do them?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as the deadline approaches, we find that the glass is both half full and half empty. there is no doubt that progress has been made in the difficult conditions created in the council by the different cultures and approaches of the member states. the european council in thessaloniki made considerable progress on migration policy, as you yourself acknowledged, commissioner, but the issue of the recognition of the rights and social integration of migrants does not seem to be high on our political agenda. and that is certainly not in keeping with what we are advocating for europe, for humanist values and respect for human rights. the directive on family reunification, as formulated in the council, is essentially prohibitive and i consider it important that the european parliament has taken the content of the directive to the european court of justice. as regards asylum, i would like to express my condolences to the council, commissioner and council representative, for its failure to adopt the two directives on the definition of a refugee and the procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status, which were also promoted by the greek presidency. meanwhile, the geneva convention on refugees is known to be raging across the european union. as regards the fight against international organised crime, i consider that no progress has been made in this area when thousands of children and women are trafficked into the european union every day for the purpose of sexual exploitation. i think that this failure is partly due to the lack of effective operational cooperation between the police authorities of the member states to combat this phenomenon which is an insult to our culture. the irish presidency's attempt to close the issue of the creation of a database of immigrants' personal data with biometric data such as fingerprints and digital facial photographs will, i believe, create serious deviations from the issue of respect for and control of the handling of personal data. we hope, commissioner, that new ideas and a new strategy for tampere ii will be generated.
in the case of the greek government, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. as we pointed out during the debate on the report, it aims to further liberalise the labour market to the benefit of large companies, it intervenes in the member states' education systems by imposing a model of education which reduces higher education and it harmonises the qualifications necessary for access to regulated professions downwards. for example, as regards engineers, apart from the issue of unequal treatment at the expense of qualified engineers who have completed a five-year course at a higher education institution, which is equivalent to graduates with a three-year course, the deterioration of the profession resulting from the directive gives rise to serious public interest issues and pressing social and grassroots demands in sensitive sectors such as earthquake protection, construction and the improvement of the natural and man-made environment. the plenary also voted in favour of the amendments which pave the way for the recognition of imitations of diplomas issued by university institutes, the well-known liberal study centres linked to foreign universities, which equate their graduates with those of greek higher education institutions, despite the fact that the courses at these centres are not recognised as higher education in greece.
council. again, i stand by the answers that i have already given on this issue. i would hate to think that anything i have said could be interpreted as indicating any partial approach to any human rights issue anywhere. human rights is a universal concern and i would not like it to be thought that the irish presidency, or indeed any other presidency of the european union, would adopt a partial approach to issues relating to human rights. we have to be consistent, and, as i have already said, the vienna convention on consular relations provides the framework in the light of which any issues arising should first be addressed.
council. at the risk of repeating myself, as regards access by relatives to prisoners, the honourable member well knows that the position is that all states have an exclusive and unqualified right to decide on entry to their territory by non-nationals. that is well recognised in international law. the second point is that if the cuban government, which is clearly responsible for its own citizens, feels that issues arise that constitute an infringement of the vienna convention, it has an opportunity to address those issues. there is really nothing further the presidency can add to this.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. in this particular case, we are well aware of the inhumane treatment of these people, which is in breach of international law and human rights. what did these people do, mr. chairman? they were convicted as criminals for trying to prevent the crimes of terrorist organizations, hired by the united states, against cuba and the assassination of their leaders, including fidel castro himself. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. the european union is not saying a word about the release of these patriotic fighters for democracy, but is fully aligned and involved in the campaign against cuba, which is a beacon for the peoples of the region. the european union is not only a member of the united nations, but also a member of the international community, and it is also a member of the united nations.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european maritime safety agency has not been in operation for very long. however, the commission has proposed to extend its functions in three very specific and topical areas: the fight against pollution caused by ships, the training of crews and marine protection. i would point out that the recent maritime disasters have made it clear that new measures are needed at european level, not only in the prevention of pollution but also in the provision and management of resources to combat pollution when it occurs. the agency's action in the field of pollution control will complement the provisions in force in the member states and add value to the actions already undertaken at community level in the field of civil protection. it will complement the intervention systems of the member states and will in no way replace them - nor is it intended to do so. for this purpose, the agency may charter specialised and multi-purpose vessels. in addition to providing the appropriate means, the agency shall provide technical and scientific support to the union states and the commission in this field. as regards the minimum level of training for seafarers, our proposal is simply a comparison with the existing provision in the regulation of the agency, with a more important role for the community, under directive 2001/25/ec. it is therefore invited to contribute actively to the new procedures for the recognition of seafarers' certificates of competency issued in third countries. in the field of civil protection too, our proposal seeks to take account of the new community competence for improving the safety of ships and port facilities. the regulation introducing this new competence will enter into force shortly, thanks to the agreement reached by parliament and the council at first reading. the agreement requires the commission to check the effectiveness of the control procedures introduced by the member states. the agency's assistance is fully indicated in the conduct of these inspections. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. although this approach is more restrictive than the one we have advocated, the commission could accept it. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i note that the positions of the council and parliament on this matter are very close and i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr mastorakis for the work he has done. i think the amendments are constructive and i think that this will enable us to reach an agreement with parliament quickly and thus give the agency these new powers, especially the management of the means of combating marine pollution. this, together with the modification of the allocation of funds in the budget for the current year and the next, will enable us to have, at european level, ships to combat marine pollution on the high seas, to deal with what we regrettably cannot avoid, namely the possibility of new disasters like the ones we have had, since there is no zero risk. we must try to minimise the effects of these, if they ever occur.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european commission has proposed to extend the agency's remit to support the existing community framework and mechanism in the areas of accidental or deliberate marine pollution and civil protection. we have discussed the scope of this extension at length in our committee and with officials of the european commission and we have come to almost unanimous agreement on the golden ratio which the council can accept. a key element of the proposed amendment is that the agency will generally act in an auxiliary capacity without calling into question the competences of the member states, and will provide its assistance to the european commission. i do not conceal from you that there has been intense reflection on the transfer of responsibilities, not only safety but also security, and finally we have decided to accept what is possible. it is a matter of concern to the commission, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of this. our belief is that when we talk about a protective mechanism it is obviously preferable to have a mechanism that is at least less equipped but as fast as possible. the speed with which we have organized the response to cases like prestige is what is most important to us at the moment, and it is for this reason that our parliament has set up a temporary committee to find out exactly what has happened and to make proposals for future action. the amended regulation will also be evaluated so that, if necessary, the process of improving it can be advanced. by the way, i want to ask once again to stop the unacceptable treatment of the captain of the prestige apostle magura as a criminal. such behaviour is not humanly acceptable and it is driving quality young people away from the maritime professions, with obvious dangers to global shipping and our seas. in conclusion, and thanking all the political and administrative actors who took part in this process, i would point out that our committee disagreed with the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets, considering that they were not appropriate to be included in a regulation such as the one being amended, for reasons both substantive and formal.
mr president, the fact that in our committee mr mastorakis' report was adopted by 45 votes to 1 shows, i think, quite clearly that there is a consensus in almost the whole house on its content. we have made it clear from the outset that we agree with the european commission's proposal to extend the responsibilities of the maritime safety agency. it is necessary that this should happen and i think the prestige wreck has made that clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the position of our party and of the european parliament in general in the sterckx report is also indicative of this. it was here that ideas were first proposed which are now being proposed by the european commission. i am glad that today, here in this house, i can reiterate on behalf of the european people's party our support for the mastorakis report, which has made an effort to reach agreement with the council so that we can quickly and at first reading put an end to this matter without delay. the rapporteur's attempt to reach agreement was difficult in many cases because points of convergence had to be found with certain member states which had some issues to raise concerning the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, not as a representative of the european people's party but as a greek mep, since he has referred to this particular issue, i would like to say that i obviously agree with him on the report he made on the greek captain and i would like to hope that the spanish authorities will do everything possible to deal with him fairly.
mr president, mr robles' recommendation was unanimously agreed by the members of the committee, and we therefore encourage him to go further. the system of liability under the two international conventions is multi-faceted. in addition to the subjective liability, which does not work in practice, there is the objective liability of the shipowner, with a maximum compensation of eur 72 million, and the additional liability from the fund in the event of the shipowner's failure or exceeding this amount, which amounts after the amendment of 92 to eur 250 million. the extensive damage caused by the errika and prestige accidents demonstrated the inadequacy of the compensation provided. in december 2000, an attempt was made, on the basis of a commission proposal, to set up a european supplementary fund for damage to european waters. this liability would also be additional because the obligation to compensate would apply if there were no compensation from the funds. although this proposal was approved by the european parliament, it was not accepted by the council. it is a happy coincidence that we know that in may 2003 the protocol was adopted to establish an international compensation fund with a maximum compensation of eur 1 billion. it is again a supplementary fund. in the absence of community rules on compensation for oil pollution damage, the council's decision to accede to the protocol must be regarded by all of us as a very positive step. the european parliament must therefore give its unreserved assent on the legal basis of article 200 (3) of the treaty. it should be noted that there is exclusive competence in matters regulated by the protocol on the supplementary fund. however, there is no conflict with regulation no 44/2001 concerning jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments, since the protocol is based on the existing regime of the 1992 convention. it is clarified that this is not an accession of the european union itself but an authorization to the member states to ratify the protocol. the rapporteur rightly points out that this must be done as soon as possible, even before june of this year. we hope that in future negotiations the community will be able to become a party to the protocol, something which is not currently provided for in the protocol.
madam president, the present situation is the result of the continuous and multifaceted interventions of the americans and their allies over the last few years, both to overthrow the people's democratic regime of afghanistan and to impose their mercenary taliban, and to directly invade and occupy afghanistan militarily under the pretext of crushing terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. the report accepts these interventions and tries to propose solutions without calling into question the present situation. it welcomed the transfer of responsibility from the occupying forces to nato and proposed new funding to strengthen its position in the controlled areas, but there was no guarantee that this funding would be managed for the benefit of the afghan people and women in particular. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism, and for the eu to be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. it is hoping for democratic elections, while acknowledging that the conditions for such elections do not exist. at the same time, while noting that today the main source of income is opium cultivation, the primary income of which goes to local warlords, he does not deal at all with its further trafficking in the world and the involvement of the cia in it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andré brie, for his excellent report. the afghan people, victims of the new order, will be able to find their way if they resist the forces that promote it, whether in the form of religious fanaticism or in the cloak of a fake copy of a western-style bourgeois democracy, military interventions and occupation. in this fight, he must find us as his allies.
the importance which the european parliament attaches to respecting and safeguarding democracy and human rights everywhere and at all times is well known and is not negotiable. as a general principle, it has become our primary concern to require from all our partners the same respect and the same application without misinterpretation, differentiation or selective approach. in addition, our insistence on the control of the implementation and functioning of the principles of democracy, human rights, national minorities and gender equality is uniform and indivisible for everyone and everywhere. the link between european financial aid and full respect for these rights is also the same for everyone and everywhere. the european parliament's resolution on this point is intended to reiterate and emphasize this truth to our partners in the mediterranean cooperation, in order to avoid misunderstandings or different interpretations. good accounts make good friends. the deepening of political dialogue on democracy and respect for human rights at all levels will certainly help to consolidate and further deepen our bilateral relations and trade. the exchange of information, knowledge and experience between all partners, the resolution noted, helps to further the desired approach based on principles and rules that are common and respected by all. the commission's contacts with civil society and its reports of findings to all partners are a simple and clear tool for assessing the present situation, for praise or for intervention to be corrected. the recent exceptional elevation of the mediterranean forum to a parliamentary assembly has been a major step towards democratic dialogue and constructive consultation and understanding between the partners on both sides of the mediterranean. this political dialogue will make a major contribution to resolving any problems or misunderstandings and to supporting the process of rapprochement and cooperation, which will be conducive to stability and peaceful development and coexistence throughout the mediterranean region. i hope that the developments in the israeli-palestinian conflict, which still prevent unhindered rapprochement, will be brought to an end as soon as possible, without walls and separations, for the good of the whole region and its inhabitants.
mr president, it is a fact that the countries of the south-eastern mediterranean and the wider middle east are an important area of action for the european union's external relations, and this communication from the commission confirms this. it is particularly positive that the commission recognises that the marginalisation of women undermines political representation and hinders the economic and social development of the region. it is true that women in the mediterranean and arab countries, despite some improvement in conditions in recent years, continue to suffer from gender discrimination and inequalities. illiteracy, poverty, domestic violence, inadequate health care, low participation in professional and political life are the main characteristics of the lives of women in the southern shore of the mediterranean basin and the middle east. worst of all, however, women are the main victims of religious and political fundamentalism, ultraconservatism, and authoritarian regimes, which base much of their power on controlling women's sexual behavior, their way of life, their reproductive functions, and even their way of dressing. the best defence against the forces of backwardness and intolerance is, of course, to strengthen the secular character of the state and the democratic legal order. our message must be clear. no political system, religious movement, tradition or custom can be above respect for women's fundamental freedoms, human rights and the rule of law. as long as these basic elements of democratic governance are absent from many mediterranean countries, hopes for economic and social development and improvement of the position of women will remain dim and the resolutions of the conferences held within the framework of the barcelona process will be unrebutted. we therefore call on the european commission and the delegation to the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly to use all the mechanisms at its disposal to include clear clauses and commitments for the recognition and protection of human rights and women's rights and the rule of law as conditions, among other things, for the development of the mediterranean countries and the emergence of the mediterranean basin as an area of peace and cooperation.
mr. president, iran is celebrating 25 years of the islamic revolution amidst a deep political crisis, with thousands of progressive candidates barred from the upcoming elections and with millions of iranians who voted in favor of reform wondering where the country is headed. the extent of the exclusions also includes several prominent women who spearheaded legislative reforms and this has resulted in further deterioration of the position of women in iran. these are women with whom we have worked constructively in the women's committee of our parliament. 'elections are a symbol of democracy only when they are conducted in a flawless manner', said president hatami. however, it seems that above president hatami and the democratically elected representatives of the people is the powerful revolutionary guards council, which is trying to deprive the parliament that will emerge from the february 20 elections of any democratic and reformist voice. it is known that since 2000 over a third of the bills voted by parliament have not been ratified by the council. it is a fact that iran, a country with a long history and an important geopolitical position, can play a strategic role for stability in the region, especially in relation to iraq and afghanistan. but i fear that the hardliners' attempts to manipulate the will of the iranian people may lead not only to a parliament that lacks democratic legitimacy, but also to the weakening of iran's international position. without a doubt, iran's main problem is its power structure. no reform efforts and no progress in respecting human rights can be made as long as the guardians of the islamic revolution disregard decisions made through democratic procedures. the recent moratorium on stoning should be turned into legislation that will put an end to this horrible punishment once and for all. and on this occasion i would like to add one more thing. i hope that iran, in the sports delegation that it will send to athens for the 2004 olympics, will include women.
mr president, i would like to express my surprise and at the same time my anger at the situation we are facing with the four greek and three filipino seamen on board the tanker tasman spirit. this tanker ran aground last summer outside the port of karachi in pakistan because of a mistake by the pakistani pilot who was driving it into the port. the sea level was very low due to the tidal phenomenon, so there was a mistake on the part of the pakistani authorities and we had a dramatic event. of course, many tons of oil were spilled into the sea but beyond that the handling by the pakistani authorities was incomprehensible. the greek and filipino sailors were the only victims of this unfortunate incident. the question has not been dealt with in a comprehensive way so that we can see what the responsibilities of the company, the pakistani pilot, etc. are. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the gulf is not worsened, and that the situation in the gulf is not worsened. besides, we had something else: the head of the rescue crew, a greek sailor, went to help and is also being held by pakistani authorities. the situation is without a doubt tragic. i have personally met the families of seafarers who are frankly in a desperate state and that is why parliament must react, i believe it will react, because it is a question of humanity above all.
mr president, apart from what mr hadjidakis said, there is a relatively recent report on the circumstances of the shipwreck by the competent pakistani ministry, which does not contain any evidence that would even remotely support the charge against the seamen. also, the ship's insurers have long submitted proposals for compensation without receiving any official response from the pakistani authorities, and have spent over 20 million dollars on this accident, on the shipwreck's transportation, etc. we know that next week, on the 18th, the european union troika with commissioner patten will be going to islamabad and that they have managed to put this issue at the top of the agenda for eu-pakistan relations. we hope that this debate, which has long been a torment to our emotions and our reason, but above all to innocent marine biologists, will bear fruit. we note that there have been interventions by the greek foreign ministry, by george papandreou as foreign minister and by the deputy minister, without any substantive response from his pakistani counterpart. there's a terrible situation. in addition to what mr hadjidakis said about the greek sailor who tried to commit suicide, there is the following comic or tragic fact: attempted suicide is a criminal offence in greece. so now this man is on trial, this wreck, for attempting suicide. we hope it won't be a criminal offence to commit suicide when it happens. with such attitudes, as you can see, who will turn qualified young people to maritime professions, who will ultimately protect the lives of seafarers and the marine environment tomorrow? we are asking, mr president, that humanity, reason and legality prevail in this case at last and we are relying very much on the efforts of commissioner patten in islamabad the day after tomorrow.
mr president, i too would like to add a few words on behalf of the members of the communist party of greece and the whole of the confederal group of the european united left who, together with other groups, have signed and supported the joint resolution calling for the immediate release of the crew of the tasman spirit illegally detained since july 2003 in karachi by the pakistani authorities. this is a clear case of hostage taking for financial gain. it is significant that the crew is also being held in pakistan along with the engineer mr pappas, who arrived in karachi 20 days after the ship was docked as the head of the rescue operation, which was also successful. it is inconceivable that the entire crew should be detained because of the ecological disaster caused by the ship's mooring at the entrance to karachi harbour and that the ship's cook should be held responsible. moreover, the anchorage took place when the vessel was under the responsibility of the port authorities of the local shipowner. the situation is particularly worrying for the health of seamen who are detained and, without any responsibility, are prevented from returning home, which has even led to suicide attempts. we must stress once again that we cannot continue this unacceptable tactic which is being used by many governments and which is in the interests of ship owners and insurance companies, namely to use ship owners as scapegoats for resolving economic disputes and to shoulder responsibility for what happens at sea which they do not have. we call on the european commission, and in particular the presidency and the greek government, to intervene decisively and to demand the immediate release of the seamen detained in karachi. their hostage-taking cannot be prolonged and must end immediately.
mr. president, in an effort to end the conflicts plaguing the peloponnese, the oracle of delphi advised the warring parties in 776 b.c. to organize games, putting aside their differences, so that athletes and citizens from all over greece could participate in these games in safety. thus was born the ancient greek tradition of the olympic truce, which was observed for more than 1,000 years. the revival of this institution was promoted by greece, with the support of the un, the european council, unesco and the international olympic committee. in view of the 2004 olympic games in greece, the international olympic truce center was established and undertook a major campaign. over 400 personalities from around the world have co-signed the olympic truce text. the olympic games, which return this year to their home country and to europe, are a global reference point and can send, along with the message of sporting achievement, the message of a culture of peace. peace and dialogue are two objectives which the european parliament has always supported. these are values that we continue to put at the heart of our efforts, no matter how much time and effort it takes to achieve them. each of us, the members of the european parliament, is called upon to become an ambassador of goodwill for the olympic truce, promoting the message and culture of peace at all meetings, missions, interparliamentary committees and international forums in every corner of the globe where we frequently find ourselves. in this endeavour we look to the council and the irish presidency for their support and assistance. the central slogan of the olympic truce is: "if we can have peace for 16 days, maybe we can have it forever".
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0052/2004) by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu's policy towards the south caucasus (2003/2225 (ini)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the gahrton report on the south caucasus. the report is very good, it proposes a policy framework and contains specific proposals of great interest to this important and sensitive area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in recent months we have seen catalytic developments in the region, in georgia, armenia, azerbaijan. these days, the new president of georgia is in the united states, meeting with president bush. we're seeing a strong presence and mobility in the region from powell, from ivanov, from the us, from russia. what are we doing ? there's our representative in the area, but is that enough? the union sometimes appears as an observer, even if it is active, but this is not enough. the south caucasus is our neighbourhood, with centuries, if not millennia, of historical, cultural and political links with europe. the commissioner, who is a spiritual man as well as a political one, knows about prometheus, the argonaut expedition, the golden horn, jason, all of which are linked to the caucasus region. it is a region of particular interest to europe and to its hydrocarbon supply. we must not forget that the black sea and the danube are the gateways to the heart of europe. the union's priorities are often determined by the historical and economic relations of its member states with africa, latin america and south-east asia, and new realities are often overlooked. the european union is committed to the development of the region and to the promotion of peace and development in the region. there is a need for a stronger presence in the region, by upgrading our relations in terms of regional cooperation with all the black sea countries at economic, political and cultural levels. we have to understand that the region is, in essence, a part of europe, both culturally and culturally and historically, and we have to treat it as such.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m. because of the vote)
mr president, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, which i have the honour of chairing, i thank you for your statement on the occasion of international women's day and for the emphasis you and other colleagues have placed on the need for a balanced representation of women and men in the european parliament, which will be elected in june. however, mr president, i have already received a very serious complaint from the women's organizations of malta, who inform us that the leaders of the political parties have already drawn up their lists without including a single woman! i wonder, mr president, whether the population of malta is composed only of men and not of women. i would ask you, mr president, on the occasion of today's international women's day, to intervene personally in this matter and to remind the political leaders of malta that they must respect the principle of gender equality and the european acquis, otherwise their position in the european union is likely to be very problematic.
mr president, it is a great honour for me to address the house on the occasion of international women's day in the context of the oral questions procedure. mr president, today's international women's day, which coincides with the 20th anniversary of the existence and achievements of the women's committee of our parliament, is a very good opportunity to take stock of and evaluate our policy on gender equality. there is no doubt that in the last twenty years there has been considerable progress in all areas thanks to the political initiatives taken at community and national level, as well as the initiatives taken by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities of the european parliament, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank president cox for his support. the participation of women in the european parliament increased from 6% of the appointed parliament to 16% in 1979, when the first elections were held, and to 31% in 1999. we want and hope that this percentage will be further increased in the next elections to the enlarged europe of 25. gender equality and the full exploitation of women's productive potential are now widely recognised as a necessary condition for the success of the lisbon strategy and for the strengthening of our participatory democracy. of course, the greatest progress in the last 20 years has been in the participation and performance of women at all levels of education, as they now represent 55% of graduates in the european union. however, despite the undoubted achievements, significant gender differences and disparities still exist in all areas, as the first annual report of the commission, which will be discussed at the spring european council in a few days, shows. violence against women, trafficking in human beings, unemployment, incompatibility of work and private life, inadequate childcare and elderly care infrastructure, and inequality in pay and promotion are pressing problems that urgently need to be addressed, as they are directly linked to the violation of rights and to the viability and competitiveness of the economy. unfortunately, we are concerned and saddened to note that many member states, despite having incorporated all the community directives into their national legislation, are not willing to promote accompanying measures that will lead to the elimination of inequalities. it is disappointing that many member states do not even follow the council's recommendations. looking back over the last five years, the revision of the equal treatment directive in the labour market and the promotion of gender mainstreaming have been important steps in promoting equal opportunities. however, because it is not possible to speak of gender equality only in the workplace, we welcomed the initiative of mrs diamantopoulou for a new directive based on article 13 of the treaty, which would prohibit any discrimination in access to goods and services. it is a fact that with our joint efforts and within the framework of the future european constitution we can gradually bridge the gender gap in the union and act as a shining example for the rest of the world, for regions of the world where women are still fighting for their fundamental human rights. as we approach the 10th anniversary of the 1995 un world conference in beijing, where 180 governments agreed on a common platform for action to promote women's rights, we see that those commitments have not been met. women still represent 70% of the world's poor, girls in sub-saharan africa are six times more likely than boys to be infected with hiv, four million women and children are victims of violence and sexual exploitation; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in the context of the new challenges created by technological development and economic globalisation, we therefore need to renew and intensify action on women's rights, with a view to democratic and participatory global governance that ensures a fair distribution of the planet's resources, gender equality and sustainable development for all. we can discuss these in a new conference, which we will call 'beijing + 10', and for which we await an initiative from the commission. i would ask you, commissioner, to answer the following questions: firstly, what are the concrete results of the work of the group of commissioners on promoting equality, secondly, whether the commission agrees to appoint a commissioner who will have gender equality as the main issue in his/her portfolio and also there are no council representatives here; we have asked the council to ask the member states to submit a list of three candidates for commissioners representing both sexes, in order to achieve a gender balanced composition of the new commission. the commission has already submitted this proposal to the assembly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, it is my honour to present the very important report on the situation of women belonging to minority groups in the european union on behalf of the rapporteur, mrs elena valenciano, who is unable to be present at today's sitting. the report refers to three minority groups: women with disabilities, women immigrants and roma women, and focuses on the problem of the veil of silence covering their situation. these women remain in the shadows, hiding behind the male members of their group. in order to make the analysis more accurate, the rapporteur proposes various actions for the minority groups mentioned in the report, such as the development of statistics and the carrying out of a specific study, the participation of these women in decision-making processes, access to information, training and education, the protection of their sexual and reproductive health. the rapporteur thanks the organisations of these three minorities for their support to women and for the good cooperation they have had in the preparation of this report. firstly, as regards women with disabilities, there are 44 600 000 people with disabilities in the european union, representing 15.7% of european citizens and expected to increase to 25% with the enlargement of the european union. it is estimated that women account for 51% of the total disabled population. however, there is evidence that this percentage may increase by 2015, to 53% and possibly 58%. compared to 55% of able-bodied women workers, only 25% of women with disabilities are employed. the jobs they do are usually low-level, poorly paid and with fewer benefits than those enjoyed by men with disabilities. the problem is that there is no vocational guidance designed to meet the specific needs of women with disabilities. violence is not just a common phenomenon in the lives of these women, but in many cases it is the very cause of their disability. it is estimated that violence is the leading cause of death and disability worldwide for women between the ages of 16 and 45, over cancer, road accidents, and even war. secondly, as regards migrant women, according to the un's overall figures, since 1990 (unfortunately we do not have any more recent figures) there are 12 million migrant women in europe. this number is certainly still increasing, although precise figures are not available. poverty and social instability are central factors in women's lives. difficulties in accessing the labour market as a result of cultural and language barriers, lack of recognition of their professional qualifications, stereotypes and prejudices, racism and indifference to their rights restrict migrant women to the lower levels of the labour market or the black economy or make them dependent on men for their survival. many of these women remain at home and work as housewives and cleaners, clinging to the traditional female role, resulting in social isolation and lack of access to basic social infrastructure, but also marginalization in the process of social mobility, a situation that has ripple effects of social exclusion. closing borders and restrictions on immigration increase the role and profits of informal and mafia-like networks involved in human trafficking. in the case of female victims of trafficking in human beings, mainly for the purpose of sexual exploitation, the issue of temporary residence permits should be encouraged. as regards roma women, there are an estimated 8 to 10 million roma in europe, although the traditionally nomadic nature of this people makes the available data unreliable. so we have to look at these figures very carefully. the census puts roma women at 51%, a proportion that corresponds to the general proportion of women. there is a high birth rate among these populations, as well as high infant and adult mortality rates. women usually marry very young and have their first child earlier than in other ethnic groups. life expectancy is 13 to 17 years shorter for roma (men and women) compared to the rest of the population. the high birth rates combined with the high mortality rates form an extremely young roma population. 80% are under 34 years of age, while 43% are under 14 years of age. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the rapporteur. madam president, this report is the last stage in an important process, a process which began with the report by my dear colleague and friend, jo leinen, a process which reached its peak during the greek presidency, when the presidency and the council, after exchanging views with parliament, finally adopted regulation 2003/2004, which substantially improves the status and standing of european political parties in the european arena. i do not think anyone would disagree with the view that we must do everything possible to ensure that the european political parties, an institution which complements and completes the framework of european democracy, can function properly and promptly. in this context, the report which i am presenting to the house, asking for its support, constitutes a system, a process, which will guarantee european political parties the means by which they can achieve their objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament is the most important institution in the european union, and it is the only institution in the union that has the power to make decisions. it also takes account of the balance of power and the balance of power within parliament. firstly, the european political parties and their funding, that is to say the provision of the means they need, depends primarily on the bureau of the european parliament, the institution within the european parliament which is responsible for all matters relating to the smooth functioning of the political forces which are active and associated with it. but at the same time the bureau is very pleased to have two more institutions of the european parliament in its efforts to fulfil properly the role assigned to it in relation to european political parties. the first is the conference of presidents of the political groups, which is the most political institution in the european parliament, and the second is the committee on constitutional affairs, the committee of the european parliament responsible for all matters relating to constitutional, constitutional and legal matters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in conclusion, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and by asking the house to vote on my report tomorrow, i take full political responsibility for this recommendation. we have made a very great effort and i would like to thank all my colleagues in all the political groups for their advice and support during the debate on this report in the committee on constitutional affairs. i am therefore grateful to everyone, including you, madam president, and i ask the house to approve this report.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0118/2004) by mrs medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the communication from the commission on a better and simpler regulatory framework (com (2001) 726 - c5-0108/2002 - 2002/2052 (cos)).
mr president, we know that mr medina ortega has a great deal of experience in this area and that his proposals to date have greatly helped the task of simplifying and modernising the community's legislative work. we have the interinstitutional agreement and the commissioner has spoken about it. but i would like to ask the question: despite what we have today, can we say that we have a simple action programme with a specific hierarchy of objectives, a specific timetable, a proposal for specific instruments for each objective and a clear procedure for measuring objectives? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. i do not think we should respond positively because there are no reasonable measures. in any case, and here i fully agree with mr medina, improving the regulatory environment means limiting the role of the bureaucracy, for which the commission is responsible. it also means rejecting the notion that efficiency or improvement is linked to a reduction in democratic control. the commission has not yet taken a clear position on these two points. i would also like to stress that we as the european parliament have a big problem. here we have to combine 15 cultures, and tomorrow 25, states and, of course, this freedom of suggestion coming from all over. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the big problem, however, remains the fourth phase in the whole regulatory framework, which is implementation. unfortunately, even today, after so many reports on the application of the law, there is a long delay in the commission's control of the way in which it is applied and the judicial and administrative authorities have no mechanisms for assimilating and have not assimilated community law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. - (el) we are voting against the dimitrakopoulos report because it completes the procedures for promoting the main idea behind the statute of european parties and their financing, that is to say, the promotion of bodies and mechanisms which 'create a european consciousness' and which foster the view that capitalist anti-people policies are the only way forward. no other opinion may be expressed. steps are taken to silence opponents of the system. rights are abolished, such as freedom of speech and the right to form political parties. on the basis of community requirements and the decisions of capital, the european parliament is made the judge of the 'political correctness' of these parties. the majority will decide whether the minorities are entitled to exist or, at any rate, to put forward their ideas and whether or not funds should be allocated to them. the amendments tabled by mr dimitrakopoulos are moving in a more conservative direction. while the more easily controlled bureau of the european parliament is given too much power, the european parliament itself is given the right to decide only by a "majority of the votes cast" (not even by an absolute majority of its members) whether a party respects the principles of the eu or not, that is, whether it fits into the eu's broad framework and its system. we shall vote against this report because it transforms the european parliament from being a meeting place for different ideas into a judge of the right of ideas to exist.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i agree - i must say this quite frankly - with your opinion that spain was punished, not because in 1998 there was a reform. the maximum quantities were agreed and spain gave its consent at the time. so you can't say that spain was punished. i also have to tell you this: what you are ultimately asking for is nothing more than an extra 100 million euros to be spent on promoting the spanish sector, and exclusively for the spanish sector. we have a problem here, because i cannot at the same time meet the stated objective of making the matter budget-neutral and at the same time come to you and say: an additional hundred million euros must come from somewhere. that extra hundred million doesn't exist.
mr president, the 1998 revision in spain and greece created serious problems, particularly with the 419 000 tonnes quota, when it was known, on the basis of data from the agricultural directorates, that production in greece reached 600 000 tonnes and more. the 419 000 tonnes quota has created serious problems for small oil producers. because the ministry of agriculture in its attempt to deal with this issue reduced production, we had these results, and it is known that in greece we had continuous mobilizations because the oil producers were being unfairly treated with this small quota. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not disrupted.
the commission's mandate in its proposal for a regulation on mediterranean products, despite attempts to embellish and embellish the situation, is categorical and firm: the disappearance of tobacco cultivation, the reduction of cotton cultivation and the abandonment of olive oil cultivation. unfortunately, the european parliament's report, despite some improvements in the wording, was also written entirely in the spirit of the commission's proposal, which should not even be the basis for a debate in the european parliament. it should and must be rejected in its entirety, because it is far worse than the present situation. the gradual disconnection of subsidies from agricultural production and their conversion into social welfare benefits completely subordinate small and medium-sized farmers to the interests of big capital and the multinational food industry, which will also take advantage of the wto agreements to buy agricultural products at humiliating prices. what is clear is that small and mediumsized farmers will receive much less money in compensation for the elimination of basic crops such as tobacco, cotton and oil. a significant proportion of the subsidies will be transferred to the second pillar, with the main recipients being large business capital, in which small and mediumsized farmers will also make some salaries as service staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not only harmful to the environment but also to the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we call for them to be voted down and withdrawn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if they don't withdraw, they'll meet the fighter... (speaker interrupted by the president)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the proposals in the lavarra report do not mention at all the negative changes that the mid-term review is seeking to bring about also for olive oil, since, as it says, it regards it as a fait accompli, after which only certain aspects of the olive oil market remain to be regulated. that is why all his amendments, almost all of which are positive (such as the abolition of the existing mixtures of olive oil and other fatty substances), are limited to this. we fundamentally disagree with the idea that the mid-term reform of olive oil is definitive and with the content of the reform, i.e. the decoupling of a substantial part of the aid from production, the freezing of olive production at the level of 1 may 1998, the reduction of community funds for olive oil, etc. the commission proposal should not even be the subject of a debate in the european parliament and should be rejected in its entirety, as it creates a situation far worse than the present one, which is by no means satisfactory for the olive growers. we have voted against the report, despite the positive aspects, because it takes the mid-term reform of olive oil for granted. the committee calls on olive growers to fight for the reform not to be implemented in practice, for the removal of the ceilings on olive production and for the payment of aid to actual production, so that olive growers are no longer the object of ridicule and ridicule.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. any calls for equality for women and attempts to blame the poor results are overridden by praise of eu policies and positive criticism of the decisions of the lisbon and barcelona summits. the harsh reality facing european women (high unemployment, few, low-paid and flexible jobs, harassment at work, lack of social support for the family, raising the retirement age, wage discrimination, etc.) is the result of the eu's strategic choices, which were significantly set in motion by the lisbon and barcelona meetings. the proposals to appoint women commissioners, to create a special portfolio in the commission for women's rights, to have equal representation of women on the ballot for elections to the european parliament and to set up a european institute for gender equality, etc., show how far away the temporary residents of brussels are from the real problems and concerns of working women. how can a woman who is part-time, part-paid and part-retired - the model which the promoters of texts for which they work, or at least accept - be able to participate fully in social and political life? for these reasons, the kke members of the european parliament have neither voted for nor against.
mr president, the report by the committee on foreign affairs on the guantanamo detainees rightly points to the violation of international law and human rights. indeed, these people, victims of imperialist expansionism in the form of the 'war on terror', are not only not treated as prisoners of war, but are subjected to torture and all kinds of humiliation. this is the culture of those who present themselves as the bearers of culture and who want to give lessons in democracy throughout the world. however, the report accepts the core of imperialist policy and the american view of terrorism, justifies the attack on afghanistan, does not condemn the arrests and illegal detentions, but limits itself to demanding a fair trial of the detainees. for these reasons, the meps of the communist party of greece abstained from the vote and we call for the immediate release of all prisoners and for compensation for what they have suffered.
i'm the editor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. when we came in the summer of 1999 to take up our new post, we came with the helsinki decision, which marked the unification of the accession process of the new countries, the single wave. today, as we approach the end of our mandate, this cycle is coming to a successful close, and this is something very serious and important for the whole of europe. the two months left are a short time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this sense, i, as rapporteur for lithuania, wish to confirm the important positive work that has been produced in this country and has promoted it so that in two months it will be able to become a full member of the european union with equal rights. there are problems, as in all new countries. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what are we supposed to do? we must support this effort, we must support environmental issues, we must support the strengthening of transeuropean networks in the field of energy and in the field of transport, so that these countries can be more fully integrated into european structures. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and whether he is prepared to accept them. it closes that circle and it closes in a great way. i hope, on the basis of what the commissioner has told us earlier, that the european union's position on this matter will be firm, so that when cyprus becomes a member of the european union and the cyprus problem is resolved, which we hope will be resolved, the acquis communautaire can be applied 100% to all policies in the whole of the reunified cyprus. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, the accession of 10 new countries to the european union means mutual recognition, as the rapporteur, mr brok, has pointed out, that beyond the traditional national interest there is a general european interest, which should be regarded by each country as part of its national interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report also shows that the whole process of accession has accelerated the progress of these countries by reforming their economic, administrative and political environment, and this is a great benefit for their peoples. in particular, i would like to express the satisfaction of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights at the fact that these countries have aligned themselves with the acquis communautaire in the areas of company law, accounting rules, customs law, capital movements and, in general, for the remarkable results they have achieved as a whole in the field of transposition of legislation into their national law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it therefore stressed the need to send a clear message that the great prospects open to these peoples are interlinked with their obligations to apply community legislation. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. mr president, i shall now refer to the main points of my report as adopted. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it calls for the removal of its flag from the paris list to remain a priority for it. it regrets that chapter 21 on regional policy and coordination of the structural funds has not yet been completed. it called for effective structures to be set up to prevent, detect and possibly punish fraud and corruption, particularly in the phare and ispa programmes. it also calls for greater coordination and cooperation between ministries, with relevant services and with other interested parties. it considers that immediate efforts are needed to promote effective cooperation and communication, particularly between central and regional levels, an area where we believe there is a problem, and to consolidate and complete institutional structures, both at central and regional levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. – mr president, as we are only a matter of weeks away from enlargement it is most welcome for parliament to be sending a strong signal that it wants the internal market to be strengthened to serve effectively the interests and aspirations of more than 450 million european citizens and well over 20 million companies. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr miller, and his colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for all their hard work in raising the profile of the internal market over the last few years. indeed, they can claim credit for some of the measures in the commission's internal market strategy, as these were originally their ideas. the internal market is one of europe's finest achievements. since 1993 it has helped to create more than 2.5 million extra jobs and has added nearly eur 900 billion, cumulatively, to our collective prosperity. there is much more to come! there are still major gaps in the legal framework, such as on services and taxation. furthermore, in a union of 25 member states or more, we need to strengthen the foundations on which the internal market is built. the internal market strategy 2003-2006 sets out exactly what needs to be done by whom and by when. it is a ten-point plan for making europe better off. there is no time now to go into all the details of parliament's reports or, indeed, of the internal market strategy. therefore, i will focus on a few key issues. i welcome parliament's support for strengthening the mutual recognition principle. i know that views differ on where the balance needs to be struck between mutual recognition and harmonisation. the benefits of mutual recognition are that it respects national traditions and avoids further regulation at the level of the european union. we all know that negotiating harmonising directives will be no sinecure with 25 member states around the table. therefore, if we can avoid more legislation, so much the better. the point, however, is not to impose mutual recognition at all costs. by getting member states to notify cases where mutual recognition cannot be relied upon we shall be much better placed to propose a targeted solution which does not go beyond what is necessary to kick-start free movement again. i share parliament's concern over the slow implementation of internal market directives. late transposition creates legal insecurity and can cause significant harm to businesses and citizens from other member states. it is difficult to understand why member states that fulfil their obligations do not hold to task other member states that are consistently late in doing so. the commission, of course, takes immediate legal action where member states fail to transpose on time. nor do we shy away from hanging member states' dirty linen out to dry. public embarrassment often has more impact than a pile of infringement proceedings in the post. late transposition, however, is only a symptom of a larger problem. the bottom line is that we shall not have a fully functioning internal market as long as member states treat the internal market like a rented car that they do not need to wash or maintain. i am therefore attracted by parliament's suggestion that member states should establish internal market offices that would be responsible for good internal market behaviour and to which people could apply if they have a problem. we shall certainly pursue this line of thinking.
mr president, the main virtue of mr miller's report is that it seeks a global approach. the market strategy is therefore rightly considered to be one of the three instruments for promoting the lisbon and gothenburg objectives, together with the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines. the proper functioning of the market therefore requires acceptance of this basic policy objective. the lisbon strategy has failed to produce the results we expected, and that is because of the ambiguities about its actual content. we believe that the same way as the competitiveness of the market is proposed, the social dimension of the strategy for it should be considered without fear. competitiveness, in the sense of 'quality competitiveness' rather than 'competitiveness based on a continuous reduction in labour costs', will thus be transformed from a predominant value for economic relations into a general value for the whole of social relations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. if this strategic objective is accepted unreservedly, we can more effectively solve the individual problems of the dysfunction of the internal market. the first concern is to convince the member states that the internal market cannot function without further harmonization of their legislation, including the removal of tax barriers, and without increased responsibility for the prompt and unbiased implementation of the agreed rules. the current system of monitoring the application of community rules has failed and needs a radical overhaul. the second concern is to deal with the phenomena of exploitation of the internal market by only a part of enterprises and the working population. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one. so first of all we have to look at what is it that makes the ordinary citizen resist the internal market and how to link its future to the vision of europe.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the construction of the new railway line. the commission's programme for transeuropean networks, however, does not meet the real needs of development for the benefit of workers and the most deprived, the need to raise living standards and the need for easier communication between peoples. on the contrary, it is tying up considerable national resources - in some countries almost all public investment - to projects chosen by big capital, whose only criteria are its own needs, greater profits and the consolidation of its position. the priority projects and areas are those which ensure that private capital can participate in them and then exploit them, whereas these infrastructures should be the property of the people and be designed to meet the needs of the people. there are projects which are not combined with productive activities, projects which are harmful to the environment and projects which contribute little or nothing to the local community. we are opposed to any form of participation by private capital and even more so to the exploitation of projects by private capital. we believe that the workers should demand that infrastructure projects be public, that they should set their own priorities and demand public investment with community participation across the board.
in writing. - (el) there is panic in brussels because the goal set four years ago in lisbon of making the eu the most competitive economy in the world (to the benefit of eu monopolies) is far from being achieved. the council, meeting on 25 and 26 march, is called upon to take even more anti-people measures to regain the ground lost as a result of the reactions and demonstrations of the population. the commission's proposals as a whole, but also for each country, are revealing. for example, greece is accused of not yet putting the elderly to work, not having made fundamental changes to the pension system, not having reduced employers' contributions to pension funds, not having made employment contracts sufficiently flexible, not having sufficiently promoted parttime employment and not having completed privatisations. the national collective agreement is also targeted because it hampers employers who would prefer local employment agreements or individual agreements. these provocative demands must be met by the greek and other governments, and we have no doubt that they will be happy to do so, as they have been for so many years. but there is also the other pole, the workers' movement and the popular movement in general, which has the power to overthrow these plans if it stands together and fights.
in the case of the applicant countries, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession countries are able to comply with the accession criteria. in reality, the issue is the integration of these countries into the european union, and that is why the members of the kke in the european parliament will vote against the report, which has every reason to be pleased with the 'progress' which has allegedly been made in these countries. the people have every reason to be concerned. the public enterprises and their wealth sold cheaply to big capital, the abolition of all socialist land and property, the limitation of their sovereign rights, etc. are the price that the people of the candidate countries are paying and will continue to pay. the report is full of hypocrisy in terms of human rights. there is no mention of the lack of political rights of the russian minority in the baltic states, of the persecution and banning of the communist parties, their leaders and their symbols. the eu does not consider this to be a violation of human rights, as its leaders have repeatedly and provocatively stated. in particular, as regards cyprus, we wonder what the reference to the forthcoming inclusion of only greek cypriots is supposed to mean. and why is there pressure to obtain more concessions from the greek cypriot side when everyone knows that denktash is responsible for the failure of the negotiations? we are convinced that the cypriot people will fight for a just and lasting solution.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the completion of the internal market is a key objective for capital, to secure the greatest possible privileges, to put pressure on small and mediumsized enterprises and to make more efficient use of labour. the expansion of markets is accompanied by the invasion of public services by private capital and the selling off of the property of the people. unrestrained privatisation, which is an integral part of the single market, affects the most vital sectors and transforms all social goods into commodities. the miller report welcomes the commission's proposal for the privatisation of public undertakings. it is raising the flag of competition and the four freedoms that fit into the embrace of capital. the opening up of the market for supply networks under the pretext of 'benefits' for consumers even extends to water supply. in the name of profit, the fact that water is a typical social good that no one can deprive of is completely ignored. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the only thing we need is the privatization of the air we breathe! we believe that workers should set their own priorities and fight against the decisions of capital, and we fight with them and the working class for new gains that meet the needs of the present.
mr president, the people of venezuela have taken the power of the country into their own hands and have elected mr chavez as president. the united states and the local plutocracy did not seem to like this, nor did the european union, which is silent and tolerant. they even staged a coup to overthrow president chavez and his government, but they failed thanks to the decisive intervention of the venezuelan people themselves. a new attack is unfolding at this time. the opposition made a great effort to collect signatures and i wonder why the question was raised why it did not succeed, since it turned out that most of the signatures were forged; and now the opposition is screaming that they've been discriminated against! mr president, the time when imperialists imposed dictatorships everywhere is over. the people of venezuela, colombia, ecuador, bolivia, brazil, argentina, uruguay, all of latin america are intensifying their struggle for democracy and social change. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, i wish to denounce the arrest by the colombian armed forces of rubiel vargas, a member of the executive committee of the communist youth of colombia and a correspondent for the independent news agency ancol. this arrest came two months after the arrest of gabriel becerra, on january 23, general secretary of the communist youth and representative of the social and political front of colombia. on 18 february, luz perly córdoba, a trade unionist from the rural movement campesina de arauca, was arrested, while on 6 february, communist maría lucero henao was assassinated, along with her husband, by military officers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it shows how hypocritical president uribe was when he spoke of national reconciliation a few weeks ago at the formal reception you and the few colleagues in the chamber gave him.
mr president, i would like to draw the house's attention to a very strange and preposterous statement made last week by the rector of the university of istanbul. apparently – though i saw him saying these things on television – he said that turkey has no reason to make any concessions to the eu over cyprus and that it is easy for turkey to resolve this matter by sacrificing 135 000 – he has even counted the number – of its soldiers in order to occupy both cyprus and greece. he made these preposterous statements to the great applause of his audience, which again, as it so happened, i observed on television. i am not saying that this incriminates the turkish government or that it incriminates the majority of turkish public opinion, but if there is a section of public opinion which expresses itself in this way in turkey, then we have to be more cautious in accepting turkey and indeed cooperate with progressive forces in the country in order to bring about a real change of mind, without which there can be no real fusion between turkey and the european union.
mr president, the greek government's invitation to nato to take over the security of the olympic games has provoked strong reactions from a wide political spectrum in greece. it is not only an insult to the olympic spirit of peace, since nato is a terrorist war organization, but also a challenge to the peaceful, anti-war sentiments of the greek people, as they have been and are being manifested daily in greece. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is certain that both the measures to restrict and suppress democratic freedoms and rights and the deep penetration of nato into the public and private life of greece will not end with the end of the olympic games but will continue, will become a permanent regime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olympic games are held in a safe and secure manner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olympic games are not cancelled. mr president, in interpreting the peace-loving and anti-imperialist sentiments of the greek people, we denounce this situation and call on all those in this chamber who still care, even if only in the most elementary way, about democracy to demand that nato not interfere in the olympic games.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, both the directive on the harmonisation of transparency requirements and the directive on financial services bring us today to the end of a difficult process, which has required enormous effort in the financial services sector, particularly on the part of the rapporteur, mrs villiers, on a subject with great technical and political difficulties, and without her tremendous work, i doubt whether we could have reached a conclusion. i would therefore like to congratulate her on all her efforts. the fact that we are reaching some definite conclusions today is an achievement of parliament and the economic committee and proves that legislative delays, when they occur, are not due to parliamentary austerity. the aim of the investment services directive, on which i would like to speak more as shadow rapporteur, is to reinvigorate the european passport for financial firms. the european passport is of course not a new institution, but it had been in existence for some time because of the difficulties created by the differences in the internal legislation of the member states in the cross-border activity of companies and, by extension, of course, in the free movement of capital in europe. the new directive proposes measures to ensure uniform and harmonised protection of investors, in particular small investors, in the various member states. it also proposes a level playing field between stock exchanges and investment companies. this is one of the most complex and thorny issues we have faced, because here we are faced with new phenomena in the market, so that entire stock exchanges are being turned into private companies and entire private companies are functioning as mini-exchanges in a way and within them they are settling a huge number of transactions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of products for human consumption is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the socialist group supports the agreement reached in the council on the investment services directive and, of course, supports the report on the harmonization of transparency requirements in financial services.
the commission. i would like to make a comment on mr titford first. this is not a tempus phase project, but a tempus project. my colleague, who is responsible for enlargement, asked me to clarify this. firstly, i would like to say the following about the question or the statements made by mrs stauner, too, that eur 1.8 billion was lost in 2002. that is a conclusion you simply cannot draw from the figures in the 280 report. the member states are obliged to report irregularities in the structural funds, the agricultural funds and the own resources. irregularities are defined as a breach of a regulation of a european nature. this may be an irregularity of a financial nature, but it may also be, for example, that an environmental regulation has been violated. so there is no financial loss at all. these reports must be made for the project as a whole. it is therefore by no means possible to conclude that this project as a whole is somehow equivalent to fraud. but if there is a financial irregularity, then there must be a recovery, and it must be made directly by the member states. so the amounts you mentioned are to be deducted from at least the recoveries. if you have a subsidy budget, of course, it would be a complete delusion to think that you could reduce fraud to zero. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, it is annoying when reports are delayed or only partially reported. you are right, mr bösch, if there is a country with a report of zero, it is not exactly an indicator that everything is going well there, but it is an indicator that no checks are being carried out. even in those member states which may sometimes boast of good control, it is often found that this is not the case. look at the court of auditors report from 2000. unfortunately , it 's like this: in the country we come from, which we both know best, there are payment institutions with the highest error rate, including one in your home country of bavaria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a recall if necessary. we must be as consistent as possible in saying that the funds must be collected. 'zero tolerance', mrs stauner, is not to say that we no longer carry out checks, but to draw the appropriate consequences if something is found. mr van dam, i should like to say briefly the following about your remarks: the directorate-general for budget is not the directorate-general for financial control. i'll say it again. we have now decentralized financial control, and in all their home countries it is the same, namely that the ministry responsible for a particular programme is always responsible for control and for the correct implementation, and cannot hide behind another directorate-general. that was the mistake in the past. the internal audit service is an independent service and i believe that it has indeed demonstrated this during the years in which mr muis was in charge of the internal audit service. i would like to return to the subject of live transport, export subsidies and exports of live cattle. it's just that this is allowed. the council decision also provides for subsidies to live exports, albeit at a lower level than in the past. i cannot therefore say that the fact that live cattle are exported is fraudulent. it's legal. i share your concern to ask in this area: what is ethically acceptable from the point of view of animal welfare? i mentioned that the commission has tightened up the rules, and we have seen this in the case of egypt. if the european union then stops exporting, if these transports are instead made from australia, then nothing is gained in terms of animal welfare. it is therefore important to act in the interests of animal welfare, not only internally, but also to find allies. i take note of your critical remarks in this area and will pass them on to my colleague mr fischler, and i will ask him to provide you with further information if you wish. i shall certainly teach him the critical tenor on this subject in this house.
- thank you, lieutenant. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (α5-0160/2004) by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of gender equality in development cooperation (5402/1/2004 - c5-0093/2004 - 2003/0176 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs zrihen).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (α5-0196/2004) by the committee on employment and social affairs, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) (18th individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec) (13599/1/2003 - c5-0016/2004 - 1992/0449 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr pérez álvarez).
- commissioner dimas has the floor. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome you to the european parliament, mr commissioner, to congratulate you on your new post and to wish you good luck in your work.
mr president, today and in the coming days, dozens of farmers from carditza, trikala, larissa, magnesia and other parts of greece will be sitting in the dock of the court, accused of participating in farmers' demonstrations, which were intended to counter the all-out attack on them by the common agricultural policy and not to be evicted, but to remain in their fields and villages. the previous government, in response to the just demands of the farmers, responded with hundreds of farm courts set up across the country, sentencing the farmers to bend their fighting spirit. governments change, but the agricultural courts remain. the criminalisation of rural struggles seeks to intimidate the activists of the poor and middle peasantry so that they stop fighting to overturn this policy, which has caused so much suffering to mediterranean products, to their incomes, and has led to the desertification of the countryside. the new greek government, which as an official opposition party said it disagreed with these prosecutions, is silent as a new pontius pilate. we condemn the ongoing pogrom against the peasant activists and demand its immediate end. it is certain that no trial and no conviction will bend their fighting spirit. the poor farmers will fight to stay in their villages and their fields, to continue their productive activity, because it is a matter of life for themselves and their families.
mr president, ten years after the rabin-arafat agreements, if any neutral observer wants to take stock of the blair-gaddafi compliments, he will say that a miracle has happened. but going further east, it means we have a bigger tragedy. what 's the balance ? clearly the balance today is worse than it was a decade ago. there were events and policy choices. when the killing of persons was raised by various quarters as an official governmental doctrine, we did not react. when the new wall of shame began to be built, we again did not react. a peculiar peculiarity distinguishes the form of our policy. i know. we're the biggest funder in the region, but funding someone without getting involved politically is like putting water in a hollow pitcher, a hollow jug that can't hold water. what are we gonna do now ? we must clearly take the initiative. in a few days' time, as is customary, the presidency will meet with the president of the united states of america to put forward urgently the question of a common approach to this question. it would be better if this meeting were to take place in brussels. we are also talking about the euro-mediterranean conference and we all welcome the meeting in athens at parliamentary level. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. it would be good, for example, to have a special office in the region, based in cyprus, which takes account of all the stimuli and takes appropriate initiatives. politics is not neutral. politics means initiative, active action, proposals, results. and if the european union wants to show its own capacity, and this for its own sake, it is the region which has matured enough to have the general acceptance of humanity if it contributes positively to the solution of the palestinian problem, which is the apex of a wider problem, but if it is solved at the top, it will be solved at the bottom as well.
in writing. the murder by israel of the spiritual leader of hamas confirms once again the murderous and terrorist nature of the policy pursued by the sharon government to subjugate the heroic palestinian people. it adds to a host of similar killings that some justify in the name of protection against terrorism. the sharon government would not dare commit crimes if it did not have the direct support and encouragement of the united states. the eu, for its part, continues its policy of tolerance and support for israel, which equates perpetrators with victims. the brussels summit confined itself to expressing its opposition to 'judicial executions' (as it calls the murders), while 'recognising israel's right to protect its citizens from terrorist acts'. the kke has repeatedly expressed its solidarity with the heroic palestinian people and its support for their just struggle, its absolute condemnation of israel's policy of genocide, its sorrow for the loss of life and its conviction that the occupation of palestinian lands is the source of all violence. it also expresses its support for israel's peacekeeping forces and for those who refuse to serve in the army and the occupied territories. there will be no peace in the region unless the people of palestine have a homeland.
- at the end of the debate i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see the minutes. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the written declaration (article 120)
in writing. the recent events in kosovo have brought the ethnic cleansing to a conclusion, with the expulsion of the last serbs and gypsies and the confiscation of their property. the separation from serbia and the creation of an independent state, as the separatist organisations of kosovo albanians have always sought, is promoted, with the guarantee of purity of the albanian language. the moral and principal physical perpetrator of this crime against hundreds of thousands of serbs and gypsies is nato, but also the eu, which agreed to the intervention and the bombings. the international naval force deployed in kosovo to implement security council resolution 1441, instead of disarming the kla criminal gangs as it should have done, declared them the "kosovo protection corps". the current situation in kosovo, but also the tragedy of yugoslavia in general, highlights the magnitude of the crime committed in the 1990s against the yugoslav people and the hypocrisy of the human rights declarations of the raiders by the popular government of president milosevic when they intervened, preventing it from maintaining order and protecting the inhabitants of kosovo (of all nationalities) from the actions of the uçk. the kke meps condemn those responsible for this tragedy and express our solidarity with the yugoslav people's struggle to drive out the attackers.
- the next item is the report (a5-0133/2004) by mr keppelhoff, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on feed hygiene requirements.
commission. mr president, may i again thank the rapporteur, mrs keppelhoff-wiechert, and all of those involved in taking this important dossier forward. based on the excellent work done and the informal trialogue between parliament, council and commission, there is, i hope, sufficient agreement between the three institutions to reach resolution in first reading. i understand the view expressed in the house in favour of financial guarantees. however, i have also to take into account the view of the council, where there is a qualified majority in favour of deleting the provision on guarantees. it is clear to me that if first reading agreement is to be reached, this house will need to support the amendment to delete the guarantees in line with the compromise proposed. the commission could then come forward with a report on all aspects of the situation. this would enable full consultation of all economic actors and stakeholders. i have to say that a very persuasive factor is the fact that the insurance industry across the community, including the enlarged community, is not ready for mandatory financial guarantees across the board. there is little point in legislating if we cannot be assured of effective compliance. so i would strongly urge the house to support the amendment in relation to guarantees; otherwise a golden opportunity for first reading agreement will be lost. based on the compromise reached, i understand that the rapporteur has tabled amendments which the commission can accept and thereby facilitate closure in first reading. finally, i would like to state that a full listing of the commission's position on the amendments is being provided to parliament. i trust that this will be included in the verbatim report of proceedings of this part-session commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex..
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0147/2004) by mr thors, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to thank parliament for its response to the commission's communication on a european strategy for the environment and health. i would like to thank in particular the two rapporteurs, first frédérique ries and then marit paulsen, for their work, and i can certainly extend this to the whole period that marit paulsen has been in the european parliament and the remarkably good work she has done in this particular area. environment and health are issues that concern us all. according to the latest eurobarometer surveys, 89% of europeans are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health. nearly 10 percent report having a close relative or family member who suffers from an environmental illness. our knowledge of what in the environment actually causes certain health effects is still quite limited. disease is caused by many factors, often interacting. how much the environment contributes to the diseases we do not know with absolute certainty today. one of the main objectives of this strategy is to increase our knowledge and thus to provide a better basis for tackling the problems. the idea is to bring together environment, health and research to better understand and thereby tackle more effectively the complex relationship between environment and health. i do not want to underestimate that this is also a challenge, because in our traditional roles we are not always used to working horizontally across the traditional boundaries between different research disciplines and policy areas. we are currently working on an action plan for the period 2004 to 2010. we will present it at the meeting of environment and health ministers in budapest in june 2004, which is a pan-european meeting. the preparation of this action plan has involved experts and stakeholders from across the enlarged eu. we have had regional conferences in warsaw, rome and brussels, where many of the issues raised by parliament in its report have been discussed. it is important to remember that the strategy is long-term. our knowledge of the role of the environment in various health problems will not be complete immediately. expresses concern that the strategy focuses only on information gathering and research; in a sense, yes, but we need this information to know how best to direct our efforts. that doesn't mean we're going to sit idly by. in some areas we cannot risk waiting until we have full knowledge, but then we will act on the precautionary principle, and we will. for the first phase, covering the period 2004-2010, we have selected a number of diseases and priority topics to be addressed in particular: respiratory diseases in children, asthma and allergies, neurodevelopmental disorders, childhood cancers, endocrine disrupting effects or endocrine disrupting effects. it is clear that children are a priority target group and are also the most exposed to environmental risks, so we have put them at the centre of our strategy. the selected substances are heavy metals, dioxins, pcbs and endocrine disruptors. based on these diseases and substances, we want to build a programme that can provide us with the necessary information on how the environment affects our health. we hope that we can then extend it to other environmental threats and linked diseases. in the report, parliament points to the risk of duplication of work, that we should not take into account existing research results or work carried out, for example, by the world health organisation. we are very aware of this risk and the coordination of information from different areas is one of our most important tasks. i would like to emphasize that from the very beginning of the work on this environmental and health strategy we have cooperated with and sought the views of the world health organization. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament once again for its support on this very important issue which, i assume, is close to the hearts of all of us. together with comments from other institutions and from interest groups, this report, and not least the work of marit paulsen, will help us to develop an effective and good action plan. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the link between the environment and health was a request from parliament, based in particular on the requirements of the treaties, articles 152 and 174. i would remind you that in 1996 the formulation of the protection of public health as a separate theme in the then-forming fifth environment and sustainable development programme was my proposal which was accepted by all the institutions. for the first time, the european union was attempting to collect and disseminate information and knowledge on the effects of the state of the environment on human health. today, the sixth environment programme includes this specific theme, namely environment - health - quality of life, while the first community action programme in the field of public health, which we adopted in 2002 and for which i had the honour of being rapporteur, contains the promotion of the recording, analysis and evaluation of the determinants of health linked to the environment. this knowledge will obviously lead to the adoption and promotion of appropriate strategies and measures to protect human health from the adverse effects of a degraded and dangerous environment. it should be noted, however, that the union has been reluctant to take environmental health into account up to now, and therefore the present proposal for a strategy on environment and health can only be welcomed as a positive step reflecting the european union's willingness to take action in this area, because the environmental risks to health are now high and require a modern and integrated approach. emphasis should be placed on reducing environmental risks that affect human health or cause disease, and this at great economic and social cost. of course, special attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups of the population, children, the elderly, pregnant women, and people with a serious medical history. the action programme proposes measures to improve air quality in the living and working environment, studies to address the most serious emissions and exposure, special attention to populations living near sources of pollution and a reinforced preventive policy focused on intensifying environmental monitoring of carcinogens, reproductive and nervous system toxicants. it also stressed the importance of environmental education in order to take initiatives to raise public awareness of the need for information. mr president, it is true that the environment, together with nutrition, is a major determinant of health and that the union's strategy in this field must therefore include the continuous collection and systematic monitoring of data linking environmental parameters to various diseases. only by continuously developing scientific knowledge and research on aspects of certain diseases with environmental parameters will we be able to develop effectively the union's strategy and take action to protect human health. this strategy will make it possible to further increase the life expectancy of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the commission communication on the european strategy for the environment and health is an ambitious step towards improving the quality of life of european citizens. there is now clear evidence that 20% of the total number of diseases in industrialized countries are related to environmental factors. most of these diseases affect children, women of reproductive age, the poor and vulnerable groups. in the fifteen member states 60 000 deaths each year are due to long-term exposure to particulate matter. 10% of children in western europe have asthma, ten times the rate of children in eastern europe, and this is due to the different environment. a 10% reduction in ozone is expected to cause 300 000 skin cancers and 4500 cases of melanoma annually worldwide. the community's action policies to date have concentrated on specific environmental and health-related factors, but the risks from the combination and interaction of the various pollutants in their entirety on the human body have never been assessed. i believe that the proposed strategy helps to provide a comprehensive understanding of the threats, how they affect human health and what action is required. the scale initiative, with its gradual and cyclical implementation, is based on scientific research to obtain the necessary information, focuses on children as the most vulnerable population group, increases awareness that environmental degradation is harmful to the health of all and in particular of children, uses the legal means provided by the treaty to take relevant action and, finally, provides for continuous and continuous evaluation of the effectiveness of actions. on behalf of my group, i would like to say that we support the commission's communication as it stands, but we will not support amendments which depart from the spirit of globality and concentrate on a few areas to the exclusion of others, which are equally important.
in writing. - (el) the the resolution recognises what the kke has also condemned, namely that the eu, which has appointed itself as the guardian of fundamental rights, allows a serious breach of privacy by transferring sensitive personal data from eu airlines to the us. it also points out that the commission and the national authorities acted unlawfully by failing to initiate legal proceedings to prevent the airlines from disclosing that information. the commission is also asked to withdraw the draft resolution it submitted a few months ago after negotiations with the united states, in which the eu actually complies with the united states' demands. however, the conclusions of the motion for a resolution do not propose a ban on any transfer of personal data, but rather assess the existence of a legislative gap and propose an agreement with the united states merely with less data and shorter data retention, and where the data subjects are given the right to have the data recorded rectified. for the immediate future, it is proposed that passengers should give their consent to the disclosure of 39 (!) pieces of information. any refusal to do so will, of course, mean that you will not be allowed to enter the united states. whatever the intentions of the authors, it is once again clear that the european parliament is accepting the terms of the united states as a second deputy sheriff. for these reasons, the kke members of the european parliament have neither voted for nor against.
the rapporteur. mr president, as is well known, croatia submitted on 21 february 2003 an application for accession to the european union, with all the formalities and responsibility required for such action, on which the commission will express its opinion in april. the european parliament, through my report, has prepared, in accordance with rule 49 (1), a proposal for a recommendation to the council on croatia's application for membership, which was voted in favour in the committee on foreign affairs. the report was carefully balanced and well documented, so that the european parliament's initiative to recommend to the council would be taken into account and represent the views and demands of all parties in an exemplary manner. i thank my colleagues for their help in this direction. in summary, the main points of this report, to which croatia should give due attention, are the following: first, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. the council also noted the progress made towards cooperation with the international criminal court and the outstanding issues, in particular the case of general kotovina before the court. secondly, the return of refugees and displaced persons. parliament attaches great importance to the fulfilment of this obligation, which it considers to be one of the main criteria for croatia's accession to the european union. it welcomes the election of minority mps to parliament, but expects more in ensuring all the conditions for the return of refugees and displaced persons, such as legal protection, housing, reconciliation and their smooth integration into croatian society, without discrimination and fear. thirdly, good neighbourly regional cooperation. good neighbourliness and regional cooperation are on the right track and the report stresses that this is a key prerequisite for the development of democracy in croatia itself, but also a model for ensuring peace, stability and economic development in the region as a whole. fourthly, the judicial system and the administrative infrastructure. the revision and adaptation of the judicial system in line with the european union's requirements is noted, but exemplary application and undoubted social acceptance in the interpretation of laws and the enhancement of the status of judges are expected. the modern administrative infrastructure is also a prerequisite for the proper management of community resources, among other things, and particular attention is needed to combat any instances of corruption and to provide citizens with a rapid service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. sixth, freedom of expression and independence of the media. freedom of expression and the independence of the media are essential conditions for the functioning of democracy and no interference by state bodies in the exercise of freedom of expression can be justified. seventh, the free market economy. it recognises croatia's progress in the functioning of the free market and points to croatia's successes in both annual gross national product growth in recent years and in reducing the level of inflation, which is around the european union average. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new government's determination to continue the previous government's efforts towards european orientation is welcomed and the new government's readiness to promote all the necessary reforms to enable croatia to move quickly towards the objective of european union accession, which it wishes, is particularly appreciated. we call on the house to vote in favour of this report, together with the amendment tabled by the socialist group, which i support. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the annual report on fundamental rights comes at a difficult time, marked by the recent terrorist attack in spain and the violation of the right to life of dozens of innocent people. the european council has unfortunately concentrated on the outward appearance rather than on the substance and causes of the new situation created by the war on democracy, as president pat cox called it. it is certain that the repressive measures being promoted not only fail to address the root of the evil, which is mainly the enormous inequalities and discriminations of the modern world, but threaten to erode fundamental freedoms and democratic rights, thus further strengthening the objectives of terrorism. so we're being led with mathematical precision into an orwellian situation where privacy will be nonexistent and privacy will be permanently under the scrutiny of big brother. terrorism is the excuse for the inflation of security spending and the transformation of modern democracies into authoritarian police states where every citizen is treated as a potential terrorist. and while all of this is happening on the front of terrorism, another horrific crime committed daily against thousands of women and children, in the form of modern day slavery, is at the very bottom of our political agenda. the european union is facing a serious threat to fundamental rights and democratic freedoms.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, draftsman of the opinion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. we would point out, however, that it is not enough to create specialised mechanisms at national level, but that they must also be strengthened with a strong legal regime and generous funding in order to promote equal treatment for men and women in practice and in everyday life. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against all forms of violence, including domestic violence, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against all forms of violence. it is also appalling that there are acts of violence by state security personnel against women who are predominantly from minority groups, such as kurdish women. the european union calls on turkey to take all necessary measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected and that the rights of men and women are protected. morals and tradition cannot be above the laws of the rule of law. at the same time, it needs to increase health care spending, which is unacceptably low, and thus impedes women's right to access health services. i would also point out that the participation and representation of women in democratic institutions is at unacceptably low levels, as is the participation of women in vocational training and employment. mrs smet spoke at length about it. finally, we call for the immediate release of former parliamentarian and sakharov prize laureate leyla zana, who has been imprisoned with three other parliamentarians since 1994 for purely political reasons. tomorrow in ankara will be the 13th hearing, a process that began about a year ago under pressure from the european union. today, on the occasion of this debate, we need to send a very strong message to turkey and call for the immediate release of leyla zana, as a small sign that turkey is finally moving towards europe. finally, mr commissioner, mr verheugen, as a greek, i would like to thank you warmly for your tireless efforts to achieve a just and lasting solution to the cyprus problem.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i have asked to speak now because the president of the european parliament and the conference of presidents have asked me to come to them now. it is difficult for me to be in the plenary and at the conference of presidents at the same time. i hope you'll understand that i have to make my final contribution and then accept the invitation of your president. four short remarks: first, the adoption of community law is the subject of accession negotiations, not the prerequisite. that is why what many of the rapporteurs have said here has been absolutely correct and is reflected in our progress reports. but it cannot be used now to say that we cannot start negotiations with turkey because it has not yet done what needs to be negotiated. i'm afraid that's a contradiction in terms. i must also point out to you, mrs. sommer, it is simply not right that you are saying that turkey is demanding more and more money without doing anything. i should know if turkey is asking for more money. she doesn't. the truth is - and this is a shame - that the european union has failed to honour its financial commitments to turkey. this is the reality. i would like to say that the question of the possible effects of turkey's accession on the community system is one of the most important questions of all. the suggestion that a special inquiry be set up on this subject is particularly important and interesting to me. it is also my conviction that this should happen, and we have already begun to think about how the framework for such work should be drawn. but it is important that, at the same time as a possible decision to open negotiations, there should also be evidence of what this would actually mean for the union in the end. i can only agree with all those who have said with great clarity that change must take place in reality. i have said this to the turkish prime minister during the long negotiating pauses in the last few days at the bürgenstock in switzerland. he knows the problem, and i told him: we need to see so much critical mass in the implementation of reforms by the end of this year that we are able to say that the implementation process is credible and sustainable. if this is not the case, we will hardly be able to conclude that the political criteria are met. i would also like to stress what mr brok said about sticking to the reform process. that's the most important thing! i am, as you know, in favour of a very open, open and even contentious debate on the fundamental question of whether turkey should join or not. i am always asking that in all that we say and how we debate, we do not tear the ground from under the feet of the reformists in turkey. whatever we have in mind with turkey, we must agree on one thing: we have a fundamental interest in a democratic, rule of law and stable turkey as a solid and reliable partner of the european union. that is the case in any case, and that is why the reform process must continue. finally, i would like to say a few words about cyprus: all the questions raised in the oostlander report concerning turkish responsibility for cyprus will be resolved by the adoption of the annan plan, and then all the questions will disappear because there will be a solution. they're not relevant anymore. i have the impression that what really matters now is to convince the greek cypriot community, above all, that the plan that has been found, the last plan that is now available - and there will be no other - is also in their interest. this requires really strong leadership and strong political will. i am happy to provide the european parliament and the committees with all the information we have, but i must point out that there is nothing to change in the plan. so we can only look at it very closely and form our judgment about it, but there's nothing to change. that's what i wanted to answer you. i really do ask for your understanding that, for an exceptional reason, i cannot take part in the whole debate, but i have told you the reason and i ask for your understanding.
mr president, i thank our excellent rapporteur for the great work he has done and for the sobriety with which he has approached his subject and the open-mindedness with which he has accepted our amendments, which, contrary to what mr van orden has argued, do not want to take turkey back on terms that have already been met, but want reforms not to be done on paper but in reality and reform not to remain a virtual reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not our idea. there are those who argue that a muslim turkey cannot be accepted into the european union. we do not accept this, but we want a turkey which can of course be muslim, and will be, but which must be democratic and peaceful, at least towards its partners in the european union. if turkey thinks that we will accept it as a military power and that we will endorse the militaristic mentality of its armed forces leadership within the european union, it is very much mistaken. the turkish position on the cyprus problem is not encouraging, and i am very much afraid that neither the secretary-general's plan nor the position of the european commission is encouraging, because they cannot accept a massive military presence, which amounts to a military occupation of part of cyprus, 18 years after cyprus's accession to the european union, and possibly even after turkey's accession to the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope and i am in favour of the greek side accepting this plan, but let us be aware that we are asking the greek side to build a democracy on something that is fundamentally undemocratic, such as the annan plan in its present form. i hope we can achieve this for the good of both cyprus and the european union, but we must know what we are asking for. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. there is a distance. for example, the minister of education requests reports of students' fanaticism against other nationalities. there is no reason for reform to reach the depths of the east. the reform must reach the ministry of education first. the rector of the university of istanbul stands up and talks about 135 000 dead to take over both cyprus and greece. i do not say that it is representative of all public opinion, or of the government, but it does show a resistance of at least part of turkish public opinion to certain fundamental changes and it must be taken into account, because turkey's accession to the european union can only be achieved au fur et à mesure of the changing mentality within turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been argued, mr president, by the president of the turkish industrialists' association two years ago that turkey will either become europe or pakistan. we want turkey to become europe and to achieve this we must strengthen every progressive tendency within turkey, so that this can be achieved through internal processes and not through external manipulation, because through external manipulation we cannot hope to change what is necessary in turkey.
mr president, the report under discussion, while acknowledging many of the problems facing turkey and its people in all areas, and citing specific examples of flagrant violations of fundamental rights, at the same time makes a curious observation, and was repeated today by mrs oostlander and mr verheugen, of important, encouraging steps. it considers as such certain amendments to the legislative framework which are not implemented in practice, despite the views expressed from time to time by the governors. the report also notes the strong commitment of the present government to radical reforms in all areas. however, it is surprising to find such findings, since it is not the first time that the turkish governments have expressed such sentiments, which are blatantly contradicted by everyday practice: the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. the prisons are full of thousands of political prisoners, including leyla zana and the three kurdish mps who, after ten years in prison, are facing a new, rigged trial. the constitutional court upheld the ban on the communist party. dehap is threatened with a new ban, while its leaders are tried and human rights defenders are persecuted and murdered. the people's mobilizations for peace, democracy and workers' rights are brutally suppressed, the army continues to dominate the political and social life of the country. the european union must also be able to take action to combat terrorism, and this is a matter of urgency. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, which will be able to provide information on the activities of the european union and its member states. on the contrary, it supports the annan plan which in effect tramples on un resolutions and international law in general, legitimising the results of the invasion and occupation. the report blackmails the cypriot government into accepting it! the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report is inspired by a spirit of asserting the sovereignty of the european union in all areas and a spirit of serving its large capital. that is why, mr president, the kke meps will vote against the report, also based on the experience of the greek people, with feelings of solidarity towards the peoples of turkey, considering that the negative elements for them from the accession process and its accession will be unimaginably heavier than any positive elements.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the terrible events in madrid gave the european council an opportunity to speed up the implementation of measures already provided for by law and to bring the united states and nato even closer together. in addition to strengthening police measures, electronic registration and control (i.e. the tracking of) persecuted persons seeking refuge on our continent, humanitarian organizations will also be controlled to ensure that they do not support terrorists and, of course, extremist religious and political views. the real causes of terrorism are, for obvious reasons, outside the council's interests. in the economic field, after having seen that capitalist restructuring is not going so well, workers are once again being called upon to sacrifice themselves for the benefit of the monopolies. social security systems must be 'modernized', the elderly must be put to work and everyone must submit to the will of employers with flexible conditions, job insecurity and part-time work. all countries will be checked and recommendations will be made for those who do not comply. that is how we get 'more and better jobs'! the council also called on the member states to take the necessary steps to ensure that the social partners were involved in the implementation of the reforms. although there are some leaders who have been bribed to support this, we are convinced that popular resistance will grow. the people have the power to overthrow their plans.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report gives a fairly credible picture of the european union, which is very different from the make-up profile of a model in respect for human rights so often presented by the european union's propagandists. it contains several critical references to the situation of fundamental rights in the eu, the treatment of prisoners, slavery and forced labour, the protection of personal data, freedom of expression and access to information, the right to asylum, racism and xenophobia, gender discrimination, disabled people, labour rights, the rights of third country nationals and fair access to justice. however, this self-criticism is undermined because the report considers it a criterion that the eu charter of fundamental rights is respected, even though it does not correspond at all to the content of several constitutions, including the greek one. our most basic objection, however, concerns the treatment of fundamental rights such as the right to work, free health care, schooling, welfare, etc. at a time when capital is attacking the rights of workers head-on, it is an illusion at best to think that the problem can be solved not by fighting but by new eu directives and measures or by implementing the existing ones. as regards women's rights, the report ignores the fact that equality in social and family life can only be achieved if the capitalist core of eu policy is removed. the kke members of the european parliament therefore vote neither for nor against.
- the next item is the report (a5-0253/2004) by mr ghilardotti, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the modernisation of company law and improved corporate governance in the european union - the way forward (com (2003) 284 - c5-0378/2003 - 2003/2150 (ini)).
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. mr president, successful corporate governance involves reducing the hedges on cross-border investment and increasing capital mobility. the european community of 25 must therefore give the business through which its international influence passes a global identity. this identity for europe cannot be dissociated from practices that are sensitive to social and environmental issues. i therefore regret that my colleagues in the european people's party have rejected my amendment in the committee on legal affairs, in which i argued that all directives on company law should include the obligation to inform and consult employees' representatives in cases where important decisions are to be taken which affect the continuity of companies and jobs. it is regrettable that whenever we try to integrate the productive system and the interests of labour, a coalition is formed against such proposals as if they were a mortal danger. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but we must - and i am glad that the commissioner has accepted it - accept the distinction between large and small shareholders in any case, particularly as regards the use of modern technology in exercising shareholders' voting rights, since small shareholders are more exposed to risks. i am very pleased that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has accepted the amendment. finally, for the same reasons, particular care should be taken to address methods that lead to the misappropriation of shareholder votes, such as arrangements that allow the informal organisation of systems for the representation of shareholders by large anonymous groups. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur, with whom i agree on her basic points.
commission. mr president, there is just one point i should like to stress at the end of this debate: the matter of stakeholders and corporate social responsibility. the commission's action plan is part of an overall strategy to foster the efficiency and competitiveness of businesses and to strengthen shareholders' rights and the protection of third parties. however, there are also related initiatives which are part of that overall strategy. they include the commission's activities on corporate social responsibility and in particular the work of the european multi-stakeholder forum, set up at the initiative of my former colleague, mrs diamantopoulou. it would therefore have been inappropriate to introduce under this action plan another policy framework concerning corporate social responsibility. what matters more is to do what mrs berès has asked the commission to do, which is to take due and full account of the interests of all stakeholders in the measures the commission will adopt. the action plan clearly recognises this need and the commission is therefore committed to acting accordingly.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0192/2004) by mr radwan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the legal framework for a single area of payments (2003/2101 (ini)).
in writing. the president of the parliament in an interview with the cypriot newspaper φιλελεύθερος reportedly made the following comment about the cypriot leaders: "so, personally, i'm disappointed in what i think is a failure in the areas of imagination and courageous leadership that is required to be displayed at this time". the european union is also calling on the cypriot authorities to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the eu's information and to make use of it. i consider it unacceptable and unacceptable that the president of the european parliament, even on a personal level, is throwing all his weight into adding to the unbearable pressure, blackmail and threats that the cypriot people are receiving from the un secretary-general and his entourage, from the us government, from the european commission and the council, from turkey and many others, including political forces in greece. his intervention is an insult and, if i may say so, a disrespect to the political forces of cyprus and to the entire cypriot people, who do not need lessons in good behaviour from the president of parliament or anyone else. moreover, his comment contradicts what he said at the beginning of the same interview, that: "the choice of the communities of cyprus in the two referendums is the choice of free and sovereign peoples". does the president and others think that the only free choice the cypriot people have in the referendum is 'yes'?
in writing. mr president, a few weeks after the assassination of hamas leader sheikh yassin, the sharon government assassinated the new leader of al-radisi, proving that it not only does not want the peace process to move forward and an independent palestinian state to exist, but also adds fuel to the fire and seeks tension. the eu, as has been shown by its attitude so far, is essentially aligning itself with the us, limiting itself to verbal protests against such killings and israeli raids, while at the same time speaking - and through solana - of israel's right to self-defence and examining sharon's policy of evacuating gaza. it puts the perpetrator in the position of the victim. the kke deputies denounce the crimes of the sharon government and the hypocritical, in effect complicit, policy of the eu. we express our active solidarity with the palestinian people and call on the european parliament to demand that the eu stop arming israel and freeze the association agreement with it. mr president, today, at your invitation, the european parliament again observed a minute's silence for the young italian paramilitary executed in iraq, but it never asked for the same for the thousands of victims of the attackers in afghanistan, iraq and before in yugoslavia, as the kke members have repeatedly asked you to do. can you tell us when you intend to do so?
in writing. mr president, i have asked to speak to inform the house that the pakistani authorities have allowed the crew of the tasman spirit to return to their homes in greece and the philippines. after months of efforts by the greek government with the then foreign minister george papandreou, which have continued to this day, and the provision of guarantees by the greek government, after the reaction of our parliament, which adopted a resolution on the matter, after the activity of the troika, commissioner chris patten and the transition on the spot, the desired result has been achieved. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. i would like to draw the house's attention to and request your immediate intervention on a very important matter concerning the survival of greek farmers who are really on the verge of disaster. the severe weather that hit greece a few months ago caused widespread damage to agricultural capital (plant, pot, etc.) throughout the country, creating serious problems for the survival of the affected farmers, who are threatened with bankruptcy if concrete measures are not taken immediately. i ask you, mr president, to intervene in order to speed up the time-consuming community approval procedures for the payment of compensation and financial aid to greek farmers, as was done in france, spain and malta, so that bankruptcy is prevented and the farmers affected can continue their productive activity.
- we now move to the vote on the request for urgent procedure. (parliament rejected the request for an urgent debate)
mr bonde, i can inform you that the parliament's services are verifying the signatures, because, as you know, some signatures were added and others deleted in connection with the submission of the signatures. as soon as the verification process is completed during the morning, the president of parliament will be informed so that he can take a decision on the matter.
- the next item is the report (a5-0257/2004) by mr sterckx, on behalf of the committee on safety at sea, on safety at sea.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was part of my party's mission to galicia immediately after the accident and i remember how shocked we were by the spectacle on the beaches and by the despair of the people in the area. i would therefore like to express my surprise at the blunt statement made by the representative of the spanish government at the time that in the event of an accident like that of the prestige, he would still decide to remove the ship from the coast. i would also like to stress the findings of the report on the treatment of the captain of the prestige and the fact that such treatment was later applied in pakistan to the seamen of the tasman spirit, a case on which our parliament has passed a resolution and in which these seamen have already been allowed to return home. pakistan is ahead of any other member state of the european union in this respect! i would also like to denounce a forgery, not a mistake, an obvious deliberate distortion made in the translation into greek - into greek only - of the discussion with captain maguire referred to in the report, where the translator, by adding a phrase that does not exist in mr sterckx's text, presents the captain as supporting exactly the opposite of what he actually supported and as agreeing with the actions of the spanish authorities. i would remind you that the prestige disaster and the composition and functioning of the mare committee have been the subject of considerable attention in the greek media, which of course draw their information from greek texts. it seems that the translator wanted to avoid offending the spanish government and its greek supporters. i ask everyone in charge to look into my complaint, which is mentioned in the last paragraph of the chapter entitled 'exchange of views with the captain' in the explanatory statement, and to put an end to the translation mafia in this parliament. in conclusion, i would like to express my faith in a full, i would say, cooperation with the imo.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of shipping is not compromised by the fact that the shipping industry is not able to comply with the safety standards. what is usually happening is that industry is being blamed, seafarers are being blamed, states tend to shift all the responsibility off themselves and it is obvious that this is not true. i wish it was that simple, because we would have solved the problem. the problem of safety of navigation is obviously not the greek captain, mr maghouras, who should be treated better by the spanish authorities, as the sterckx report rightly points out, nor is it solely the problem of the single-hull tankers. it is also the maintenance of ships, as the recent sinking of the double-hulled tanker rocknes off norway shows, it is that we have no ports of refuge, in breach of community law, it is that we do not carry out port checks properly, in breach of community law again. it is a total, let me say, failure of the member states to apply the generally good legislative framework that we have in the european union. the first thing we have to do is to implement community legislation and then to look at the measures proposed in the sterckx report, to select some basic priorities and to take additional measures, such as the creation of a european coastguard. i would also point out that, obviously, because shipping is an international problem, international measures are needed and that is why cooperation with the international maritime organisation is always necessary.
the problem to be tackled, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is the violation of the existing provisions on working conditions in the freight transport sector, and our aim is of course to suppress and drastically reduce these violations. we all agreed in the committee on transport that the european commission's proposal is generally positive, but there is room for improvement. the rapporteur has handled the matter very well, showing how close he is to the transport workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety of the road users is not compromised. the combination of this sensitivity with a sense of proportion requires that the proposed measures be treated realistically and without exaggeration. we believe that the volume of controls imposed should be commensurate with the volume of expected results. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have also taken into account the need to harmonize as far as possible the social provisions in the field of road transport in the member states, the possibilities offered by modern technology in the field of controls, the statistical data at our disposal, and the view already expressed by the european parliament on the better implementation of the social provisions in force, as well as the views of the social partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to congratulate the european commission, mrs de palacio, and our rapporteur, mr markov, on their work.
in writing. - (el) i hope that the proposal for a directive on consumer credit which we are discussing will provide a solution which is beneficial to consumers and put an end to this unacceptable situation which is an eldorado for credit institutions. in greece, consumer credit has been growing rapidly in recent years and there is already talk of excessive debt on the part of greek households. this increase is due not only to misleading advertising to attract customers, but also to the opaque terms and conditions and the "small print" in the contracts, which place additional burdens on borrowers. no one can deny the need to establish measures to standardise the information that banks must provide, so that consumers can more easily compare and choose the best product for their needs. this information should include the actual annual interest rate, any costs of entering into the contract, the number and amount of instalments and the total cost of the loan. it is also necessary to introduce the right of the consumer to withdraw from the contract within a reasonable period of time without having to justify his action.
in the light of the recent developments in the world, the commission has decided to propose a new approach to the kyoto protocol. instead of taking real action to reduce the co2 and gas emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect and the climate change that results from it, the eu is making sure that 'flexible' mechanisms are used to not only avoid harm to industry but also to benefit it. this is despite the fact that the eu will not reach its target of reducing pollution by 8% by 2010. the principle of buying and selling everything has thus created a market for pollution rights! the directive is now being supplemented by 'joint implementing measures' and 'sustainable development mechanisms'. both concepts refer to industries that invest in cleaner technology in countries outside the eu. the reduction in pollution that is achieved is put on the assets side of the industries and they are given the right to pollute elsewhere (within the eu)! this is clearly another maneuver involving complicated and uncertain procedures to circumvent the substance of the kyoto protocol and to benefit companies, as the cost of implementing the protocol will be reduced by 20%. the report does not raise the slightest objection to the above measures and that is why the kke members of the european parliament voted against it.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the hypocrisy of this is shown by the fact that the persecution and banning of communists in many acceding countries and the annan plan for cyprus are considered to be in line with eu principles. in practice, the principles are so broad as to encompass everything that serves the interests of the monopolies, and so narrow as to exclude the fundamental rights of workers. the commission communication and the report by the committee on constitutional affairs deal with the question as a legal question and focus on the procedure for applying article 7 of the treaty, which provides for sanctions against member states which violate the principles of the union. the question is not only legal, however, it is deeply political. the report does not in any way call into question the 'good intentions' of the european union. however, it also contains positive elements such as the emphasis on the need to ensure a higher level of protection of fundamental rights and the acceptance or encouragement of a political climate in which people feel threatened, etc. for this reason, the kke members of the european parliament did not vote against the report, but neither for nor against it.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have to say that today's debate on the third cohesion report, on the fourth community support framework, is actually much easier than earlier debates we had on the same subject in the european parliament and i think that a key reason for this is commissioner barnier's personal contribution to this, in the sense that the dialogue on the new programming period 2007-2013 started very early and in this way it was possible to create, thanks to the help of the european parliament and thanks to having heard the views of the european parliament, a broad consensus on this very difficult issue. we must therefore give him credit and note, of course, that he was helped in this by the present commissioner, mrs fischler, and by mrs diamantopoulou. i should also add that this effort was even more difficult, given that we are now faced with enlargement, we have many new countries covered by the structural funds and the cohesion fund and there would have to be a fundamental reprogramming of the european union's regional policy. i think that the third cohesion report, as presented by the european commission, and the position of the european parliament clearly show the usefulness of this policy. and i think the first message that should be clear from this debate is that the european parliament, together with the european commission, is opposed to any thought of renationalizing this policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i would also like to add that this policy, especially in view of enlargement, must be substantially supported by funding, and that is why parliament once again reiterates its position that its funding cannot be less than 0.46% of gross national product. we therefore agree with the european commission, which has in any case adopted a proposal from the european parliament on this subject. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the lion's share of the funding is going to what has hitherto been known as objective 1, the 'convergence objective' as it will be called from now on, and we believe that the problem created in the regions affected by statistics must be tackled effectively. they must be included in objective 1 and receive substantial financial support, and we also believe that these regions which are victims of statistics - and here we disagree with the european commission - should be included in the provisions of article 87 (3a) of the treaty in terms of state aid. the european parliament also believes, mr president, that the simplification of objective 2 is right, and we also believe that the initiatives we have known so far, equal, leader and urban, should be integrated into the basic programmes of the european union and remain the only community initiative, as a new objective 3, if you will, the interreg initiative for crossborder cooperation, which we believe adds to cooperation and development at european level. i would also like to say that our report gives particular attention to specific sectoral problems, such as the problems of rural areas, where we have received many proposals from the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment. and as a member from greece, i want to focus on the problems arising from permanent geographical structural handicaps and they relate to areas such as islands, such as mountainous areas and, of course, the northern sparsely populated areas of finland and sweden. we believe that there should be specific policies not only in the context of regional policy, cohesion policy, but also in general in the other sectoral policies of the european union. we welcome the simplification of procedures which the european commission is attempting to make with the principle 'one fund, one programme', but we will wait to see the details and, mr president, we want the role of the european parliament, particularly in the preparation of the european commission's strategic documents for the new programming period, to be substantial and to have the right of co-decision of the european parliament. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. as you know, my colleague michel barnier has been appointed french foreign minister. he was therefore forced to leave the commission and, until his successor was appointed, president prodi entrusted me with the agendas of structural and regional policy. i therefore welcome the opportunity that the hatzidakis report gives us today to debate in principle the future of european economic, social and territorial cohesion policy. i would also like to thank you very much, mr hatzidakis, for your interesting report. the third report on economic and social cohesion was adopted by the commission on 18 february and presented to parliament by mr barnier on the same day. the commission's proposal is to be seen against the background of the proposal for the financial perspective, which we had also adopted earlier in february. the commission calls for a new partnership for cohesion. it must be our common desire to build not just a europe based on the common market, but a europe which is at the same time more competitive but also more solidary, a europe which will better enable us to achieve the lisbon and gothenburg objectives of sustainable development and a knowledge-based economy. the enlargement of the union on 1 may, which will bring many economically weak regions into the european union, has made a strong european policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion even more urgent and even more central. the commission has made a great effort to accommodate as far as possible the wishes of the various european institutions and regional and local authorities in its proposals for the future planning period 2007-13. the report is therefore not the mere idea of a single commissioner, but the result of a long and wide-ranging debate to which the european parliament has also made an important contribution. i refer in particular to the two important reports by mr mastorakis and mr pomés ruiz, which you adopted in september 2003 and to which mr hatzidakis also refers explicitly in his report. the debate, particularly at the level of finance ministers and heads of state, has only just begun on the question of the level of ambition we want to achieve with our cohesion policy. the report you have submitted today is a valuable contribution to an ambitious cohesion policy, as the commission is proposing, since the discussions on this subject will certainly be difficult. what specifically did we propose? firstly, a convergence objective for those regions whose gdp per capita is below 75% of the community average. secondly, the specific situation of the regions affected by the so-called statistical effect solely because of enlargement should be taken into account. thirdly, the cohesion fund should be integrated into these two actions. fourthly, a new objective to improve regional competitiveness and employment is to be introduced. fifthly, measures to promote interregional cooperation will be redesigned on the basis of the experience gained with interreg. in general, i can only agree with the rapporteur when he calls for a great deal of simplification in the future management of the structural funds. we have already made specific proposals for this, but we intend to put them into legal form in july. this applies to all areas, not just the area of responsibility of michel barnier. for example, we want to have a disconnect in the area for which i am responsible, rural development. we will be working to ensure that we first of all achieve the creation of a single rural development fund, which will bring together the various existing funds. secondly, there should be a single regulation setting out all the measures for rural development, and thirdly, the financial perspective should give priority to rural development. the same applies to the area of responsibility of former colleague mrs diamantopoulos and to the area previously held by mr michel barnier. we are moving here at a level where it is a question of developing a single instrument of programming and financing with corresponding common control rules. i think that would be a great step forward. ladies and gentlemen, i also agree with mr hatzidakis that 0.41% of community gdp - if you include rural development funds, it is 0.45% - should be regarded as a minimum for an effective cohesion policy. the report by mr hatzidakis also contains certain fears and concerns. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the difficult question of the definition of cohesion policy and the regional aid regime, which it has already raised. i am also personally concerned with the contribution of rural development to a balanced spatial planning policy and i can only assure you here today that we will continue to keep an eye on all the necessary measures and that, as i said, we are working to be able to present concrete proposals for regulations to parliament in the course of july.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, after congratulating the rapporteur warmly, i should like to stress on behalf of the committee on industry the importance of the contribution of industrial policy, and particularly research and innovation, to this third report on economic and social cohesion. it is clear that economic and social development, which is now geared towards the knowledge economy, requires overcoming the syndrome of peripherality and exploiting regional comparative advantage, innovation and research. to find their way, the regions must move away from the traditional path and focus on the growing economic importance of new industries, such as, for example, the ecological and cultural industries, which can offer new jobs but also overcome geographical constraints. economic and social cohesion requires, in addition to funding, new ideas, ingenuity and innovative methods.
mr president, as a former mayor of a regional island town, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the new commissioner, mr barnier, for his efforts to promote the idea of social and economic cohesion in the europe of the regions. i would also like to thank my colleague and co-rapporteur of the report under discussion, mr costi hatzidakis, for his work, which, as we all know, has not been made public only in this report. it is certainly very positive to note that our parliament, by an overwhelming majority, accepts that any renationalization of regional policy would be disastrous even for the very substance of the european union, of which it is a key linking material; whereas the so-called statistical effects of enlargement, and of any enlargement, will be dealt with in a way which ensures that the support to the regions deemed necessary before enlargement is continued so that their development is not halted; whereas areas with particular natural handicaps should also be accorded special treatment; whereas cohesion policy, as an essential instrument of the union for the implementation of the lisbon objectives, has so far produced significant results; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, as the author of the report on the recommendation to the council, i am particularly pleased today to hear the commission's positive opinion on croatia's accession to the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in your opinion, will there be a timetable for the final stage of croatian accession? i would ask mr verheugen: does the commission believe that, in the light of its experience, by the year 2007, when romania and bulgaria join, croatia will be ready to join these countries in becoming a member of the european union?
commission. i would like to stress again that it is not totally correct to talk about limiting cultural cooperation or limiting cultural activities. what has been decided relates to limiting the presence of member states' representatives in cultural events in cuba. so the non-participation in cuba of the formal representatives from the different member states and the commission is not directly aimed at limiting cultural activities.
on the occasion of the debate on cuba, and in agreement with the comments made by mr martinez, i would like to take up a point and ask the commissioner whether the european commission or the european union in general is planning to finally intervene to put an end to this embargo imposed by the united states against cuba for over 40 years, an embargo which has caused and continues to cause enormous damage to cuba and its people. and let no one tell us that this has anything to do with respect for human rights, because we know that if there are some who cannot speak of such respect, it is the americans themselves who, in addition to what they are doing in the whole world, with iraq as a typical example, are trampling on human rights in their own country with daily executions and holding in unacceptable conditions the five patriots whose only crime was to have exposed terrorist acts against cuba and its leaders, which were organized by the united states. i would therefore ask for an answer to put an end to this story, especially since the european union seems to be agreeing to it. (the president cut off the speaker)
commission. i find this supplementary question totally unnecessary. the european decision against that embargo has been clear for many years. there is no new line whatsoever on that point, and there has never been any need for europe to say anything new. we have had this line all along and the disagreement between europe and the us stands, as has always been the case.
mr nielson, in greece there has been a very recent public debate about the possible invitation of fidel castro to greece for the olympic games. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i would ask you, commissioner, firstly, whether the european commission will encourage the greek government to invite the cuban president to athens during the olympic games and, secondly, whether the european commission considers such an invitation to be a positive step.
commission. mr president, the basic regulation establishing the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has now been in place for ten years. it has been amended only on an ad hoc basis. the aim of the proposal was to reform the basic regulation on the centre in order to take into account the evolution in the patterns of drug use, the way in which the centre currently operates, the effects of enlargement and the horizontal measures that the commission would like to see applied to agencies in general. the legal basis of the centre remains unchanged: it is article 308. the main changes from the previous regulation are as follows. firstly, there is the strengthened role of the centre. the commission proposes that the centre should now be responsible for collecting, recording and analysing data on emerging trends in multiple drug use, including the combined use of legal and illegal psychotropic substances. in addition, the centre will devise tools and methods for evaluating drug policies and strategies implemented in the european union. the centre will also be able to provide technical assistance to the western balkans. secondly, in order to take account of enlargement, we have introduced a number of measures enabling the centre to operate effectively in an enlarged europe – for example the creation of a post of vice-chairman and a steering committee, and a review of the composition of the centre's scientific committee. given that the scientific committee is, by definition, a non-political body, we propose that it should be composed of only 18 experts appointed by the centre's management board on the basis of their qualifications. thirdly, there is the question of the participation of the european parliament in the management board. given that parliament is now the discharge authority for agencies, any potential conflict of interest that could arise should be avoided. i want to point out that out of the 15 community agencies only three – the environment agency, the medicines agency and the monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia – have european parliament representatives on their management boards. the other new element in the commission proposal is of a more technical nature, concerning either corrections related to the consolidation exercise or the updating of procedures in the new agencies. to conclude, this proposal introduces simplifications through consolidation and it should enable the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction to operate effectively in an enlarged european union.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's drug policy is not distorted by the use of the newly created european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. on the one hand, because of enlargement and, on the other, because of the new trends observed among young people in the parallel use of legal substances such as alcohol and illegal substances. the commission proposal establishes the main tasks of the centre as the collection, analysis and processing of transnational data on drug problems. i think it is necessary, however, that the centre should also move towards evaluating the different national policies rather than simply recording the data. only in this way will member states be provided with the knowledge of the best and most effective practices in this difficult field. mr president, i consider equally important the question of the representation of the european parliament on the centre's governing board, and i therefore propose that two members of parliament be appointed as representatives to report regularly to the committee responsible. the procedure for appointing the director should be the same as for all other community bodies, namely the submission of an application. the selection should be transparent and attractive to all potential candidates. i have tabled amendments to all these points and they have been accepted. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation.
mr president, this is a different matter from what is being discussed. thank you for giving me the floor. on monday, at the beginning of the sitting, we usually have half an hour for topical issues which each member wants to raise. on monday, due to procedural problems, you moved this half hour to the end of monday's sitting, that is to say midnight and perhaps later. but this debate and this opportunity are given to members to raise, as i said, topical issues which, at one o'clock in the morning, lose their relevance. i would like to protest, mr president, because i too asked to speak in order to raise a serious issue. you didn't give it to me and you didn't accept the conversation. please do not repeat this kind of procedure.
mr president, let me say something a little different from what we have heard so far. i think there's been a distortion of the picture, mr. president. the majority of political forces, both in greece and in cyprus, believe that the annan plan can help to solve the cyprus problem, and even to the prospect of the integration of a united cyprus into the european union. that's the truth. it gives a distorted picture. there's a question of how a section of the public perceives this story, how they feel about it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a long history of breaking agreements here. so instead of looking for a miracle, as my friend cohn-bendit says, let us do what we can do. let us not exaggerate, insult or criticize each other. what we can do is to ask for a serious and credible guarantee now from the un and the european union that the whole annan plan, as it stands, will be implemented to the end and there will be no tricks and deviations after a year or after eight months or two years. let's ask for this. it's the only thing we can do now, before the referendum. we'll see about the rest later.
mr president, our position, in a word, as described by the greek prime minister karamanlis and as described by my friend mr brok a short while ago, is that the positive aspects of the 'yes' outweigh the negative aspects, and that is the case when the 'yes' to the reunification of cyprus is seen from the european perspective, that is to say that cyprus will be a member of the european union. however, the question is how can we help the 'yes'; how can we try for a "no" vote in the referendum? but to do that we need to understand why 'no' has had and has such a great resonance amongst cypriots. i'll give you examples. why would thousands of refugees vote 'yes' when their future is uncertain, when not all will return to their ancestral homes and not all will get their property, while being denied the basic human right of judicial protection by the european court of human rights? the european union is also concerned that the continued presence of greek and turkish troops on the island is contrary to the principle of demilitarisation enshrined in the plan. i could go on to say that there are many other reasons why the 'no' has become popular among greek cypriots. the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that is not a member of the council of europe, has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not a mere spectator, but that it is a representative of the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore call on you to pay attention and vote on certain amendments which improve the text and show that the european parliament is here to support the 'yes'. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i am sorry that commissioner verheugen has left. apparently, he had some other pressing business. i subscribe to everything that commissioner verheugen has said and i share his bitterness on this issue, because he has really been one of the protagonists who has worked very hard to bring things to a point where we can start a real reconciliation of the greeks and turks in cyprus. when i was young, mr president, i suffered in my own country from the suppression of press freedom, and i feel pain and shame that today greeks who want their freedom are depriving commissioner verheugen of the right to speak to them and try to persuade them of what he considers to be right, the one who has fought so hard to get things to a satisfactory state. we want the wine. the politicians in greece, all of them, said they wanted a yes, starting with mr papandreou. we want the guarantees that have been heard here to be emphasized, but the greatest guarantee, mr president, is the change in the world situation. the cypriots are divided because they were divided by a colonial regime that is now bankrupt, because they were divided by the cold war. that's not there anymore. the european union is the counterweight to these things and invites them to join it in order to live differently. not to keep dividing them. inside them is the greatest guarantee and from inside they must get it out. i would like to conclude, mr president, by reminding my cypriot compatriots of some of the words of the great greek politician eleftherios venizelos: "the fate of a people is determined by its own people, and what its own madness does to it, its enemies do not do to it".
mr president, first of all i would like to express the full support of the communist party of greece to the insubordinate cypriot people who, unlike the european union, do not throw away the decisions of the united nations on the turkish invasion and occupation. listening to the debate, mr. president, i was reminded of the poet's words: "they came dressed as friends, and my enemies came in dresses". the european union is a very important institution in cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been shown that the community acquis is a fraud, a worthless piece of paper, while the former friends are now pressing, blackmailing and threatening, and that includes you, mr president, and mr verheugen who is contemptuous of us in his absence. it is unacceptable and unfair that mr verheugen accuses the president of cyprus of having cheated him. mr papadopoulos and the greek cypriot leadership never committed themselves to accepting any monstrosity that the un secretary-general might create. what is the commissioner afraid of ? the obligations arising from the fact that part of a member state of the european union will be under the occupation of a candidate country? who does the annan plan serve? the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots or the wider imperialist plans? what kind of state would be the umbrella of two practically independent states, which could be represented even in european councils and diplomatic missions, two states which would need special agreements to regulate their relations, while being at the mercy of the guarantor powers and foreign judges? how safe will the cypriots feel without their own army, but with the military presence of turkey, greece, the united kingdom, perhaps nato? what is your view of the fact that the military agreements of the occupying regime with turkey are being converted into primary community law? how do you feel about the fact that cyprus is obliged to support turkey's candidacy under any circumstances? let the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots assess the situation and decide in their own interests. respect their history, respect their dignity, cast off the arrogance and hubris of the overlord! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, in three days' time, cyprus will hold a referendum on whether to accept or reject the annan plan. the yes or no vote in the referendum will not be two sides of the same coin, but different sides of different coins. the next day won't be the same as the last. today's debate confirms the key role of the european parliament in this long-term hopeful development of the cyprus problem and the extremely positive role of commissioner verheugen, of my colleague mr poos and of all the european union's actors in general. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the party i belong to, pasok, and its leader, george papandreou, have been and are leading the way in the whole process of cyprus's development, both in terms of the solution of the problem and its accession to the european union. it's time for the truth. the european union must be able to respond to the challenges of history by facing the dilemma head on and responding responsibly and positively. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. no is an answer. in any case, the answer will be given by the cypriot people. the european parliament and the european union are providing their support and their capabilities as security guarantors for the full exploitation of all aspects of the annan plan. we must ask the un to do the same. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i, as a greek mep, whose first contact with politics and politicization was in the demonstrations and struggles of the cypriots to get rid of british colonialism and then in all the dramatic adventures of cyprus, believe that the 'yes' leads to a historical balance with a perspective, a positive historical compromise, in which everyone can hope for a positive future of prosperity and security for all, greek cypriots, turkish cypriots and the wider region. i'll end with an old saying: "time does not wait". "time does not wait".
mr president, i would also like to say, commissioner, that mr verheugen has left us too soon and i regret that. almost all the political parties in greece and the main ones in cyprus have come out in favour of the annan plan. but they share the concerns and doubts of the cypriot people, who do not follow the parties in this case. the negative reaction in cyprus is, i think, due to the time constraints which prevented the people from being informed in a calm and detailed manner. but how can there be such an update within 15 days of the submission of the latest annan plan? there never was. on the contrary, there was widespread inflammation and misinformation, which reinforced fears and doubts. if the referendum were postponed, as proposed, then there could be a quieter and more substantive briefing, while providing clear and convincing guarantees that the full text of the plan and agreement will be respected and not violated again by some 'guarantor powers'. because that's where the problem lies, in the guarantor powers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these guarantees must be provided by the security council and the european union and by the european parliament, whose resolution, improved by the amendments tabled by the epp, the socialist party and mr papayannakis, i think will strengthen the tendency and the desire of the cypriots to say 'yes'. the european parliament should not appear to be exerting pressure. the blackmail with threats of sanctions, which unfortunately also came from official lips, has fuelled the negative attitude of an uninformed and terrified people. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the cypriot authorities are informed and that security guarantees are strengthened, and this could change the climate and, after two or three months, lead to a positive outcome for which there is great hope. i do not understand why a repeat of a referendum which is allowed in other member states of the european union, if it has a negative impact in your country, mr president, should not be allowed in cyprus. i would ask that the amendments which make the european parliament's resolution encouraging, reassuring and friendly to the greek cypriots and turkish cypriots be voted on, and i am sure that it will encourage them to respond more positively to the annan plan. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, there is no doubt that the annan plan has implementation problems. it does not keep equal distances and provides for painfully long transitional periods for the entry into force of the european acquis. however, we unreservedly support the poos resolution and its constructive demands, because, firstly, the resolution removes the illegal turkish occupation of the north, prohibits further settlement, returns some of the greek territories and a number of refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it also requires an explicit declaration that we respect in advance any result, as the president-in-office of the council wisely pointed out to us today.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mr poos on his work, mrs mechtild rothe on her efforts over the years as chair of the joint parliamentary delegation, mr oostlander, mr brok who is not here and, of course, commissioner verheugen who unfortunately had to leave. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that we are having a more general political debate at the moment on the timing of the referendum on saturday and not on the content of the annan plan. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the positions of my colleagues, both the commissioner and the president of the council, and the bitterness expressed in this chamber about the climate currently prevailing in cyprus, lead me to conclude that, beyond the yes or no which has been discussed here in detail, the proposal by the president of the cypriot parliament, mr dimitris christofias, to postpone the referendums should be discussed in detail, particularly as the postponement should be linked on the one hand to clarifying certain points of the plan which are causing some problems, such as security issues, and i would ask mr patten to bring up the issue of the right of asylum and the right to be heard by the courts and the security report, which we are voting on in the security council, on the other. i think these two poles would definitely help in a climate inversion. finally, mr president, i should like to conclude by saying that, of course, an opinion must be expressed and that opinion of the european parliament is expressed in the resolution tabled by mr poos, together with all the amendments tabled. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in the light of the recent events in cyprus, the european union and the european parliament have decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the annan plan is implemented. the resolution adopted is a very serious insult to the cypriot people, calling on them to 'act fully as responsible citizens of the european union'. it lauds the annan plan as "a shining example of solving equally difficult international problems" and claims that it establishes "a functioning federal system of government". of course, there is not a word about the turkish invasion and occupation, the british bases and the guarantor powers. it does not mind the presence of turkish troops on eu territory. as repugnant as the content of the motion was the views expressed by many 'friends' of cyprus, including the president of parliament, mr pat cox, commissioners verheugen and patten, and greek members of the european parliament. the president accused the cypriot media of being selective, while he himself had ample opportunity in an interview with a cypriot newspaper to speak of the lack of courage and imagination of the cypriot leaders. the commissioners expressed their views in unacceptable, highly condescending and offensive terms, as rulers address their subjects. the kke stands by the cypriot people, the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots, and condemns unreservedly all forms of pressure, threats and coercion.
in writing. - (el) the the reaction to mr verheugen's attitude when he set the tone for the violent scare and pressure we have heard here today was one of astonishment and anger. the commissioner exceeded the powers which his institutional role gives him and lacked the necessary respect for democratic rights which the commission is supposed to safeguard. such attitudes should not exist when all the greek parties agree that the cypriot people must give their opinion without pressure and without being forced to assess the opportunities and risks arising from the outcome of the referendum, whatever it may be. in addition to the sustainability and functionality of the proposed solution, guarantees of the security and implementation of the agreements are required. if parliament were to express this view, it would contribute positively to creating the political conditions, that is to say, to obtaining the support for the solution from an overwhelming majority of greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, so as to promote the reunification of the island and the reconciliation of the two communities within the framework of a federation of the two communities and the two zones. instead of applying pressure, the motion for a resolution should clearly show its respect for the choice the cypriots had to make and accept the constructive amendments by the gue/ngl group and syn member mihail papayannakis on clear commitments and guarantees. after the rejection of the positive amendments, i could not support this text and therefore did not vote for or against it in the final vote.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated. it ignores the fact that the invasion and occupation of the island was a crime, it recognizes the innocence of the occupying power, it rewards it and it appoints it as guarantor. it establishes a state which is unique in the history of international law and which is not viable. in reality, we are talking about two states, each with its own economy, trade, industry, agricultural policy and labour market policy. it leaves major unresolved problems concerning the return of refugees, the compensation of property and the residence of settlers. it creates a situation of continuing tension between the two communities and leaves the door open to new interventions, including military ones. the cypriot people are under unbearable pressure and all kinds of blackmail. we find the statements made by verheugen and others today unacceptable, as do the threats of doom if the annan plan is rejected. in particular, we reject verheugen's unworthy and pathetic warning to the cypriots that the occupation troops and settlers will be doubled in number if they do not vote yes. and he got a standing ovation! you shameless little shit! this is the 'peace' europe that mr verheugen also spoke of today! we find it unacceptable that the us and the eu are constantly telling the cypriots what a unique opportunity this is (for whom, i wonder). the kke will once again declare its unwavering support for the cypriot people. the only acceptable solution is the implementation of the un resolutions to date and the agreements of the summits on a united, independent cyprus, without foreign bases and troops, a federal state with two communities and two zones, a common homeland for the turkish cypriots and the greek cypriots without foreign guarantors and protectors.
in writing. - (el) the the kke, immediately after the helsinki summit, stated that the procedure for the accession of cyprus to the eu was being used as a lever for the final partition of the island. i mention this to make it clear that the development was determined from the moment when a solution to the cyprus problem served a purpose and was in the interest of the european union and not in the interest of the cypriot people. how could the results of the turkish invasion and occupation of 1974 be changed if the eu has never treated the cyprus problem as a problem, has never made it a condition for turkey's accession that it lift the occupation of cyprus? how could a just solution be achieved with the intervention of the eu and the usa, when what happened in 1974 is now the common practice of the imperialist powers in yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq and palestine? how could the un secretary-general express anything other than the international coalition of powers, that is to say the imperialist new world order? it is therefore not surprising that the annan plan goes against previous un resolutions and agreements between the two communities, establishes a special state, unique in the history of international law, a so-called confederation and a division under foreign guardianship. the kke declares its unreserved support for the entire cypriot population. we urge you to do the same and stop this outrageous extortion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the threat of a maritime accident. the report's assertions that 80% is due to the human factor are wrong, unscientific and suspicious, as they seek to cover up the responsibility of shipping companies and government authorities by concealing the deterioration of maritime training and embellishing the consequences of an outdated fleet, inadequate inspection, inadequate crew composition and increased workload for seafarers. the accidents are directly linked to the irresponsibility of the second registers of ships in the member states of the european union and of the ships flying flags of convenience. it has been found that the registers of ships act as a mechanism to cover up offences and the continued irresponsibility of shipowners by issuing certificates which in most cases do not reflect the real condition of the ships. the commission and parliament's proposals conceal responsibility and promote the interests of the big monopolies, both those on the sea and those on the land, and under the pretext of fighting terrorism, they promote measures which infringe the basic democratic rights of the people of the sea. we demand the immediate release of the captain of the tanker prestige so that he can return to greece.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, despite all its successes, is still anxious to create new jobs, because this is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens, but it is also the best condition for our development and social cohesion. the employment guidelines and the luxembourg process in general are of great importance in achieving this objective, and that is why the committee on employment and social affairs is always examining them with particular interest, and our rapporteur, mrs hermange, has made a correct approach, for which we thank her and congratulate her. i would like to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect, and that it is in the interests of the community to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, increasing employment is a complex process and policy. it covers all areas of economic policy, social policy, education policy, vocational training, transparency, the fight against tax evasion and undeclared work. research and innovation have been given a great deal of emphasis in recent times - it was a decision of the last spring council - and i thank the rapporteur for accepting an amendment of mine to that effect. this requires good coordination of all these policies in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the guidelines. this policy of coordination is of great importance to the new member states, which are called upon to adopt european values in their internal policies. we have also seen that the countries where there is no good coordination are the ones that have the worst job growth. coordination and complementarity are required between european and national policies at all levels, central, regional, local, and between all the actors involved. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals for transparency and simplification of the procedure and information on the better use of the structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems that this subject, however necessary it may be considered by all, is not easy. it requires political costs, social fermentation and maturity that we do not seem to have in the necessary degree. the consensus we rely on as a policy, to be meaningful and successful, requires well-informed and prepared citizens, responsible social partners and a serious effort to make the results of our policies visible and to build trust in the objectives and procedures we choose.
madam president, since this is the last debate on the broad guidelines of economic policy during the lifetime of this parliament, perhaps we could attempt a more general overview. the use of the term 'european economic policy' is certainly an abuse. the union has no original competence in this area, and unfortunately it does not have it under the new draft constitution. the original competence lies with the member states. the union is merely coordinating. the european union has a responsibility in monetary policy, and we have achieved a great success, the introduction and stabilisation of the single currency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the growth rate remained low, with correspondingly high unemployment. the atrophy of the real economy led to a crisis in public finances, large deficits in large economies, which resulted in the collapse due to non-implementation of the stability pact. the 25th of november 2003 should have freed us from the stability pact. but instead we are returning to the same tired discussions of how to revive it, instead of looking for the opportunities that could get us out of the wreckage of the european economy. there are, of course, two possibilities. the first is a genuine common european policy in the context of a mixed economy. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because if you take the 30 years after world war ii, the mixed economy achieved full employment and high growth rates. if you take the next 30 years, which the free-market doctrine triumphed over, we have a collapse of full employment, a collapse and weakening of the european economy. it is time to return to more reasonable principles, to a mixed economy such as the one that served us so well in the post-war years. we are told that unemployment is structural and to cure it we must take structural measures. that just means measures against the workers. i would reply to that that the lack of investment is structural and we must act against the speculation of the capital markets which has paralysed the investment mechanism. if we can find a new alliance of social forces, then we can indeed bring the european economy back to its old level. if we cannot find this alliance, then the european economy is doomed to wither and eventually become a satellite of the american economy. it is time we realised that.
in writing. - (el) the we voted against the report - not because we disagree, but because all the sensible measures are being cancelled out by the first amendment, which promotes coexistence between genetically modified, conventional and organic crops, allowing beekeepers to produce honey containing gmos. we consider this extremely dangerous and destructive to beekeeping, precisely because honey is a quality agricultural product. the presence of genetically modified crops, together with the 0,9% gmos limit in honey, is based on the assumption that bees are able to choose between genetically modified crops and non-genetically modified crops. we condemn the european parliament's efforts to increase the coexistence of genetically modified, conventional and organic crops - despite the warning bells ringing from several well-founded scientific studies - and we would stress that no legislative measure can prevent or combat the enormous potential dangers. the argument that the cultivation and movement of gmos is now a done deal and that all that is missing is 'satisfactory' legislation is hypocritical, as what is presented as a fait accompli would not exist if the eu had not yielded to pressure from the us. we are categorically against the cultivation and movement of gmos and we will continue to fight for a complete ban on them, because we do not believe that anything is settled. the european parliament should take the same position. but parliament seems to have given in to pressure and other interests too long ago.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the aim of europass is not to help workers but to make it easier for employers to compare jobseekers and select those who will be most profitable with the lowest requirements, regardless of their country of origin. in the context of the 'free' movement of workers who will have to wander from country to country as nomads in search of work, this measure contributes to depressing wages and demands by using workers from poorer countries as a lever. at the same time, europass makes large companies responsible for assessing the educational and vocational qualifications of workers, thus removing this role from the education system. it helps to decouple qualifications from the right to work. several types of training and informal training are given priority over qualifications acquired through systematic training. in this way, europass becomes yet another tool which leads to the replacement of comprehensive, integrated training with 'flexible' sporadic training and incomplete skills to meet market requirements. there is no doubt that information on the so-called social competence of workers, that is to say, their behaviour at work and their acceptance of all the requirements that employers may place on them, will also soon be required. for these reasons, members of the communist party of greece in parliament voted against the report.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. in the name of competitiveness and productivity, the aim is to reduce wage and non-wage costs, thereby increasing exploitation and bypassing social security entitlements. great caution, freezing/reduction of wages/pensions and new privileges for companies are introduced in order to ensure the return of big capital. the eu's employment policy aims to replace full-time and fixed-term work with part-time and temporary work, while ignoring basic employment, wage and social security rights under the misleading lisbon headline of 'sustainable development and full employment'. the eight-hour day and collective agreements are under attack, and the hiring out of workers, a form of slave trade, unacceptably low wages and increasing profits for the plutocracy are being introduced. the millions of unemployed are now being joined by millions of underemployed. these policies have not solved and cannot solve the problem of unemployment, nor do they establish the rights to guarantee the right to full-time work and to stable employment, because the real causes lie in the mechanisms by which capitalism is governed. we support the workers' struggle to abolish these policies and demand a different, grassroots-oriented policy with more social rights and higher wages in line with modern demands.
in the case of the commission, the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial envelope for the enlarged union 2007-2013 was rejected because it did not meet the criteria for the enlarged union. these objectives are an expression of the fundamental choices of big business: the promotion of the anti-working-class projections and schemes of the lisbon process under the pretext of combating unemployment, the support for and massive expansion of a supranational and uncontrolled mechanism for the persecution of grassroots movements under the pretext of security and the strengthening and militarization of the eu under the pretext of combating terrorism. we condemn the efforts to limit the resources available for social and regional cohesion, however false these objectives may have proved to be, and to increase the resources for plans to wage war against and persecute the peoples of the eu and third countries. we are against the principle of national responsibility for the consequences of policies decided at community level being reflected in future eu funds, and we are against the people having to pay the price twice. the solution to the problems of the people of the member states of the european union is not a matter of a few dollars and cents, but the struggle of the workers for a radical change in the policies pursued by their governments in the european union, the struggle for the elections of the grassroots to prevail over those of big business.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report shows once again that the eu's regional policy has failed. there are still huge disparities in the development of several regions, while the outlook for the poorer member states is unfavourable. the purely statistical approach risks excluding many areas of the present member states from funding with enlargement. in greece, for example, four areas will not be financed under the fourth community support framework, while three others are at the border. these areas cover 75% of the population of the country and so far most of them have qualified as objective 1 areas with severe and growing social and economic problems which the proposed temporary transitional support will only exacerbate. greece is a typical example for another reason, namely the promotion and concentration of resources in certain areas, such as attica, which exacerbates the wider regional problem of urban overpopulation. at the same time, despite all the talk about support for remote areas, the eu continues to unjustifiably - and despite our repeated proposals - to exclude the aegean islands from special treatment for remote areas, despite their serious problems. "cohesion" and "rising levels of development" are in practice in contradiction with the policies that preach them, because these policies serve big capital. in practice, it can only create deviation, marginalization, unemployment and underdevelopment.
in the resolution on transatlantic relations, it is proposed that cooperation between the eu and the united states be strengthened by establishing a 'long-term common framework and a joint action plan', including in the military sector, where the main pretext is the 'fight against terrorism'. of course, there is also a desire to see this struggle carried out with respect for 'human rights', but there is no mention of the drastic measures taken to restrict individual rights. at a time when us aggression is more intense than ever, the resolution aims to silence all those, including greece, who insist on seeing the eu as a worthy opponent to the us and nato, by stressing that 'nato remains a fundamental guarantor of transatlantic stability and security' and that the esdp should be developed 'complementary to nato' and would lead to 'a substantial strengthening of nato'. although the resolution also proposes arms control, it is and will remain a resolution that is fully in line with the new imperialist order.
- doc. b3-0330/2003 by mr de gucht and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in iraq; the brutal interventions of the imperialist powers, which create conflict in every corner of the world, are a daily occurrence. the murder of the palestinian people continues. human rights are being trampled daily, while poverty and misery in both the third world and the developed countries are getting worse. the eu and other imperialist centres bear almost all the responsibility for this situation. despite the positive references in the report, on human rights it says that 'progress has been made, in particular, because of the commitment of the european union'. at the same time, the hysterical attitude of the eu and the us towards terrorism is supported, and there is no mention of the violation, under the pretext of combating terrorism, of fundamental democratic and social freedoms or of the countless violations by the us. only a few are mentioned without responsibility, with the exception of the prisoners in guantanamo bay. for these reasons, the members of the communist party of greece in parliament did not vote in favour of the report. we support the peoples who are fighting against the new order for their rights.
in the case of the turkish government, the european court of human rights in strasbourg has ruled that the trial of leyla zana and her three kurdish colleagues in the turkish parliament was a parody of the trial of the original trial, in which she was sentenced to 15 years in prison for so-called crimes of opinion. the new sentence against leyla zana and her three colleagues is a new insult to the european parliament, which awarded leyla zana the sakharov prize in 1995, an insult to the european court of human rights and an insult to european law and civilization. as long as leyla zana and her colleagues are imprisoned in turkey, as long as people are being sentenced for crimes of opinion, it is clear that any reform in turkey will collide with the deeply conservative state. we expect the commission, in the light of the report on turkey to be published before the end of the year, to intensify its efforts to secure the release of leyla zana and the amnesty of all prisoners imprisoned for crimes of opinion.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, as you know, after the fall of the berlin wall, the region of south-east europe was shaken by ethnic conflicts and armed violence which resulted in profound political, economic and social changes. in the report i have drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i present the situation of women in south-east europe as it has developed during the transitional period in relation to the previous regime. my report complements the reports on the union's relations with the countries of south-east europe and the progress of these countries under the stabilisation and association agreements. i intend to present a comprehensive picture of the position of women in a region with significant differences between countries, but also with great similarities in the problems they face. the report focuses mainly on the following areas: education and economic activity, participation in democratic institutions, violence against women and sexual exploitation, health and reproductive rights, trafficking in women and children. in most of the balkan countries, there has certainly been a considerable improvement in the situation of women over the last five years. however, the main problems remain and the issue of addressing them is not high on the political agenda of the countries in the region. in many areas change seems never to come, and where it does, it is very slow. the european union has also been involved in the process of developing a new policy on women's rights, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. it is characteristic that women from various minority groups, such as the roma, receive little or no state care. the report analyses the problems, giving specific examples of the weaknesses in each country nominally, in order to send a strong message to the governments of these countries to develop immediate actions and initiatives to combat discrimination against women and actively promote gender equality. in the field of education and the economy, the profound changes have also greatly diversified the positions and capacities of different generations of women. demographic trends today show that family life is no longer a primary life goal for women, who are more interested in their financial independence and professional development, thus investing more time and energy in education. in many countries in the region, such as greece, the majority of university students are women. in terms of working life, women are more often employees, i.e. employed in the tertiary sector, in services, and less often employers than men, and they are also less likely to be selfemployed. in sectors where women are predominantly employed, wages are usually low and with little prospect of development. i also note the high rates of unemployment and poverty among women in the balkans. the situation regarding women's participation in political decision-making is rather disappointing for most countries, but there is a continuing trend towards an increase in this participation. one of the main similarities between countries in the field of policy is the rapid expansion of non-governmental organisations active in women's rights and making a significant contribution to strengthening women's position in employment and politics. it should be noted, however, that compared to other regions of europe such as central europe, the balkan countries have the highest level of exclusion of women from political decision-making positions. on women's health and reproductive rights, i would stress that particularly stressful living conditions, the survival economy based on the intensive exploitation of women's human resources, the increase in violence against women and the fact that in many countries health care systems have collapsed, put women's health at real risk. in the balkan countries too, domestic violence is often a problem of dramatic proportions, but mainly a problem of inadequate recognition and response. this problem, along with sex trafficking, has taken on explosive proportions. however, across the region there is a lack of serious and systematic statistics on the problem, a lack of adequate legislation, monitoring and guidance, and a lack of financial and psychological support for victims. as regards the trafficking of women, south-eastern europe in general has been identified in recent years as a region where trafficking networks operate almost unhindered. the sex trade thrives because it's economically viable, it's a key part of the desire economy and part of the consumer society. the trafficking in persons in the region is in fact an industry, made up of small and large-scale enterprises, local and international networks. the industry has political support and financial resources in the countries of origin, transit and destination in the form of corrupt officials, and i would like to cite as a typical example the sex slavery scandal in montenegro, where a moldovan woman, a victim of human trafficking, identified well-known politicians as clients or involved in the trafficking of white flesh. i should also point out that the peacekeeping forces in the region have increased this phenomenon. in conclusion, i would like to say that the path to economic and social development in south-east europe and respect for women's rights is certainly through their integration into european structures, and i would like to recall the thessaloniki european council in june 2003, which stressed its support for the european perspective of the western balkan countries. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. the role of women in the reconciliation, peaceful coexistence and development of the countries of south-east europe should be assessed by the european union and strengthened in every way.
commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the adoption of the karamanou report on women in south-east europe and the many valuable observations and proposals which it contains. in its relations with the countries of south-east europe the eu is striving to promote stability, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and minority rights, including of course gender equality. the commission pays the utmost attention to ensuring that gender issues are integrated into the mainstream of all european community assistance programmes as a cross-cutting issue. it is nevertheless clear that in a number of countries the situation is far from ideal and is a problem of great political importance. the thessaloniki agenda for the western balkans as endorsed by the eu-western balkans summit in june 2003 specifically states that support for activities to defend women's rights and improve their situation should be better reflected in eu policies towards the region. involvement of non-governmental organisations, civil society and local authorities in eu-supported policies and activities is of paramount importance. regarding trafficking in human beings, in the thessaloniki agenda the eu also urges the countries of the region to act both domestically and regionally in line with the principles of the eu and proposals contained in the brussels declaration of september 2002. the eu assigns high priority to victim assistance, training programmes for competent bodies, exchange of information, public awareness, and strategy development. in this context, coordination of all international actors is essential. most recently the commission has pointed out in its 2004 report on the stablisation and association process for south-east europe that gender is insufficiently ensured and domestic violence remains a problem in several countries. although improvements have been made in certain countries on issues such as equal salaries, equal treatment of men and women concerning employment, training, career advancement and working conditions, and women's participation in government, progress is generally slow and insufficient. under the regional cards programme for 2002, the commission published an open call for submission of proposals for support for the rule of law, good governance, public accountability and freedom of opinion. promoting the equal participation of men and women in the democratisation process was one of the priorities of the card stabilisation programme for 2002. of the twenty-two projects selected for funding which are ongoing until 2005, one is funding a women's leadership programme and another a project on women in media. the rest relate to work with various representatives of civil society to improve the access of citizens more generally to the democratic process. with regard to the 2003 cards regional programme on democratic stabilisation, an open call for submissions was issued recently and the deadline for receiving proposals is 28 april. while this programme does not specifically target women, it supports equality of men and women and the participation of diverse civil society groups and associations at local grassroots level in the process of strengthening democratic structures. furthermore, an additional call for proposals under the 2003 cards regional programme is due to be issued soon. the programme proposes to strengthen capacities of civil society network associations in order to deliver better services to their member organisations. this constitutes a logical continuation of the 2002 initiatives and we expect and hope that women's associations will submit sound proposals in response to this call. finally, a new cards multiannual programming cycle is currently under preparation and the suggestions in the karamanou report will be duly taken into account in the context of this exercise. as pointed out in the report, problems have also occurred and still exist in certain candidate countries. in order to address this situation, from 1999 to 2003 gender equality projects under the phare national programme and meda totalled more than eur 13 million. during the same period, participation by the candidate countries in the community programmes involved close to eur 1 million and gender equality projects financed under civil society programmes totalled eur 2.5 million. once they are members of the european union, these states will obviously be subject to the same obligations and benefit from the same instruments as other member states. issues related to gender equality and the improvement of women's employment are raised in the regular reports on bulgaria, romania and turkey. this matter is being dealt with in the negotiations on the union's social acquis for the first two countries. furthermore, as pointed out by the honourable member, more that 20 projects have been financed for civil society actions to improve women's conditions. recent legislation adopted in the three countries is improving the legal situation of women and the commission is following the implementation of this legislation very closely.
the balkans are a region of vital importance to the european union. my political group has supported their european orientation and all the development and cooperation procedures that have been put in place. historical experience and everyday life in the european union demonstrate that development and prosperity cannot take place without democracy, without respect for human rights and special attention to women's rights, without the exploitation of human resources of both sexes, without a vibrant civil society. i would therefore like to welcome the initiative taken by mrs karamanou to draw up a report on women's rights in the balkans. in the context of the monitoring of the stabilisation and association agreements, the committee on women's rights has drawn up a number of opinions - i had the honour of being the author - in which it stresses the problems facing women in the balkans and the need to integrate equality into all policies. the seriousness of the issues, as the rapporteur has pointed out in her report, and the challenge that the tackling of these issues poses to the development of the region and to good relations of cooperation with the european union, deserve a special report. i welcome the opportunity and the statement by commissioner nielson to include in the new cards programme many of the proposals contained in her report. in conclusion, i would like to say that we are both responsible for this challenge. we as the european union must put all the mechanisms and possibilities in place for a good cooperation approach with the balkans, but the balkan countries must also take seriously the fact that democracy and quality are the best guarantees for their development and for their integration into the european union.
mr president, commissioner, there is often confirmation in the political sphere that small policies, when implemented, produce big results and large policies, when announced but not implemented, produce nothing. in this particular case, the ottawa convention, which was signed seven years ago and has a very short period of application, has proved its applicability and effectiveness, so it is a highly successful policy. the choice of nairobi as the first conference to review this convention is particularly symbolic, because we all know that sub-saharan africa is one of the regions with the highest concentration of antipersonnel mines, since mines are considered the weapon of the poor. i take this opportunity to note that my country, which several years ago remained outside this convention, has recently, under the leadership of then foreign minister george papandreou, agreed to the convention and ratified and implemented it in relation to its border with turkey, where for reasons we all understand there was a cold front of opposition. the ottawa convention has the ultimate objective of overcoming the landmine problem through coordinated action against landmines on an international scale within the next 10 to 15 years. this remains a challenge, as over 60 countries report a problem with this issue, and 20 of them are very seriously affected. the european experience itself since the end of the cold war, and the recent experience in the balkans, shows that this is a major problem on our continent. of course, in asia, africa and latin america, where hundreds of millions of mines are laid every day, undermining health and economic development, the problem is even greater. the united nations plays the central role in organising and coordinating international efforts, with the european union providing the largest contribution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has taken many initiatives since 1992 to ban this deadly weapon, which destroys lives and prevents economic development. but our greatest contribution has been to the implementation of these programmes in many, many parts of the world. in afghanistan, iraq, the balkans, in dozens of countries where non-governmental and governmental organizations are engaged in the removal of antipersonnel mines. but beyond the clearing of mines, they must do much more for education, for research, for general awareness of the danger and its prevention. the nairobi meeting provides a great opportunity to implement all the aspects of the ottawa convention which have not been implemented in any way because of some technical deficiencies, to complete the convention, to complete it and to give the world a new convention, albeit of small size, but of great effectiveness for peace and security in the developing and especially poor areas of the world.
mr president, i must congratulate the organisers of today's debate on their ingenuity. finding no other pretext to stir up their slander against the cuban people, they remembered the anniversary of the court decisions that convicted agents of american imperialism and decided to celebrate the birthday. as much as you may shout, dear colleagues, against socialist cuba, you cannot deny the fact that cuba is the only free country in the americas, the only country where the people have taken power into their own hands. that's why it's withstood blockades, threats and invasions. that is why the united states of america and the european union want to overthrow the cuban revolution. so if you really care about the cuban people and human rights, organize a discussion about the long-term blockade of cuba or the five cuban patriots rotting in miami prisons, unable to even see their families because they were acting against the terrorism that is hitting their country.
commission. mr president, this is clearly an issue on which this parliament likes to be divided. this reflects political reality, but i have one plea. i direct it to mrs bergaz conesa who highlighted cuba's fine performance in areas such as health, sports and education. that is fine, but i would add, 'and so what'? it should be possible, without being misunderstood, to discuss the issue of human rights on its own merits, not just in cuba, but everywhere. (applause) it is as if this is a sort of balancing game, a sort of political scoreboard relating to the totality of cuba's situation, character and state of mind politically. this is not the case. as i understand it, this is about expressing concern – to put it mildly – on human rights issues there, and as friends of that nation we in europe are entitled to do that here without being seen as escalating or creating even more problems than we have already. the commission shares parliament's concern about the human rights situation in cuba. we need to see progress on democracy and the opening-up and normalising of political life, especially now, one year after the mass detention of dissidents. in our analysis things have not improved. the eu continually follows the situation of political prisoners through the human rights working group in havana and through contacts with family members of those imprisoned. last february, the wives and mothers of the political prisoners expressed their appreciation to the european institutions for the support they give. the european union intends to continue to raise the cases of prisoners of conscience with the cuban authorities and to exert the pressure we can for real democratic reform and respect for human rights in cuba. the recent declaration by the council presidency, congratulating the cuban journalist raúl rivero on the award of the word press freedom prize from unesco, called again on the cuban authorities to release all the imprisoned dissidents without delay. the member states supported the recent resolution on cuba at the un human rights commission, lamenting the sentencing of political dissidents and journalists last year and expressing hope that the government of cuba will take measures to promote the full development of democratic institutions and civil liberties. the european union considers dialogue with havana important to promote political, economic and civil rights reforms. however, positive moves by cuba on its political prisoners are needed. if cuba took concrete steps to improve the human rights situation, i am sure that the european union would immediately respond. we regret the current situation. we not only see scope for improvement, we also see the need for improvement. the commission supports parliament's initiative to invite oswaldo payá. our delegation in havana is in regular contact with him and is trying to facilitate the visit. finally, despite cuban decisions which impede our development cooperation activities, the commission remains willing to provide aid to promote democracy and improve living standards for ordinary cubans. we regret the lower level of activity in what we are doing together for the time being and, without wanting to create further political tension, we hope and work for a normalisation of the situation. (applause)
mr president, i asked for the floor on a personal basis because the position of mr posselt, who does not bother to listen to me when i bothered to listen to him when he spoke, went beyond the bounds of a political debate. i can accept any political argument as a response to political arguments that i have put forward. but i cannot under any circumstances accept the revanchism, the excommunications and the witch-hunt.
mr president, commissioner, the hosting of the 2004 olympic games in their homeland, greece, is a very good opportunity to highlight the humanitarian values associated with the spirit of 'olympism' and the letter of the olympic charter, which emphasises respect for universal fundamental human rights. in view of the serious violations of the rights of workers, including many women and children, in the production of sportswear and footwear, we call on the european commission to take the initiative and demand that the sportswear industries and their world federation apply the rules of the international labour organisation. the commission also needs to work with the international olympic committee to ensure that the international olympic committee includes respect for internationally accepted workers' rights in the olympic charter and code of conduct. we also call on the international olympic committee to require that its contracts with sponsors and commercial companies include internationally recognised labour standards and fundamental rights, i.e. that all products bearing the ioc mark must be manufactured in accordance with the rules of the international labour organisation. i would also like to stress, commissioner, the importance of an information and awareness campaign for europeans ahead of the 2004 olympic games.
mr president, commissioner, ethnic and religious violence in nigeria has been the subject of our parliament's attention on countless occasions. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, which i have the honour of chairing, has repeatedly intervened and denounced the revival of religious hatred in nigeria, particularly against women, through the application of islamic law, sharia, which even provides for sentences of stoning for adultery, and this goes beyond the laws and the constitution of nigeria, but also beyond the cotonou agreement and the clauses on respect for human rights and women's rights. it seems, commissioner, that the nigerian government either does not have the power or the political will to enforce the 1999 constitution and laws in the country. the recent fundamentalist violence and the outbreak of religious violence in plateau state, which has claimed the lives of 1,500 people and destroyed 173 churches, is the culmination of a series of bloody events, with islamist extremists at the forefront. i am of the opinion that the european commission should use its power and international prestige to contribute more actively to strengthening security, ending violence and promoting respect for religious freedom and basic human rights in nigeria. we need to work more closely with the nigerian government and president obasanjo to bring the constitution and the laws into force.
- mrs maes, please remove the flags you have set out your point of view. the rules of procedure contain very clear rules on this, so please respect them.
- this meeting is adjourned. the general debate on the future of the enlarged union will resume at 3 p.m. the written declaration (article 120)
madam president, i believe that enlargement must be primarily a process of re-positioning and renewing the objective of a europe of democracy, solidarity and peace. the case of cyprus, a new member of the union but with an unresolved political problem, is a typical case of achieving this objective. the european union, while respecting the result of the referendum and implementing the act of accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union, must intensify its efforts to find a solution for the reunification of the island and the rapprochement of the two communities, a solution of a bicommunal bi-zonal federation, without foreign troops and permanent mediators. the european union is not only a force for bringing about a better future for the people of europe, but also a framework for resolving disputes, which can guarantee the application of international law and at the same time respect for the human and democratic rights of its people. secondly, let us not forget that the solution of the cyprus problem will contribute to the cause of security, stability and peace in the wider middle east region, which is being severely tested following the military invasion of iraq by the united states and the continuing sharon policy of denying respect for the rights of the palestinian people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a tendency for many people to regard certain events in which they are involved as historical or unrepeatable, because that is how they regard the period in question. but over time, evolution itself, history itself, delineates things, putting facts in their true dimensions, when evolution itself confirms or cancels them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we often talk in terms of the future, confronting ideologies that have either collapsed or been overcome, and we are led to useless pastologies. but a united europe must be built on the basis of a vision of the future with positive prospects, based on the principles of humanism, freedom, diversity, pluralism and peace. a few years ago, our present partners were our neighbours, with all the peculiarities and the historical and political burden of another era. today we are gaining new neighbours, with a positive attitude, with expectations of hope for the european union, both from citizens and politicians. the accession of the ten countries to the union does not mean that all the individual problems have been solved automatically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but all have launched their solutions within the enabling environment. the ten countries have enormous potential. the baltic states and the countries of the former central and eastern europe in the other europe, malta in africa and the mediterranean, cyprus in the eastern mediterranean and beyond. we are looking forward to bulgaria, romania and later croatia in a few years. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. and for the beloved and sorrowful cyprus, the golden green leaf thrown into the sea, the island of aphrodite, we all welcome her, as i do, as a greek! i hope, like the others who supported the annan plan, and the european parliament, that it will help to bring about positive developments in the reunification of the island. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the same applies to malta, for which i was the shadow rapporteur. welcome to the ten! and again, as a greek, welcome to my beloved cyprus!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is a good time to look at our economic policy from a broader perspective, to look at the past of europe of 15 and at the future of europe of 25. the first key point to note is that in the european union we do not have a legal basis for a common, truly common economic policy because the union has no competence to formulate, it has only the competence to coordinate the economic policies of the member states. this fragmentation of economic policy is not something that can be attributed to the conditions of globalization that we are living in today. the second point is that we need a major strategic initiative capable of mobilizing the forces of the european economy. the third point is that, in addition to the grand strategic initiative, the european economy needs a grand strategic objective. the accession of our ten new member states offers the opportunity for a major initiative which can inspire our efforts. the economies of eastern europe can become the driving force of the new european economy, if we, the old europe, can find the courage and the inspiration to emulate the united states of america and mark the end of the cold war with a kind of marshall plan for eastern europe, as the united states did at the end of the second world war. as for the great objective, it was given to us by the draft of the new european constitution which, for the first time in the history of the treaties, placed full employment in the basic article 3 of the union's objectives, while rejecting the european central bank's demand for equal treatment of the objective of price stability. the last point is important and must be respected, but it is not more important, it is never more important than the objective of full employment, which was a component of the old european model and, unfortunately, i did not hear, commissioner, although i have followed you carefully, mention full employment in the review of the european model. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is fully reflected in the social dimension.
mr president, i would first like to welcome today's first decision by the enlarged european parliament, which rejected the council's attempt to bring back the issue of concluding an agreement on the processing and transfer of european passengers' personal data by airlines to the us department of homeland security. the question of freedom and security in the europe of 25 which we are discussing today is directly linked, commissioner, to the security of the olympic games which are being held this summer in greece. the safety of the games has been a constant headache since ancient times, and the truce was the most serious part of the preparation for the athletes and spectators to arrive safely at olympia. i believe, as romantic as it sounds, that promoting the idea of a ceasefire in the modern age and educating people in peaceful coexistence would cost much less and have more lasting effects than strengthening repressive forces and using military means. for the europe of 25, the 2004 olympics are a golden opportunity to promote the idea of the armistice, that is, the ideals of peace, cooperation, dialogue and the rejection of violence as a means of resolving disputes, on a global scale. unfortunately, the reality of the modern world speaks of an intensity of blind violence, hatred and terrorism. the publication of photographs of torture and humiliation of prisoners in iraq shows the extent of the brutality and barbarity that people can be subjected to when they are involved in wars and acts of violence. but it also shows the degree of freedom of the press that we have achieved and must preserve. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a european union which is not based on the united nations, but on the united nations. will political leaders realise that a different strategy is needed to counter terrorism and strengthen security? the european union of 25 must offer an alternative, a new vision and answer the crucial question: can there be security on a planet with enormous inequalities in social and economic development and in the distribution of the goods of democracy, science and technology? the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of a europe of peace and security, but also of a europe of peace and security. we look forward to the new european constitution being adopted soon and to the democratic framework that will strengthen fundamental freedoms and security in europe and the world. finally, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate you on the excellent work you are doing as commissioner in promoting the common area of freedom, security and justice in the european union, a project which has unfortunately proved to be much more difficult than the creation of the single market and the common currency.
, in writing. the decisions, assessments and conclusions of the eu summit on 17/18 june are contrary to the interests of the workers of the peoples of europe, who by voting or abstaining in the european elections on 13 june expressed their condemnation of the eu and its policy. the 'euro-constitution' adopted by the summit incorporates the previous treaties guaranteeing the freedom of capital and the overthrow of the conquests and rights of the working class and the popular strata. it is the supreme institutional shield of the dictatorship of the european monopolies. the us military doctrine of "preventive war" against a country or countries, under the pretext of fighting terrorism, is adopted, thus overturning the basic principles of international law enshrined in the un charter. it is militarising the eu which supports nato and cooperates with it. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, in which it calls on the european union to take action to prevent the further spread of the war in the region and to ensure that the peace process in the region is not disrupted. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the community, and the commission has been asked to take a decision on the future of the community. the working class and the people of europe must strengthen resistance, disobedience and indiscipline in the eu, fighting for the abolition of the euro-constitution and the disintegration of the eu.
mr president, if lisbon has taught us anything, it is that strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy, of business, is not enough to create jobs, social cohesion and protect the environment. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which is a very important step in the process of european integration. the dutch presidency's programme seems to ignore them. it proposes a series of measures to reduce administrative controls on the market, reduce costs, even hinting at an increase in working hours, but makes no mention of social sustainability. the dutch presidency is in a sense suggesting that the liberalisation of the market will automatically lead to employment. but this is precisely the philosophy that lisbon rejects, and that is why it puts emphasis on the rest. we therefore want to hear from the dutch presidency specific policies for full employment and sustainable growth: simple things. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and spirits, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very good one. but we can't have it both ways! for us, 1.24% of gdp is the minimum threshold for financing the new european union. as regards immigration - if i understand the dutch presidency correctly - it can be treated primarily as a police matter and immigrants as potential criminals! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship. but the emphasis on policing instead of integration into the curriculum is particularly troubling: it's a vicious cycle that will bring about racism and crime. finally, as regards terrorism: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. we in greece, with the hosting of the 2004 olympic games, live with this problem every day and try to find the right balance. the dutch presidency should do the same and stop focusing solely on policing.
in writing. the dutch presidency's policy statements are a challenge to the workers and peoples of the eu. the faster and more effective promotion of capitalist restructuring, changes in the labour market and working hours, the further privatisation of public services, the pressure for further pension cuts and the shrinking of public insurance systems, the persistence of the lisbon strategy and the anti-people policy in general, are all further proof that the eu is in the exclusive service of big capital. the formulation of the tampere strategy phase and the promotion of new measures to repress the popular movement that brutally violate individual and social freedoms, such as the workers' dossier, the monitoring of all telecommunications, the delivery of data to the us, the strengthening of the prosecution and intelligence authorities under the pretext of terrorism, are strongly reacted by the workers and the legal world. the strengthening of the mercenary eurasian army, its decisive presence in the balkans, the creation of direct intervention units and the eu's cooperation with the usa in defending the new order and imperialist interests are in contradiction with the will of the peoples for peace and social progress. the kke meps condemn this policy and support and join the struggles of the workers' and people's movement against these measures.
the european union, mr president, needs to strengthen its institutional and democratic functioning over the next five years. it needs to implement an effective development policy aimed at full employment, guaranteeing social rights and regional and social cohesion. it needs to have its own unified, strong voice in the world as a force for peace and cooperation. mr barroso, mr president-elect of the european commission, your policy as prime minister and your statements yesterday before the european parliament did not convince us that you could meet these priorities. when you came to the socialist group last week, you told us that you were not a technocrate but a politician making political choices. we are also politically critical of the economic policies of your government which have led to a dramatic reduction in development and social spending and to adverse economic effects in your country. politically, we judge your stance on the iraq war, your identification with the united states' choices and the famous meeting of the azores. politically, we judge your choice to support a war without a united nations mandate and to cause division within the european union. we also politically judge the lack of self-criticism in your speech today, which has now been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, that there were no weapons of mass destruction in iraq. the question i would like to ask you, mr president-elect, is how do you think you will respond to these major priorities of the european union through general declarations, when your policy - all these years - has consistently served different views. we believe that the vote on the appointment of the president of the european commission is a political vote, a vote on the european priorities we are setting for the coming years. and that's why we're not convinced by your political statements and we're negative to your candidacy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome mr barroso as a dynamic representative of the europe we all envision for the 21st century. a europe whose main objective is to meet the aspirations of the peoples, bringing together different countries in a common ambitious future, in which there must be smooth cooperation between the 25 countries today, and later, most of the members after their accession to the european union. we welcome his assurance that the confidence of european citizens in europe and its functioning will need to be strengthened. the aim of all of us must be to ensure that europe is not an abstract concept but that it is experienced by the citizens and expresses them. after enlargement, the primary objective of the european union is to ratify the constitutional treaty which will confirm the consensus of the peoples for a europe in a federal form. the european union must also create the conditions for moving more rapidly towards a single foreign and security policy. in this new era, european citizens demand support for diversity and at the same time participation in an even more democratic future that should offer a sense of security and prosperity. we all share the conviction that democracy is strengthened by criticism, and i am sure that mr barroso will accept this, with our support. the lisbon process involves, alongside development, the enhancement of knowledge and technology. together with social cohesion, environmental sustainability and strengthening europe through the creation of working conditions and equal opportunities. we shall see how exactly these are observed. we shall also be monitoring the emphasis, which we are sure will be placed on dialogue between cultures. we believe that mr barroso will certainly be the leader of the european commission. however, his familiarity with the issues of the european south undoubtedly makes him aware of the problems facing these countries. we will help to establish a constructive relationship between parliament and the president of the commission to ensure constructive cooperation between the two institutions. i am convinced of mr barroso's abilities, but also of his awareness of the enormous responsibility he is taking on. that's why i wish him luck.
mr president, mr barroso, as a left-wing mep i will vote against you! i would like to see a europe that does not play the role of 'delivery' to mr bush, as you did in the azores. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. as a greek mep, i would like to thank you for hosting the last football championship in portugal, congratulate you on the dignity with which you accepted the result of the final between greece and portugal and wish you the same dignity in dealing with the european commission's rejection of the actions of the european parliament. as a greek left-wing mep, i would like to invite you to athens for the olympic and paralympic games. my group is organising a meeting for disabled people on 24 september. we are waiting for you there to tell us what you intend to do and whether you will implement a community directive. you'll be perfectly safe, because you'll be watched by thousands of cameras, including nato. mr barroso, we are voting against you and we are waiting for you in athens!
, in writing. the unanimous choice of the conservative portuguese prime minister, mr barroso, by both the conservative and the 'socialist' leaders of the eu member states, for the post of president of the european commission, did not come out of nowhere, nor did it surprise the kke. it is a sign of the eu's reconciliation with the us, of the closure of any differences over the spoils of the invasion of iraq, of the restoration in the eyes of the peoples of the dirty imperialist war, of the eu's greater involvement in the planning and interventions required by the 'new order of things'; the european union must speed up the implementation of the anti-working class measures required by the eu monopolies (sweeping privatisations, the dismantling of what remains of the acquis in the fields of wages, pensions, health, education, welfare, the right to work, etc.); the imposition on the peoples of the eu of a false-written euro-constitution which will institutionally enshrine the militaristic, authoritarian and anti-working class character of the eu. the kke will contribute with all its strength to the development of the struggles of both the greek and the other peoples of the eu to overturn the anti-people policies that the election of the new president of the european commission signifies. thousands of workers in greece are being fired with a green light from the eu and the governments that support it. the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, after the highly successful organization of the athens 2004 olympic games, my country, greece, will host from 17 to 28 september the world's largest sporting event for athletes with disabilities, the paralympic games. there will be 145 countries, 4,000 athletes, 2,000 of their escorts, 3,000 representatives of the press. for the first time in history we have the same organizing committee for both the olympic and paralympic games and this means correct forecasts for the organization and the economy. also, for the first time in the history of the paralympic games, the greek government long ago decided to contribute €55.8 million, which relieved each country, rich or poor, of the obligation to pay the required fee for the participation of its athletes. even before the first paralympic games were held in 1960, they were distinguished by ... (applause) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on this occasion i would like to express to the house our deepest sorrow and grief at the loss of the patriarch of alexandria and all africa, peter, who along with the 17 members of his delegation and crew were lost in the tragic plane crash last saturday, an accident to which you referred and for which we thank you. it should be mentioned that the late patriarch was indeed a young and enlightened patriarch and the loss will be particularly felt.
mr president, at the beginning of today's sitting the european parliament adopted your proposal that the plenary should observe a minute's silence for the victims of beslan tomorrow. it is a matter of great surprise that we have not heard a word about the children of palestine or the children of iraq. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time the government of ariel sharon is escalating its murderous attacks with ground and air strikes by the israeli army in the gaza strip, with dozens of palestinians killed and wounded. they're destroying homes and infrastructure. the phrasal international reactions to these murderous raids by the israeli army are hypocritical and have no practical impact since they are not accompanied by measures against israel to stop the genocide of the palestinian people and to demolish the wall of shame. on the contrary, the equation of victims and victims, the characterization of the murders as a right of defence, not only exonerates the israeli government but also undermines it. we believe that practical political and other measures must be taken immediately to force the israeli government to stop the slaughter of the palestinian people, in order to create the conditions for an independent palestine.
mr president, of course all that we have heard is very important. the events of the last few days with the opening of the olympic games in athens, which were crowned with great success, are also important. today i am bringing up a subject which concerns us all. it is clearly the question of doping, this scourge of sport which certainly affects the youth of the whole world. i would therefore propose that, on the basis of this amendment which we are going to table, a resolution be tabled on the question of anti-doping, which concerns the measures which the european union and all of us must take to combat this scourge.
mr president, the commissioner has told us a sinful story. four years a ghost ship with forged papers violates all the rules, all the directives, all the international treaties and there is no possibility of applying the law and the law. they're kicking it out of algeria, it's going to turkey. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we are facing a major ecological disaster and a major failure on the part of the european commission to put into practice what it rightly advocates. it is time to stop talking and start acting. i am asking on behalf of my political group, and as a member of the committee on the environment, that the commission finally apply the 'polluter pays' principle not only to those who owned the ship, but also to those who owned the product, the goods, and to all those involved in this case. and the main political conclusion, if we are to be honest, is that we must finally stop the rich industrial north from using the poorer countries of the south as a big warehouse and a tank to illegally place toxic waste. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to combat it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, the sinking of the ulla, a ship carrying toxic waste between spain, algeria and turkey, and the new ecological disaster that has affected the fisheries food chain, confirm what we have been saying for years in the european parliament: that the management of toxic waste and the pollution of the marine environment cannot be dealt with only by criminal law, since everything is still subject to the safeguarding and increasing of the profits of big capital that controls the sources of energy and production and of the shipowners who control the means of transport. who, after this long-foretold accident, after the ship had been moored for four years in the port of alexandria, would dare to claim again, as reports and experts have at times loudly claimed, that 80% of accidents are due to the human factor? we have always denounced these claims as false, unscientific, suspect, since they try to cover up the uncontrolled transport of toxic and nuclear waste by the large monopoly industrial units by covering up for governments, state authorities and shipping companies while concealing the negative consequences of the old fleet and the inadequate inspections of ships. the initiatives taken so far by the european union have had the sole aim of appeasing public anger by concealing responsibility and promoting the interests of capital. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2005 budget is the expression of the european union's authoritarian anti-worker policy aimed at safeguarding and increasing the profits of big business. it reinforces the reactionary character and the militarization of the european union. this is done by further drastic cuts in social benefits and the transfer of funds to strengthen the military arm of the european union. it is anti-people, since it is focused on promoting the lisbon strategy, intensifying the attack on the social and labour rights of workers. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it does not take account of the needs arising from enlargement to ten countries and calls on workers, women, young people, small and medium-sized farmers, professionals and artisans, the lower classes in the less developed regions and in the twenty-five countries to pay the price for creating an attractive business environment for capital. the social fund ceiling that many profess to have is proving to be a myth for workers. the social budget has a dynamic character, but it strengthens the economically stronger, big capital and the means and mechanisms of suppression of the struggles of the economically weaker, the working people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission madam president, i share the concern of the honourable member. indeed, doping is killing the sport. it must be remembered, however, that in the field of anti-doping we only exercise community competence in a subsidiary way: the commission can therefore only act to supplement and strengthen the action taken by sports organisations and the member states. but we did it anyway. in 1999, the commission adopted a community support plan for the fight against doping and indicated possible ways of combating it. i must say that the european parliament has fully supported the commission, while there has been little or no reaction from the council, despite which we have launched concrete actions in support of the anti-doping fight, analytical actions, for example on the situation of young people in the gymnasiums - catastrophic - on the socio-economic factors of doping, on the actions to be taken to protect young people. at the same time, we have helped the member states to build, together with the sports world and the federations, the world anti-doping agency. our practical contribution to this world anti-doping agency has been the training of anti-doping controllers to monitor athletes. in the field of health programmes, too, actions have been undertaken to stimulate the efforts of the member states in the field of prevention of drug use and abuse among young people. of course, the area of prevention is also extremely important and in this context i would like to inform you that 2004 has been declared the 'european year of education through sport'. throughout the year, thousands of projects were set up with schools, sports federations and local and regional authorities to raise awareness among young people of the dangers of doping and to encourage them to respect the principle of fair play in sport. of course, as long as there is no clear and precise legal basis, we will be unable to do more. however, we have worked on the development of a legal basis. since my appointment as commissioner responsible for sport in 1999, i have regularly convened an informal council of ministers for sport - there could be no formal council - to bring them together to work towards this. i have also regularly met with european sports federations to encourage them to work together to combat the scourge of doping. finally, the convention has crowned all this work by giving us its support and by proposing an article in the constitutional treaty which provides that the union's action must aim in particular at protecting the physical and moral integrity of young people, especially young sportsmen. once the treaty is adopted, we will have a real legal basis and formal meetings of sports ministers can take place and concrete action can be taken in this direction. we are all looking forward to the new treaty.
the situation with the measures mentioned has not only not improved but has worsened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. when a sports team is a business, it and its sponsors aim to increase profits and, therefore, the athlete's victory at all costs is an aim to maximize profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting heritage is protected. i would therefore like to ask you whether you intend to take measures to ensure that sport is a genuine social good and that it is not driven by the logic of profit and sponsorship. are you willing to cut the umbilical cord between sports and business? that's the big question.
commission madam president, i will try to extract a question from a statement, and i will say that i agree with the honourable member that doping is a scourge. i do not agree with two of his statements. first, it argues that there is a clear difference between amateur and professional sport. unfortunately, our studies have revealed that amateur sports are also affected by this phenomenon. so we must not only fight doping in professional sports but also in amateur sports and we must be concerned about public health, since doping is becoming a real public health problem. the second statement by the honourable member which i dispute is the idea that, despite all the measures implemented, the situation has not only not improved, but has on the contrary worsened. well, the answer is very simple: as long as we deny the existence of doping and the need for controls, offenders will not be worried. now that everyone admits that doping is everywhere and we have set up controls with the international olympic committee and the world anti-doping agency, we obviously catch those who dop and that's a good thing, because the more we catch, the fewer will take the risk of doping, and the more we send a positive signal that "no, doping will not pass" and that a really, really fierce fight is being waged against this scourge that is killing the sport.
commission madam president, as i have just explained, the european year of education through sport was created because a european year of sport could not be created without a legal basis to finance it. i therefore had to move the problem to education as a legal basis, so that i could take concrete action in the field of sport and the protection of young athletes. so what can we do when the treaty comes into force? well, we can take direct action on sports. firstly, there will be a council of ministers for sport which will be empowered to make proposals in conjunction with the commission. the commission itself will be able to propose action programmes, financed of course by the european union, to help sports federations, governments, educators, clubs to move forward. so this is gonna change everything. i believe that everything that has been done so far has been in preparation for this new treaty, but we will need a genuine legal basis to be able to make a policy that is more solid, more visible. we have done as much as we can and more than we can do, given the possibilities.
i note with interest, commissioner, that in your original statement you pointed out that despite the steps taken, there is not a sufficient legal basis for doing more. so i ask you specifically: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. does the commission intend, even after two and a half years, to promote such a community directive?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, as the honourable member knows, all industries and all the elements in the chain have an obligation to label and indicate the presence of genetically modified organisms in the composition. fraud may occur, but it will be up to the various authorities in the european union to ensure that it does not. the important thing is that the authorization of a genetically modified organism should be accompanied by the possibility of its traceability, that is, that there are systems which allow its detection, if it is incorporated into any product. we all know that there is fraud in the use of hormones, for example. as a former minister of agriculture, i can tell you that we must be very vigilant and vigilant to prevent such fraud and to prosecute it if it occurs. the important thing is that the consumer can make a choice. as regards the second point, you speak of unfair competition with regard to farmers. unfortunately, this is not unfair competition. if competition is unfair, it will be in respect of the traditional varieties of the various products. the unfair competition that nk 302 may have to face is competition with the traditional maize varieties that have been grown in europe and throughout the world. farmers may or may not use it. they have the opportunity to use any of the varieties. and the competition, if there is any unfair competition, will be between the lab varieties and the natural ones. i believe that there is also a responsibility on the part of citizens and politicians. we have in our hands the choice of what we want: traditional varieties or new laboratory varieties. it is the free choice of consumers themselves that will ultimately decide how this issue develops.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. after that, the commission decided that one in three wanted it. do you think that you could revise the decision-making process for this european legislation so that there is more democracy? and the second question: in denmark and germany, measures have already been taken to protect farmers who grow organically and conventionally against the risk of contamination by mutants. are you thinking of promoting similar measures at european level?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i am a full-fledged commissioner and i intend to carry out all my responsibilities until the last day. i do not care if there is a month and a half left in the mandate; i will present what i consider appropriate to present if it is ripe for it. not because i'm leaving i'm going to stop filing anything and i'm going to leave unfinished business for the next one. i have been engaged, and this parliament has given me its confidence, until 1 november. and until november 1st, i intend to fully exercise my responsibilities. secondly, if there is any declaration of war, it will be the declaration of war by some sectors. i have no declaration of war with anyone. on the contrary, what i have maintained over all these years is a series of debates. there has indeed been a small mistake: the last meeting was in rotterdam. in a port city, in fact, and i met there with all the representatives of the port unions. it's true that they gave me, very civilized and very proper, some sign and some poster asking me to leave and things like that, which were less kind, i know. but we were discussing all the points. and i'm not at war with anyone. the only thing i have is a clear commitment to maritime transport and i am also talking about maritime cabotage. are we capable of making the truck i was referring to, or the trailer in another transport mode, move as freely as possible and at the lowest possible cost in that transport and that transfer in the port area at genuinely justified and not artificial costs such as the one i have mentioned? i would also point out the case of the captain who makes the same journey once or twice a week and enters his ship once or twice a week in the same port: does he or does he not know all the problems of the ship's - his ship's - entry into that port, at least as well as any pilot when he has been doing so for a season? these are the issues we must tackle and if we are talking about boosting maritime traffic, we must bear in mind that this must be incorporated. i'm not against anyone, i'm for. i am in favour of port activity, of the wealth in ports, of the development of cities and port environments and in favour of activity in the european economy and of competitiveness and living conditions. finally, a large part of the elements of the proposal we are going to present will be confined to cabotage. it's not like a captain of a ship that suddenly comes into i don't know what port is going to dispense with a pilot. that would make no sense from a security standpoint. we are talking, on the contrary, about a captain who enters a port every week, who knows the port and who also has an authorization, granted by the port authority itself, which guarantees that he has the appropriate levels, knowledge and skills. he says we can keep talking. you can always talk more. if you suddenly bring up legislation without having spoken to anyone, i understand your concern. but i have been a commissioner for five years and i have spoken to the port sectors on various occasions for five years. and not only i, but the commission services have been working for seven years since the green paper was adopted and before that, to prepare it, talking to the various managers, actors and protagonists in european ports. so there have been consultations and talks. i will earn my salary until the last day and i will be able to answer to your confidence and to the confidence of your parliament and the council, and that means doing my job, which is, among other things, to present this proposal for a directive, if it is ready.
the workers and their unions have expressed their strong opposition to the liberalization of port services. the ports are of strategic importance for the economic development and the defensive armament of countries. skilled workers in ports are linked to the unloading of ships, the loading of ships and, by extension, the safety and protection of human life at sea and the protection of the environment. how does the commissioner assess these criteria in relation to the new initiative for the new regulation? does it take into account the proposals of the employees?
commission madam president, the question concerns the conclusions drawn by the commission from the abolition of quantitative restrictions on international trade in textiles, which will take effect on 31 december this year, in accordance with a decision taken at multilateral level within the world trade organisation ten years ago. we all agreed together, ten years ago, that these quantitative restrictions would be lifted by the end of this year. now the deadline is coming, and it raises - understandably, even though we have had all the time to prepare for it for ten years with gradual liberalization - a certain anxiety, as well as fears and difficulties to which the commission has endeavoured to respond. the general strategy we have adopted is to regard the european textile and clothing industry, as the author himself does, not as an industry of the past - whose gradual disappearance is to be managed more or less cleanly from a social and political point of view - but on the contrary as a sector of the future. the textile and clothing industry in europe is a competitive, modern, innovative and productive industry. europe is the continent where the textile and clothing sector is the most modern and productive. however, the completion of the elimination of quantitative restrictions poses a challenge to our competitiveness which we must be able to meet. and that is what the commission did when it proposed lines of action last june. we worked with a high-level group representing the commission, the member states, various players in the sector, producers, distributors and trade union representatives; i have personally participated in the work of this group, which has produced a number of conclusions. here's the gist of it. what we propose to do is to start by monitoring international trade a little more closely, and in particular our imports. we will therefore set up a near real-time monitoring system by the end of this year so that the figures, and in particular any sudden increases in imports, can be more easily identified and that we can draw the necessary conclusions in accordance with our wto rights. we will also pay greater attention to international competition issues, and in particular to illegal practices such as dumping, fraud, protection of intellectual property, which are all, of course, cancers that need to be monitored very closely. the second element is the conquest of foreign markets. in our view, this remains the most effective weapon for securing the future of the sector, whether it is large markets which remain protected, such as the american market in a number of cases, or whether it is potentially important markets for us, namely a number of markets in developing countries - not all of them - which, in the textile and clothing sector, are now potential importers of european products, particularly those with high added value. the whole discussion, which will be mainly on tariffs and non-tariff barriers, will be held in the context of the doha round of trade negotiations. we are therefore at the heart of this international negotiation. i would add a regional dimension to this multilateral work, which concerns the euro-mediterranean area, on which we have been working with our partners around the mediterranean, namely the countries of the europe of the 25, of course, and the candidate countries or those which are likely to become such as turkey, the idea being to establish a kind of pan-european integrated textile and clothing area with, for example, the help of a pan-euro-mediterranean cumul of origin which we have negotiated, and up to this year included. finally, a very brief word on china, which is obviously the most formidable competitor in this matter, given the efficiency, productivity and wage levels in that country. we have set up a system of bilateral dialogue with the chinese on textile trade to examine ways of avoiding too great a disruption of trade as a result of the elimination of quotas. in addition to this government-to-government and administration-to-administration dialogue, we have established a dialogue between european and chinese business circles, the first meeting of which took place very recently. all these measures, which were taken up in the commission's initial communication last october and which were discussed in the context of this work of the high-level group, will be the subject of a new commission communication, which is currently scheduled for october. so we're going to approach this year-end deadline with a lot of awareness, but also with a toolbox that has been seriously improved in recent times.
madam president, although i am wasting valuable time, i would also like to publicly congratulate the commissioner, mr lamie, on the work he has done from the portfolio he has managed so far as commissioner. my supplementary question is what general measures of harmonization, reciprocity and abolition of non-trade barriers the commission intends to take, both at multilateral and bilateral level, and in the context of interregional cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months.
the commission. i would like to thank mr papadimoulis because his question allows me to clarify certain issues relating to contractors in greece - one of the issues that has arisen and, of course, to clarify matters concerning the directive on fixed-term work. the directive requires member states to take measures to improve the quality of fixedterm work by ensuring the application of the principle of non-discrimination and to prevent abuse caused by the use of successive fixedterm contracts. the way in which this is achieved depends to a large extent on the member states themselves. they may, for example, set out objective reasons justifying the renewal of such contracts, the maximum total duration of successive contracts and the maximum number of renewals of such contracts. different solutions may be available for different branches of employment or for different categories of workers, provided that the rules in place are sufficient to prevent abuse. it should be noted that this directive does not require a member state to take measures to convert fixedterm contracts into permanent contracts. many countries have such rules as part of a package of measures to prevent abuse, but the directive itself does not establish a right for fixedterm workers to become permanent workers. as regards the new greek presidential decree, article 10 on transitional provisions provides for the conversion of certain successive contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. however, as this conversion is not a requirement of the community directive, the manner and criteria by which it is achieved and the number and categories of contractors it covers cannot be subject to control by the european commission. the first legislative act to which mr papadimoulis refers to the implementation of the directive in greece was indeed not satisfactory as regards the measures to prevent abuse by successive fixed-term contracts. the european commission's services were in contact with the greek authorities at the time in order to find solutions more quickly and to avoid resorting to legal proceedings. greece, as i mentioned earlier, has since adopted a new presidential decree, which changes the data of the previous presidential decree regarding the public sector. apart from the conversion of some fixed-term contracts into permanent positions, the general rule of the new presidential decree is that fixed-term contracts exceeding the maximum duration of 24 months as defined in the presidential decree are automatically void and may justify the payment of compensation to workers and the imposition of sanctions, including criminal, on employers. the commission's preliminary examination has shown that the rules on successive fixedterm contracts in the new decree are not contrary to the directive on fixedterm work. however, since the decree only covers the public sector, the situation must also be addressed for the private sector. as soon as greece notifies the commission of any additional relevant legislation implementing the directive, we will assess whether it complies with community law and whether it adopts the necessary measures where appropriate.
commissioner, if we assume that greece, our common home, would implement the community directive we are talking about in time, even after the extension it received in 2002, thousands of people, with the provisions of the presidential decree to which you referred, would have secured the conversion of their contract into an indefinite contract. my question is this: why should the delay of the greek authorities for two years be paid for by thousands of workers exposed to abuses by employers, whether public or private?
, in writing. we express our heartfelt condolences to the families of the beslan victims. at the same time, we express our deep concern at further developments in the region related to the us and eu plans and the apparent copying of their strategy by the russian government in the areas of internal and external security and in particular the adoption of the doctrine of pre-emptive war. it is clear that the recent beslan tragedy and the ominous forecasts are another result of the collapse of the ussr and the overthrow of socialism. the caucasus region, through which the oil routes pass, is in the eye of the cyclone of inter-imperialist rivalries which intensify the risks of destabilization in the region and generalization of conflicts. the concerns expressed by the us and eu imperialists are particularly hypocritical. the 'political solution' they propose, and the so-called internationalisation of the problem, are aimed at turning the region into a kosovo-style protectorate. only the popular struggles of the peoples of russia to overturn the present situation can create the conditions for a just and peaceful solution of the problems.
the debate is closed at this point for votes. it'll be continued right after.
mr president, i would first of all like to express my solidarity and support for the european citizens, the two french journalists and the two italian women humanitarian workers, who are being held hostage in iraq. the continued hostage situation is a serious blow to the european union itself and its contribution to the reconstruction of iraq. we must all strengthen our cooperation and join our voices for their immediate release. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the political process of transition to free elections as envisaged by un security council resolution 15/46 is being undermined on a daily basis. the withdrawal of international and european humanitarian organizations will be a defeat for the international community and especially for the european union. mr president, last june we all welcomed the unanimous adoption of security council resolution 15/46 on the launching of the political process leading to free elections and a new democratic constitution. despite the legitimization of the occupying forces as a multinational force by the security council, the occupation continues and is a real fact and is the source and the main cause of the ongoing conflict. under these circumstances, who really believes that the timetable set out in resolution 15/46 will be respected, who believes that it can guarantee a smooth political process, who believes that the un can play its leading role in iraq? the european union must play its own autonomous role, make its own analysis of the security situation and proceed with its own analysis of the role, composition and prospects of the multinational force. the commission's communication of june 2004 is important, as is the role of commissioner patten. but i fear they cannot be implemented. the european commission and the council of ministers must immediately draw up an assessment report on the security situation in iraq, and an international initiative must be taken to convene an international conference.
the council, the president, the members of the european parliament, i can say first of all that i have listened with great interest and also with appreciation to the many contributions made today on this sensitive subject. i'd just like to say that after everything that's happened, we'd do well to look ahead and not blame each other too much. i think we should do the same, because our ultimate aim is not to let the iraqi people down. so we must constantly ask ourselves what our goals are. first of all, i think, we must ensure that the political process is completed, as is also clearly stated in resolution 1546. i also believe that the european union is determined to make a constructive and effective contribution to this. i am thinking here of the contribution we can make to the electoral process so that it goes smoothly and all iraqis can participate. that we help to install a legitimate government, that we ensure that, when that legitimate government is installed, it is also supported by a good and efficient administration. in short, i think we must strive to ensure that the values we ourselves hold dear are also accepted in this stricken country. i think of the democracy that this country has lacked for so long. i am thinking of human rights and respect for them, and i can tell you that this also applies to women, who have been rightly pointed out. i am thinking of respect for minorities, including the assyrian minority, which is another problem in this country which will need careful attention. i am thinking of the establishment of the rule of law and how we, the european union, with our vast experience, with the contribution we can make to the restoration of a genuine, independent judicial body with judges who really speak the law, with everything that goes with it and is important, can train and educate these people. the importance of neighbouring countries has also been stressed, and i am happy to support that. i have already said in my first speech that during my visit to iraq, in my talks with the prime minister and the ministers, i indicated that the european union would be pleased to accept an invitation to participate in the forthcoming conference of neighbouring countries. it has been pointed out here several times: stability in iraq means stability in the region. peace and democracy in iraq will also have an impact on the neighbouring countries. i believe that we must do everything possible to ensure that peace and democracy are established in iraq itself. we must therefore, as the european union, be able to overcome the differences that have existed and make our presence in iraq clearly visible. i know how much this is appreciated and desired by the present government. i therefore believe that we cannot shirk our responsibilities and that we must now follow the clear course we have set out. the dutch presidency will do its utmost to ensure that this is the case. i have made it clear what those objectives are. i also explained that we have sent a reconnaissance mission, that we are now going to send a follow-up mission and that on the basis of that we will determine in the very near future how we can put this into practice. that is the aim, mr president, and i hope to be able to report to you on the results of that at the end of our presidency.
the debate is closed. i have received, pursuant to rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate on the situation in iraq. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3.00 p.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that a number of states are now openly violating the criteria of the stability pact by serving the narrow interests of the monopolies, the european union insists on its maintenance and even stresses the need for greater strictness in its application in order to intensify the pressure for the adoption of new anti-people measures. the proposed amendments, combined with the 3% budget deficit and 60% public debt criteria, make the stability pact even more reactionary in order to speed up the implementation of the anti-people lisbon strategy. a coordinated increase in taxation of employees is being promoted to create budget surpluses. they put greater control on national budgets to strengthen the competitiveness of european monopoly firms by reducing taxation and providing new privileges for capital. they put a heavy weight on public debt in order to push for immediate changes in pension systems, further commercialization of health care, reduction of social spending and faster promotion of capitalist restructuring to make labor cheaper and increase the profitability of big business. the proposed revision confirms that the only way to deal with the stability pact, and the european union's anti-people policy in general, is through indiscipline, workers' disobedience and the escalation of the workers' struggle.
the commission's proposals for changes to the stability pact, mr president, do not affect its neoliberal philosophy. they serve the particular needs - to tell the truth - of the german and french governments and will burden countries like greece with a particularly high public debt, a debt that will grow because of the very expensive olympic games and high defence spending. these changes to the pact do not address the critical problems: low growth rates, high unemployment, large social and regional disparities, problems which have plagued the course of the european union in recent years. the european united left, contrary to the criticism of european bankers who express the utmost neoliberal orthodoxy, calls for a radical reform of the stability pact. we are calling for a european pact for employment, growth and social cohesion which will introduce social criteria with measurable and verifiable indicators and provide for penalties and sanctions even for countries which violate them, for example, countries which maintain high unemployment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would agree that the stability pact has been useful. but it needs to be changed because it has not always been applied correctly or fairly. in some countries the commission has exhausted its rigor and in others the council has exhausted its indulgence. i agree that we must take account not only of the real deficit but also of the structural deficit, that is to say, we must ignore short-term cyclical fluctuations in gdp. if we had done that, germany would not have had a problem in 2002, in 2003, and not this year. france, on the other hand, would have had a problem in 2002 and 2003, but not this year. a source of friction would have been eliminated. i also agree that we should not neglect the debt. but that means we have to use the primary structural deficit, that is, subtracting the cost of debt relief. i also agree that it should be examined whether a country has had excessive expenditure for which it is not solely responsible, as happened with greece and the extraordinary burdens of the olympic games. finally, mr president, i want an agreement that will achieve the stability of the euro area and not the unequal treatment of its members, an agreement with a long-term strategy and not with spasmodic reactions, ensuring the lisbon objectives without plunging the economies into a vicious cycle of recession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the beginning may be half of everything, but it is not everything. the beginning of the constitution was made by the intergovernmental conference with the adoption of the constitutional treaty, an assembly which closed its work during the greek presidency in june 2003. it is an achievement of which we are all very proud. but the other half, the ratification of this constitution, is still to come. it would be a tragic mistake and a bit schizophrenic, if i may say so, for us to assume that our anxiety is over and that all the worry and all the problem is now being left to the national governments. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft constitution, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. firstly, as european institutions we must not advocate and do contradictory things: we need to coordinate so that the left knows what the right is doing. secondly, and at the very least, we must help to inform the citizen in simple and clear terms about the differences between the nice treaty and this new constitution. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are going to continue to operate, but that is what will happen with the treaty of nice. thirdly, and this is particularly important, information should continue after the referendums. the constitution is a living thing: it doesn't end with his approval. rather, it begins with its application. it gives rights to our citizens. rights of participation and cooperation to force us to legislate. rights they need to know in order to exploit them. we have this obligation if our constitution is to be a constitution which promotes not only democracy, not only transparency, but also the power of the citizen in the union we are building together. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i need advice. the council's powers and possibilities are of course limited, as mrs stihler will be aware. fortunately, there are other avenues, other bodies, that can deal with such situations; the council is of course always alert within the limits and if our signals are heard, mrs stihler knows the ways in which we can take a closer look at this matter and deal with it.
i need advice. the western balkans, mr president, remains one of the priorities of the european union. my colleague, foreign minister bot, visited the region from 21 to 23 july during one of his first trips as president of the council of ministers and stressed that the region would remain a priority for the eu under the dutch presidency and that the future of these countries lay within the european union. the importance of the dutch presidency for the western balkans can be seen in the various other ministerial meetings, including the first-ever stability and association council meeting with fyrom and the preparations for the first esdp military operation altea in bosnia and herzegovina. in thessaloniki in june 2003, the european union reaffirmed its strong support for the western balkans in its efforts to consolidate democracy and stability and to promote economic development and regional cooperation. the european union and the countries of the western balkans already have a common agenda and strategy, the stabilisation and association process (sap). what needs to be done, mr president, is clear and is shown by the new instruments known as the partnerships. these set out priorities for action and provide the western balkan countries with a coherent framework for moving closer to the eu. further progress in the sap will depend on the determination of both parties, the eu and the western balkan countries, to deliver on their commitments. the pace at which the western balkan countries will progress towards the eu will depend on the performance of each country in implementing reforms. progress, mr president, in individual countries must go hand in hand with enhanced regional cooperation and the european union will continue to work with the stability pact for south east europe, the seecp, and other relevant actors to further enhance regional cooperation.
i would like to thank you very much, mr minister, for your reply and for confirming the commitment of the european union, and in particular of the council, to the process of stabilization in the region of south-east europe. as the european parliament points out in its annual report, and as was clearly stated at the thessaloniki summit, we must take stock and evaluate the implementation of the commitments made by the countries in the region. and my question was aimed at that very point. i have also been able to say that there is an additional aid offer beyond the known financial framework and beyond the 2004 budget: do you assess that these countries of south-eastern europe are implementing their commitments?
i need advice. i would like to answer the second supplementary question. the council's power is indeed limited in terms of enforcing what the honourable members have spoken about. we do what we can, and i have tried to show that. i would also like to point out, mr president, that the dutch government in question will be making an international climate tour this autumn as part of the european union presidency, in the light of the problems raised by the two members of parliament. he is planning to visit the united states, china, india, brazil, south africa, qatar and also some eu member states. the aim is to mobilize the positive forces around international climate policy and the intended outcome of the tour is that the climate problem is recognized by the visited countries and that there is a willingness to talk about a long-term climate policy.
i need advice. this question, mr president, is closely linked to the debate we have just had here in the plenary on communication with the citizens, on the low turnout in the last european parliament elections and on the importance - which the european council also attaches to and which it also expressed in july last - of greater involvement of the citizens. the question also points out the importance of doing so from the point of view of the citizen and his problems, the problems facing the citizen. that is precisely the approach we will be discussing at the meeting of 5 october. we will look into this as the ministers concerned and report back to the european council on 5 november. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think, mr president, that the discussion just now has covered this subject sufficiently. perhaps an additional procedural remark. the involvement of the four presidencies following the dutch presidency in this matter is also a matter for the four presidencies in particular, in order to organise activities not only in the context of the referendum but more broadly in the context of communication with the citizen.
i need advice. i am very happy to say, mr president, that we will carry the torch that was indeed lit by my predecessor, mr dick roche, the minister for european affairs during the irish presidency, as i said, for at least the next four presidencies, and that this torch will continue to burn.
i would like to ask the president whether i may extend the search for a positive european profile beyond the europe of 25 to the rest of the world. we must not forget that the european union, with its community budget and its member states, is the largest donor of development and humanitarian aid in the world. but the experience of many colleagues visiting the third world suggests that this is not visible: third world citizens look more to individual member states or international organizations such as the world bank or the united nations than to the european union. i believe that in the effort we are making today to increase our political weight and our intervention in the world, we must also take care of our image in the outside world.
in writing. the war waged by nato and the eu against yugoslavia was unjust, aggressive and in violation of international law and the principles of the un charter. it resulted in the deaths of thousands of innocent people, caused enormous destruction, imposed an occupation on kosovo and was the culmination of the breakup of yugoslavia and the imperialist intervention in the balkans. the ones who should be tried for crimes against humanity are the nato leaders who attacked an independent un member state. the council regulation which parliament is voting on today is helping to legitimize this american-inspired 'court' which is a travesty, as evidenced by the constant violations of milosevic's rights. the trial revealed the existence of premeditated and perverse decisions designed to conceal and expiate the real culprits. the decisions of the so-called "civil court of the hague" are not accepted by the people, the only ones competent to judge their leaders and to try those accused. this travesty must stop, the so-called court must be dissolved, and s. milosevic released.
in writing. in view of the upcoming elections and referendum, the european parliament adopts a resolution which is a continuation of the pressure and blackmail against the government of belarus, which unfortunately is signed by all political groups. what hurts the eu's selective sensitivity to interpret existing or non-existent human rights violations is that belarus has not bowed to nato, the eu and the rest of the imperialist organizations, refusing to sell off its wealth-producing resources to european and american monopolies. why has the european parliament not been made aware of the revival of fascism in the baltic states, as belarus did, when it submitted a resolution to the un? why is it silent and does not criticize the governments of the eu member states, the usa, australia, japan, etc., which voted against it? the people of belarus are the only ones who can decide their own future. resolutions like this are malicious, aimed at disorientation, the disorientation of the workers and the interference in the internal affairs of belarus in order to alter the political will of its people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. we denounce the joint resolution - a challenge to the peoples of the world who oppose the unjust imperialist war in iraq and are fighting for peace. the political forces that sign the resolution, accept and support the occupying forces of iraq, recognize and cooperate with the occupying government, call the resistance of the iraqi people to the occupying forces and the proxy government terrorism. the european parliament is becoming a 'crime laundry', confirming the eu's imperialist character and its identification with the us. under the pretext of the release of the hostages, with references to a supposedly democratic, independent iraq, the creation of conditions for the eu to participate in the distribution of imperialist booty is promoted, to safeguard the interests of capital in the wider region, the control of the oil producing sources and routes, the exploitation of the peoples. the only people who can solve the political problem are the iraqi people themselves. the demand of the peoples, and of the peoples of europe, is the immediate withdrawal of all the occupying forces who must compensate the iraqi people for the crimes and destruction they have caused. the signatory powers opposed the general demand by voting down the amendment calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops, once again supporting the war.
in writing. 'we reject the resolution on the situation in vojvodina, which we consider to be an attempt to create particularly dangerous conditions by preparing the ground for further brutal imperialist interventions in the much-troubled area of the balkans. the increase in cases such as grave robberies and racist graffiti on walls, which we condemn wherever they come from, is being used as a pretext for launching accusations and open threats against serbia-montenegro and creating a climate of acrimony. the decisions on eu fact-finding missions in the region constitute the culmination of eu intervention in vojvodina to date and constitute an immediate threat to the possibility of military intervention due to both the presence of eu military forces in bosnia and herzegovina and macedonia, as well as the presence of occupying forces in kosovo. we cannot tolerate and condemn both the attempts to disorient public opinion, as some would like, and the apparent willingness of the eu to confirm in vojvodina the threatening and aggressive role of the euro-army. "
the policies promoted by the outgoing commission had negative consequences for the working class and the popular strata. the eu has been rapidly militarized, has been involved in or tolerated imperialist wars, and is concerned with the division of the spoils. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the accession of the new member states to the european union. he adopted the doctrine of "preventive war" of the united states. the commission has contributed to and promoted a deeply reactionary constitutional treaty which will create new suffering for workers. the eu has moved forward for the benefit of power and the profits of big business. the consequences are unbearable for the workers and the popular strata. the 'miracle' of emu has meant new austerity programmes, a reduction in the purchasing power of the working class family, the destruction of social and political achievements of the working class, the maintenance of high unemployment rates and the reduction of social spending under the stability pact. the implementation of the lisbon strategy confirmed the objective of increasing the profitability of capital by reducing labour costs and creating conditions of insecurity and uncertainty for workers. mr barroso has announced that he will continue the same anti-people policy at an accelerated pace. the popular movement in europe is growing stronger, it is resisting. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
we express our disgust and condemnation of the continuing crime against the palestinian people by the israeli government. the tragic toll of the "days of remembrance" is 111 palestinians dead in 15 days, among them young children and schoolchildren. we denounce those who fuel israeli aggression. the united states that supports and equips the government of israel. the eu, which while opposing the genocide of palestinians in words, in practice accepts it, equating the perpetrator with the victim. the phrase condemnation is hypocritical. the eu continues to support israel financially, through cooperation agreements and by providing it with arms. no representative of an eu member state went as a defence witness to the hague tribunal on the israeli wall. the "holy family" at the nato summit in istanbul unanimously agreed with the plans of the us imperialists for the new "greater middle east", which envisages the upgrading of nato's relations with israel. we call for immediate economic and political measures, including the immediate termination of the association and cooperation agreement with israel, to pressure the israeli government to stop the slaughter of the palestinian people, to withdraw israeli occupation troops from the palestinian territories, to demolish the wall of silence and to establish an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for his briefing. the ongoing conflict in georgia concerns us all, because it creates the conditions for the destabilisation of the wider caucasus region with implications for the strategic security interests of the european union and its member states, the balkans and the wider region of the south-east mediterranean and the middle east. in view of the energy stakes in the region, the european union must immediately take concrete initiatives for the peaceful settlement of the conflicts in abkhazia and south ossetia. in this context, the convening of an international conference under the auspices of the un can help to find a peaceful and diplomatic solution. at the same time, the european union must develop concrete initiatives within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and make its strategic presence in the region more visible. strategic planning and strong financial assistance through the assistance of the european investment bank and the granting of a preferential trade relationship with georgia and the other caucasus countries are required. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in recent years, my country has taken important initiatives at bilateral level to finance infrastructure projects in the fields of health, education, cultural and educational exchanges for the building of a democratic civil society. i would like to conclude, madam president, by stressing the crucial role played by russia in the region. the european union must actively integrate relations with the caucasus region into the political dialogue with russia. at the same time, we must express our firm opposition to the putin regime's views on pre-emptive military intervention, something we have consistently done to the bush administration's american doctrine. these concepts are dangerous for peace because they fuel conflict, they fuel the vicious circle of terrorism and organized crime.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. i will be brief, as you requested. first of all, i would like to thank the various members for their comments. it was very useful to hear your comments as president-in-office of the council and we will certainly take them into account in the further discussion of the subject until christmas. after that, of course, it will be up to our successors in luxembourg. i have already answered most of the questions in the first part-session and the other questions have been put to the commissioner, but i can assure you that we as the presidency will do everything possible to bring the discussion of the regulation as far as possible in the coming months and to involve as much as possible all the parties and therefore also the european parliament. i would also like to point out that the netherlands is very much in agreement with some of your questions, particularly on the rules of origin, product coverage and the preferential margins. finally, mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner very warmly. i would like to thank commissioner pascal lamy for a fruitful co-operation in the past couple of years. we have made a lot of progress in the wto and in the european union because of your personal commitment, your analytical capabilities and your endurance. you have run a marathon in the past years and while doing so you have left some footprints that we will be able to follow in the years to come. so, pascal, thank you, merci.
commission mr president, this is not my last appearance before you, since i shall have the opportunity to see you again in plenary in october, but it would have been the last i would have seen in this coincidence, which is why pierre moscovici is chairing this sitting, a sign, which is sometimes sent to me from elsewhere. unlike my usual practice, i will not be able to give a detailed answer to each and every one of you, since i have only a few minutes. i shall confine myself to the essential, in the usual telegraphic style. mrs martens asks me whether the "everything but arms" regime is going to be changed. no, it's not going to be changed and there's no graduation in the "everything but guns" regime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the gsp to include the mediterranean countries, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. she's right, you know. let us simply know that among the reasons why a number of countries do not have access to our market, although they do have access by law, there is everything to do with sanitary and phytosanitary standards, problems of standards, quality and certification, which are not the responsibility of tariffs. there will therefore always be a difference between theoretical access and practical access, which is due to non-tariff barriers, for which, unfortunately, we cannot establish a specific regime for developing countries: we are not going to establish a tolerance regime for antibiotics in shrimp for everyone and then a specific, favourable regime for shrimp in developing countries. unfortunately, we cannot do it that way! mrs castex suggests that i should involve the social partners in cases where the benefit of these preferences is linked to compliance with social clauses: we are already doing that, mrs castex, and we will continue to do so. for example, the inquiry we are currently conducting into the respect for trade union rights in belarus, which could lead to the union withdrawing the benefit of these preferences from that country, was triggered by a complaint from the european trade union confederation. that is also my answer to mr markov on this point. i'm being asked if the number of beneficiaries is going to be revised. of course, the number of beneficiaries will be revised, based on a criterion, namely market share. i have already said to you, and i say again, that the number of beneficiaries will be affected very little by this system. i should also point out that we are not talking about a country or a product when we talk about graduation, but about a country/product pair - country 'x', product 'y' - which is graduated. caroline lucas is asking me again about the timetable: i believe i explained to you our constraints, particularly those arising from the indian litigation. as for the rules of origin, which she and others - mrs van lancker and mrs glenys kinnock - have insisted on, just know this: suppose we withdraw the benefit of the scheme from china, which is a huge exporter of textile clothing, and allow sri lanka, which exports clothing, to source fabric from china, which, if i understand correctly, mrs lucas would like us to do. in such a case, we are giving back to china, through the back door, if i may say, in the textile sector, the advantage we are taking away from it through the front door. so we can't put ourselves in that kind of contradiction. on the other hand, if sri lanka wants to source cloth from the region around it, we are probably - i have to check this with my colleagues - open to that. i'm almost done with it. mr. louis doesn't like the wto, so he can go ahead. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. it's obviously a caricature. i have not heard that from any other member during this debate. i can only see one point in his speech where he agrees with the commission, which is not bad enough, and that is that the gsp must be preserved - i would even go a little further, improved. mr. sturdy agrees with the tech support connection. mrs kinnock and mrs van lancker want details on the thresholds and the list, either conventions or sanctions. these details will be available on 20 october when the commission takes a decision on my proposal. mrs kinnock wants to see more clarity in the relationship between economic partnership agreements and these unilateral regimes. these are two different systems: economic partnership agreements are intended to promote regional integration within the acp and the gsp, for the time being, except through the rules of origin, does not have this objective. i have finished with that, mr president. i am glad that once again in trade policy parliament has the opportunity to debate a week before the commission itself, which shows that we have made some progress in terms of transparency.
commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, at one of your first plenary sessions, you wanted to put the fight against doping on the agenda. this wish clearly reflects the priority given by parliament to the fight against this scourge which damages the image of sport and the health of sportsmen. at the moment, doping is not only a problem of fair competition, it is also a public health problem. the commission shares your determination in this respect. as you know, for the last five years i have been making every effort to get doping on the community agenda and to take as effective action as possible within the limits of our powers. today, as i leave this portfolio to which i have devoted a great deal of energy, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to take stock of our common progress and to outline the paths for the future. the balance sheet is as follows: i believe that in five years we have done the maximum possible within the existing legal framework, also taking into account the reluctance of several member states and of part of the sports movement to consider the community level as a central level in the fight against doping. you know, sports is not yet a community competence. the commission could only intervene in strict compliance with its powers. the commission can only intervene in this area in order to supplement and strengthen the action taken by sports organisations and the member states. in recent years we have had to use pedagogy in this area to explain what our powers are and what our limits are. on the one hand we were asked why the commission was not taking more initiatives, and on the other hand we were told that we were taking initiatives to harmonize the procedures for monitoring the lists of doping substances, in other words that we were taking over powers which we did not have. in fact, we have done a lot in our field of competence: information, prevention, training, awareness-raising, project support - for example, the athlete's passport, multimedia information tools, scientific studies. we have encouraged dialogue, we have encouraged cooperation. what does that mean, in practical terms? the beginning of my mandate coincided with a period when doping was in the news, with the events of the 1998 tour de france. we have seen that national responses are no longer sufficient and that cooperation, or even coordination, between member states is essential. at the end of 1999, i asked the european ethics group, then chaired by mrs lenoir, to give us its opinion. it was the first time that this body had spoken on the subject of doping and this opinion has been extremely useful in the years since and will remain so in the future. he inspired everything we do. in december 1999, a community support plan for the fight against doping was adopted by the commission. this support plan was welcomed by parliament. at that time mrs zabel was the rapporteur. we asked for the concern about doping to be taken into account in all community policies. under this plan, and with the help of parliament, an annual budget of €5 million has been allocated to anti-doping projects - studies, research, conferences, actions. we have thus been able to support projects which have advanced both information and research in this field. i would like to mention, for example, our study on doping in fitness centres, projects involving young people and a compilation of laws and regulations in the member states. three studies carried out by external consultants, which focused on the socioeconomic factors of doping, youth protection and the european communication strategy. now let's talk about the wada, the world anti-doping agency. i have personally invested a great deal in the creation of the agency, and i have fought above all to uphold principles in the interests of efficiency, so that the new agency can live up to the wishes of those who want zero tolerance to be applied to doping. i had insisted on the need for this agency to be independent and transparent. the genesis of wada was in accordance with our wishes; and the agency was set up in 1999. however, because of incompatibility between the wada budgetary rules and procedures and community law, no community funding could be granted and i do not see any change in this in the future. the draft constitutional treaty, which contains a reference to sport, will not bring any change on this point. it should be noted that wada is doing an honourable job. i want it to become an international public law institution, which i think will make it more effective and credible than the present body, which is governed by private law, which is a problem. finally, the fight against doping is by definition an international phenomenon. this is one of the reasons why we held the marrakesh conference in january 2002, which gave us the opportunity to reflect on the problem of doping with our colleagues in the mediterranean. i would also like to mention the european year of education through sport, during which we have set up a system of information and warning for our young people, and thus a whole system of prevention. prevention is the key word, because we are not here to be repressive, and that is why the commission must focus on the preventive aspect. it must tackle the factors that contribute to creating an environment favourable to doping: the status and training of sports trainers, the role of the medical community, the pressure for success from sponsors. so you see, in five years, a very important work has been done, a joint work, in which i have always been able to count on the full support of parliament. in future, this responsibility will be borne by the new commissioner figel, who, i know, is aware of the importance of this issue. let me make two points, mr president. on the one hand, the constitutional treaty is a source of hope in this area because it says that the physical and moral integrity of young people, especially young sportsmen, must be protected. we will thus be able to strengthen support for the member states and the federations, which will always retain primary responsibility, but we will also be able to support the action of the states in the field of prevention, information and awareness-raising. i would also mention a very important element for all the action that will follow, namely the meca-medina court's judgment of 30 september, which has the merit of clarifying the place of the fight against doping in the community legal environment and which has come to confirm the commission's position as i have been defending it for five years, which i welcome. he said that the fight against doping had no economic purpose. the court therefore held that the ioc's anti-doping rules did not fall within the scope of community competition law. it aims to preserve the sportsmanship and health of athletes. in other words, it is a sporting rule, which leaves the predominance of sporting federations to regulate the matter. mr president, i am very pleased with this conclusion and the wording of this judgment. for the last five years i have been trying to show that the commission is not only interested in sport as an economic phenomenon, but that sport is above all a social activity with an educational and ethical content. and i know that this is the path my successor will follow, because it is important that this parliament, as it has always supported me, will support mr figel in this matter. we have a responsibility to our society. as sport is a key element of this society, we have a responsibility in the field of sport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs reding, we have recently seen that fair play, which is the basic principle of sport and of the olympic games, has become a competitive sport. the noble amylase and the athletic ideal have now been tarnished by the athlete's intense quest to win and excel. in the context of this enormous effort and great competition, science is breaking in with new solutions promising great results. but today i would like to focus on the cases of women and youth. the use of anabolic substances by female athletes, especially young women, damages their femininity, and abuse poses serious health risks, often leading to the loss of motherhood. so in a broader context, the devastating effects of anabolic drugs on younger generations who are trying to emulate their idols are becoming more acute and the need for society to protect us is seen as imperative. we are therefore faced with a new reality, the well-known doping. these products are widely marketed in many forms, either on the internet, on television and in the mail, and even more so in gyms and sports venues, as the media have reported. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would remind you that the turnover from the trafficking of anabolic substances is over two billion euros a year in europe and about six billion euros a year worldwide. the wada may be adding to the list of banned anabolic substances almost daily, but the social problem is exacerbated by the young people who are victims of the breakdown of their standards. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european union's intervention in this major social problem which is damaging the image of sport and public health is urgent. do we need to mourn other victims to raise awareness and take on the responsibilities that they impose? just the day before yesterday, one of the greatest baseball players in the united states died of a heart attack brought on by an overdose of anabolic steroids.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. the spread of the problem, not only in professional but also in amateur individual sports, requires us to deal with this major issue as a matter of priority in order to coordinate the member states in combating it. i know that, as recorded in a commission survey in 2002, 6% of people exercising in gyms and fitness centres use performance-enhancing drugs. in fact, the number is higher, and these substances are not approved by pharmaceutical agencies. we have therefore about 3 million 700 000 european citizens who use such substances. unfortunately, despite your continued efforts, the abuse continues. the battle must be fought on four levels. firstly, the highlighting of the use of anabolic substances as a public health problem, as you very rightly pointed out. secondly, the creation of a legal framework - and i am glad you have corrected that wada should be a body governed by public law - which will allow the european commission to participate effectively in its work, in accordance with what we have had the opportunity to say together. i know that this body is indirectly funded with two million euros for various initiatives at a time when the european commission, as you have admitted, is not directly involved. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. and fourthly, the correct labelling of the relevant preparations widely available on the market so that it is clearly indicated that they are anabolic substances. the committee on culture and education of the european parliament, which i have the honour of chairing, decided on my own initiative to organise a major public hearing in november entitled 'doping - an obstacle to the ideal of sport'. this will give us the opportunity to analyse issues and perhaps contribute to initiatives that we should take together... (the speaker is not heard)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area. i think that is a very good thing, but i do not think that is enough. in 1999 the commission announced that it would put forward a proposal for a council recommendation under article 152, and in the first half of 2002 it would publish a proposal on doping based on article 152. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. this is recorded in the liabilities of the european commission. i am sorry that on 14 september, in answer to a question in the european parliament, you told me that there was no legal basis for doing more. and yet, in may 2000, you said there was a legal basis and that was public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account.
mr president, the real cause of the great problem of doping is the commercialisation of sport, the assumption that the athlete can be a professional and therefore there is a professional sport. in the capitalist mode of production, professional sport is a special case, because it accepts athletes at such a young age that they are at least formally prohibited from participating in the rest of production. so children are subject to double exploitation when the sports team is a business, so its aim is to increase profits, winning at all costs becomes for the young athlete what the market demands, namely maximizing its profits. winning is so crucial to commercial success, so any means are permissible. the very existence of professional sport poisons and undermines every moral aspect of amateur sport. doping occurs in sport but also where there is great appeal to other young people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting heritage is protected. we need to abolish all forms of professional sport, to cut the umbilical cord of sport with businessmen and sponsors, to establish mass amateur sport... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. the proposed amendment to regulation 1268/1999 aims to approve preaccession measures concerning agriculture and rural development in the candidate countries of central and eastern europe which did not join in may 2004, romania and bulgaria. the aim of these measures is to adapt the agricultural economies of the applicant countries to the cap so that they can be integrated in the near future. the kke group in the european parliament is opposed to eu enlargement because it would be to the detriment of the peoples of these countries, as it is to the detriment of the living standards and rights of the greek people. but it also disagrees with the cap because its main objective is to reduce the rural economies of the applicant countries by imposing low quotas and by eliminating small and medium-sized farmers so that the land is concentrated in a few large farmers. the commission also considers that the community's agricultural policy should be geared to the needs of the less-favoured regions and that the community should be able to take account of the specific needs of the less-favoured regions.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on institutional affairs has also called for the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly, which would be a forum for the discussion of the future of the union. we are opposed to the proposed or any constitution of capital and war, as it will aim at the power of european monopolies at the expense of the socio-political rights of the working class and the popular strata. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process, and it has been a party to the peace process, and it has been a party to the peace process. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. we cannot help but notice that the resolution lacks any need for objective information or even a choice by the people, but it stresses support for the 'historic importance of the agreement'. we shall call on the peoples to say a resounding no to the european constitution, to the militarization and repression of europe, to the dictatorship of capital. we welcome the fact that more and more countries are setting up drug rejection committees.
in writing. in the five years of the "area of freedom, security and justice" (afsj) of the tampere programme, reactionary laws were promoted, military-police mechanisms were strengthened, uncontrolled intelligence services, the dossier and prosecutions were strengthened. the euro-monitoring system, the european arrest warrant, the schengen agreements, the anti-refugee directives, etc. are the results of the 'space', which the commission communication not only praises but also welcomes the fact that a number of them are incorporated into the draft constitution. the future directions set out by the commission for tampere ii accelerate the generalized attack on the individual and political rights and freedoms of the peoples. strengthen the eu's opaque and centralised services and security and information systems they're turning the judiciary into a legitimate mechanism for repression. they are creating an eu-controlled fortress of immigrants. they lead to a drastic reduction in the granting of asylum. the report by the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs accepts the commission's guidelines and contributes to the democratic legitimacy of the new, harsh and undemocratic approach by mr tampere ii. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the working class and the peoples of europe must put obstacles in the way and intensify their struggle against the so-called eec, because it is against their rights and serves the 'justice' of capital and the multinationals. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
mr president, on 15 october, at the initiative of mr bakogiannis, mayor of athens, a meeting of the epp group in the committee of the regions was held in athens on the subject of 'security and civil protection in european cities'. the greek prime minister, mr karamanlis, in his greeting referred, among other things, to the need to further highlight the european union's protection policy. ladies and gentlemen, it is primarily our responsibility as members of the european parliament, the supremely democratically legitimized institution, to give substance to the community action programme which expires in december 2004, because the institutional acquis is so far very meagre. i would like to make this appeal to my colleagues in this house to encourage and promote civil protection within the european union.
mr president, the high oil prices and the current dependence of the world economy on it, in addition to the obvious concern in every economy, have begun to cause economic suffocation in households and businesses. the present price increase appears not merely to be temporary or speculative but also to reflect structural changes, capable of leading to multiple revisions of the world economy. the development of the asian zone and a number of geopolitical factors are among the factors that have created the current economic disruption from oil. it is therefore not at all improbable that oil prices will stabilize at levels well above what we have considered normal in the past. the commission itself has stated that a 25% increase in the price of oil this year will reduce the rate of growth by 0.17% for the european union. these negative developments make it imperative that the commission and the council take immediate action and also take action in the medium term. in a period of economic recession, of pressure to increase inflationary trends, of a review of the fiscal policy of the stability and growth pact and of the effectiveness of the support mechanisms of the lisbon agreement, we cannot, commissioner, confine ourselves to statements and reports that there is no problem in substance. the european parliament would like to reconsider ways - there is a detailed analysis of the impact of already high oil prices on economic growth in the relevant sectors, such as transport, agriculture, trade, but also employment. it is important to note, firstly, that almost all the member states' budgets are based on the price of oil at 29 dollars. secondly, to stress the need to develop a stable and effective european framework to deal with upward trends and sudden fluctuations in oil prices. thirdly, to stress the need to develop and activate a crisis response plan and to create an effective crisis prevention framework, where they can be referred to in the new stability pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. finally, the need to provide financial support for farms and businesses which are already burdened by the increase in production costs and cannot actually pass on the costs to the consumer should be emphasized. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the delay in taking direct initiatives will contribute to the existence, as was also shown in the council, of individual national policies, and here i would like to stress that the different national economic and political management cannot affect the level of implementation of the single community policies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't let that spoil the competition. the increase in the price of oil, however, is burdening low incomes and increasing tax revenues in the member states. there are member states which say that we should give back to the low income groups a part of our increased income. in particular, in france, they say with a tax refund. in greece they are proposing to reduce the taxes collected by the state to relieve the low income. the farmers and fishermen are not satisfied with studies, they want concrete measures. i would therefore ask you to tell us in your reply why the majority of the members reject the proposals coming from france or greece and when specific measures for farmers and fishermen will be decided.
mr president, why is there such panic from sweden to greece and from portugal to poland? why was the commission caught off guard? why have you allowed things to go on in this way so badly for european households, for industry, for fisheries? has the commission not seen how much the map has changed in recent years? didn't he see the american intervention? he controls iraq's oil supply with the invasion. he controls saudi arabia's oil with control of the royal family. he's controlling the libyan oil with gaddafi's hostage. he's controlling venezuela's oil supply in an effort to destabilize chavez. he controls russia's oil with his client relationships with putin. it controls oil and plays games with oil to the detriment of the european union and to the detriment of china. a china which has a great need for oil (one in twelve barrels produced goes there) and a europe which, with its currency devalued and oil at $ 55, has products that are extremely inaccessible and expensive, which no longer come close to the shelves. you'll be seeing problems of a magnitude before long. the chryslers will flood europe; i'm not going to be able to do it. more american cars will be the result, and that's what everybody understands what it means for the economy. we must get out of this trap as soon as possible. we can adjust the currency and we can, above all, get the oil back. romanian oil and oil in the aegean sea, which turkey has blocked. if you want cheap oil, it is up to you to put turkey's two feet in one shoe and have cheap oil in europe so that the people of europe do not get their hopes up.
the increase in international and national oil prices is the result of the intensified attack of capital for more profits and directly affects the income of the working class family. the effects of this increase will be felt most strongly by poor households during the winter period, unless immediate financial support measures are taken to address heating costs. the sharp rise in the price of 'black gold' is leading to a new and generalized wave of precision in consumer goods, added to that of the continuous appreciation which has caused a significant reduction in workers' incomes. at the same time, the profits of multinationals operating in the sector are increasing rapidly, capital is being concentrated and centralised, particularly at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises, and capitalist restructuring is being stepped up. the increase in energy consumption in developing countries, wars and the exacerbations caused by the monopolies themselves, are a pretext for price increases. the real cause lies in the exploitation of the productive resources for the benefit of the plutocracy and its strengthening in a climate of generalized privatization. the only answer to precision lies in the struggles of the workers against barbarism for radical changes, for energy and other strategically important sectors to become the people's property and for the modern needs of the workers to be met.
madam president, this is the first time that such a political crisis has arisen after the commissioners and the commission as a whole have been heard. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the single european act, which will be submitted to the council in the autumn. the crisis in question was of course initiated by the council itself, but i think that you, mr barroso, will continue this crisis with your present attitude and promises, without realising that with this course of the commission you will end up as a punching bag between the european parliament and the council. i would also like to say that the crisis is not only reflected in the political and communication phenomenon buttiglione but also in the deficient presence of many commissioners, such as those responsible for competition, agriculture and taxation, people who have not been able to convince the members of their committees of their prospects and political commitments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, one of the main conclusions to be drawn from the recent hearings of the commissioners-designate is that the role of our parliament has been confirmed, because in previous similar procedures the commissioners-designate have not been subjected to such substantive or such extensive and thorough hearings. the commission's clear and sincere willingness to cooperate with the european parliament is what is decisive. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one. let's not hide behind our thumb! the main criticism was directed at mr buttiglione. i am sure that mr buttiglione used some expressions which were unfortunate, but his letter of explanation and the president's personal assurances convinced me that mr buttiglione will not mix his religious or philosophical views with the practice of politics. i personally believe that the new commission is made up of personalities capable of handling the challenges of the next five years and that is why we, the greek members of the new democracy, will vote for it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the vote on the european commission is of particular institutional and political importance. unfortunately, the hearings have raised serious reservations about the general political direction the commission will take, as with some bright exceptions a strong neoliberal outlook has prevailed without corresponding convincing social commitments. we also had reservations about the hearings on competition, taxation and agriculture, which require further clarification and specific political commitments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the statements made by mr buttiglione touched on the core of our values for the european society we want to build, for a society that we want to be based on solidarity, tolerance and non-discrimination. mr barroso, our position is clear. if there is no substantial change in mr buttiglione's portfolio, we are obliged to vote against your commission. you mentioned the risk of institutional crisis. the exercise of the european parliament's powers, which are provided for in the treaty itself, is in no way a crisis. it is, on the contrary, an expression of the functioning of a democratic institution. the responsibility, mr barroso, is now yours. you still have the power, you still have the authority to give an institutional and political solution to the situation that has arisen. (the president cut off the speaker)
we now continue with the debate on the statement by mr barroso, president–elect of the commission, presenting the college of commissioners and their programme.
the debate is closed. the vote on the commission's approval will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
mrs. kauppi, this is not a procedural matter.
- we move on to the vote. report (a6-0012/2004) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) report (a6-0011/2004) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the council directives establishing basic community measures for the control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) report (a6-0023/2004) by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the conclusion of protocols to the partnership and cooperation agreements between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the following countries, of the other part1. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013). the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013). the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013). the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's 'sustainable development strategy' (2007-2013) and a communication on the 'sustainable development strategy' (2008-2013). the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013). the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the fight against drugs, which aims to: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's 'regional and regional policy' in the context of the eu-ukraine association council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. 9.uzbekistan [8908/2004 - com ((2004) 0272 c6-0020/2004 2004/0092 ((cns)) ]on the other hand, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) report by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2130/2001 on support measures for uprooted populations in developing countries in asia and latin america (a6-0018/2004) (parliament adopted the resolution) report by mr alain lipietz (a6-0014/2004) on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the annual report of the european central bank for 2003
in writing. the creation of the euro has been identified in the consciousness of workers with a wave of precision in the basic broad categories of consumption, with a harsh restrictive policy, with greater unemployment and poverty for workers and benefits for employers. the ecb has been at the forefront of the pressure to reduce wages, to reduce social spending, to change the social security system in favour of private capital. the ecb's exclusive commitment to price stability has not only failed to deliver on basic consumer goods, but has also contributed to worsening working and living conditions for workers, to making it more difficult for smes to access the capital market and to redistributing wealth in favour of capital. it has been shown that the single monetary policy serves the common interests of big business and makes the considerable differences between national and local economies more difficult by placing the burden on the backs of the workers and the popular strata. we were and are against emu because we stand for the interests of the workers. today the 'vision' of the euro is turning into a nightmare for the working class family. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank.
mrs kauppi, i am sorry to interrupt you, but what you are saying is not procedural.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has effectively absorbed all the main responsibilities of the common foreign and security policy and of the european defence and security policy. in fact, a small budget has been created under the full control of the council, fully integrated into the council's operational expenditure, which, by virtue of the gentlemen's agreement, we in parliament are not even allowed to touch. they're taking away critical responsibilities and financial control powers and invoking the gentlemen's agreement to keep us quiet. for example, the account of the new head of counter-terrorism is not controlled by the european parliament but is directly at the expense of the council. so is the account of the person responsible for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fado program. in its explanatory statement on the budget, the council itself welcomes the fact that its general secretariat has acquired a new profile, more dynamic and more flexible, a development which, i repeat, the council welcomes, adding that it will also demand new conditions in favour of the council. the council is now building its own mini-budget, its own separate budget, by creating its own separate bureaucracy for external affairs. so let's ask ourselves: we are not talking about a european parliament which is a political body, but a european parliament which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body, which is a political body. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. if we want the last one, we know what we have to do. i don't know anything. if we want to be counted and represent the union, then we must send the message in every direction that we are here and that our role is not decorative.
mr president, i too would like to begin by warmly thanking our rapporteurs, mr garriga and mrs jensen, for their excellent work. the 2005 budget is of particular importance. it is the first budget of the union after enlargement, and in 2005 we will have reached half the lisbon strategy timetable. the council's first reading unfortunately moved in an accounting direction of cuts. the council has shown a lack of consistency between the objectives it sets and the means it ultimately decides to use to achieve them. there is a question of the political credibility of the council when it decides to cut eur 3 billion from the payment appropriations of the structural funds, at a time when the european commission and the commissioner responsible have repeatedly stressed to us that in 2005 an intensification of the implementation of these programmes is expected. there is a question of the political credibility of the council when it makes significant cuts in critical policies of the lisbon strategy. there is a question of political credibility when we are discussing the new financial framework of the union for the period 2007-13 and the impression is created that behind the council's cuts there is the symbolism of not exceeding 1%. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, in its first reading on thursday the european parliament, in accordance with the strategy we have followed in the committee on budgets, with a sense of responsibility towards the european citizens and the objectives we have set ourselves, must support the reinstatement of the appropriations for the structural policies. we believe that policies aimed at sustainable growth and employment must be strengthened. we are seeking to strengthen social europe and to give substantial support to small and mediumsized enterprises. we really need to make an effort from the first reading until december to make the 2005 budget a credible instrument for development, ensuring the smooth integration of the new member states, reducing disparities within the union and effectively implementing european policies. i would also like to thank mrs schreyer for her work and wish her every success in her policy.
the commission contributes to the development of the northern regions of greece through the structural funds, not only through the implementation of operational programmes in individual sectors, but also through the interreg programmes implemented under the community initiatives. these programmes provide for the financing of crossborder, transnational and transregional cooperation activities in the regions of the eu member states. under the third community support framework for greece, covering the years 2000 to 2006, the european union is co-financing structural measures in the greek regions. in this context, programmes have been agreed for the regions of western macedonia, central macedonia and eastern macedonia and thrace. the aim of this measure is to promote development and structural adjustment. the total public expenditure planned for these measures in the three regions concerned is eur 2.7 billion, of which the structural funds will contribute eur 2 billion, or 75%. while the measures related to improving local infrastructure are progressing very well, the measures to improve the dynamism of the local economy and the labour market and to exploit the potential of human resources have unfortunately been delayed. this is because of the difficulty of implementing such measures. the competent authorities are often overwhelmed by the need to implement these very complex and very demanding programmes. in addition to these funds, the regions mentioned also receive substantial funds from the operational programmes of the community support framework for greece, which are implemented throughout the country. over 65% of the structural funds allocated to greece are managed through these horizontal programmes. the northern regions are also involved in the following crossborder programmes: firstly, the interreg programme for greece and turkey, which has a budget of eur 46.6 million. this programme was approved at the end of 2003; no measures have been taken so far. the second is the crossborder interreg phare programme between greece and bulgaria. the budget for this is eur 254 million and a number of projects have been launched, including transport infrastructure measures. thirdly, the interreg programme for greece and cards for albania and the interreg programme for greece and cards for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the programme with albania is to be allocated eur 126 million, and the programme with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia eur 103 million. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. these interreg cards programmes are expected to be converted shortly into neighbourhood programmes to promote and strengthen cooperation between greece and albania and between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. pre-accession assistance for turkey will start with the 2004 programme and will include a crossborder cooperation component between turkey and greece, currently amounting to around eur 2 million per year. the aim of this project is to improve cross-border cooperation at local level between greece and turkey and to support the further development of the economic potential of the border regions. it is expected that the funding for these activities will be increased in the coming years. the phare programme for crossborder cooperation between bulgaria and greece, currently worth eur 20 million per year, has focused on infrastructure, in particular the rehabilitation of regional roads leading to the two existing border crossings. the commission also plans to co-finance three new border crossings with access roads, one of which is almost complete. over two thirds of the programme's resources have been allocated to this priority. the environment is the second priority, and following the accession of bulgaria and romania, interreg is promoting crossborder cooperation between greece and bulgaria on both sides of the border.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the question i have to ask is clear: will we have a time-bound and differentiated extension of the territorial scope of this really useful community action? the commission itself confirms that the greek regions in question are facing very serious problems in terms of income, labour market dynamics and human resources.
the workers should expect nothing good from the next summit on november 4-5. the opposite is true. after the first five years of implementation of the tampere decisions which restricted democratic rights and freedoms and the anti-working class strategy of lisbon, they are planning a second five years of offensive, with new more repressive and anti-people measures. the second stage of the process of limiting asylum applications is being accelerated, concentration camps for migrants are being set up outside europe, biometric data are being introduced, opaque and centralised services, eu information systems and mechanisms for the legalisation of repression are being strengthened in the name of crime and terrorism, thus shielding the dictatorship of european capital. the new anti-people measures contained in mr koch's report will also be presented at the summit, and will form the basis for accelerating the anti-worker strategy of lisbon, and decisions will be taken on the militarisation of the eu and its greater participation in the war in iraq, alongside the us. but repressive measures cannot stop the workers' struggle against this belligerent, anti-worker and authoritarian policy and the hopeful course of demanding the satisfaction of their modern needs.
mr president, i would like to ask the president of the committee on international trade, mr barón crespo, to speak first, but the rules of procedure require otherwise. the geostrategic and geo-economic importance of india is obvious. as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade, i should like to focus on the following: it has already been said, and it is a fact, that for the european union india is only the 14th most important trading partner. the european union, on the other hand, is india's main trading partner and the largest source of foreign investment. this is therefore a significant trade relationship, but one which has room for further improvement, as trade and investment are falling short of existing opportunities. as we know, india's large population creates the conditions for a large and growing number of potential consumers of european products. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european union and india have a common interest in working to promote trade and investment, both multilaterally and bilaterally. at the multilateral level, the european union and india should identify common objectives and common ground for the successful outcome of the doha development agenda negotiations. i would like to mention, by way of example, the common interest of both sides in the protection of geographical indications. the potential for further growth and intensification of work exists at bilateral level as well. the eu-india customs cooperation and the dialogue on issues such as investment and intellectual property rights are good bases. in conclusion, i would like to refer to the development policy of india, to which the european union could contribute by giving priority both to the achievement of the overall development objectives of this country and to improvements in governance, environmental well-being, social and economic cohesion, the social security system and the adoption of international labour standards as provided for by the international labour organisation.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr menéndez del valle, for the very important work he has done on his report, and i should also like to thank the dutch presidency, mr nicolaï, and commissioner verheugen for their speeches. mr president, the further development of the european union's relations with india will be a decisive development for world peace, stability, security and development. india is a large regional democracy with a rich history and cultural past. it is also a country of the future, which is steadily and consistently building the foundations of its economic, social, scientific and technological development. the european union and its member states have a strong interest in developing with india a new strategic alliance, a new strategic partnership, and this relationship will contribute to the democratisation of the international system, to the necessary global and regional balances, to the creation of a multipolar world, to the defence of peace, democracy and human rights, to the reform of the un system and to the strengthening of its legitimizing role in the peaceful resolution of crises. india has a long tradition of independent and non-committal foreign policy, as well as participation in international un peacekeeping operations, such as in cyprus. the european union must build on this tradition. i would like to conclude, mr president, by agreeing with what commissioner verheugen said, that we must, and it is a high priority for the european union, develop relations with india in particular in the fields of research, technology and the information society, where india has made enormous progress, as is confirmed by the thousands of indians working in software and information technology companies in europe. the european union must therefore promote educational exchange programmes and research institutes, and implement scholarship programmes immediately.
mr president, the elections and the referendum in belarus were held under intense pressure and unacceptable interference, primarily from the united states of america, which put into operation the so-called 'act 2004' for the so-called democracy in belarus. nato officials also suddenly discovered the belarus-international terrorism relationship. the european union has also moved in the same direction. the announcement by the dutch presidency and the commission on the results of the elections is, in our view, a continuation of the pressure and blackmail against the belarusian government. they violate international law and the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of another state. the allegations by both the european union and the united states of america of alleged violations of democratic rights are hypocritical. the real reasons, as we all know, for the intensified interventions are the refusal of belarus to submit to nato and other imperialist organizations. the reports of the various western observers cannot be trusted because they serve political purposes, let alone are custom made. in addition there are other reports, from russia, china and the commonwealth of independent states, which are different. in our opinion, the only one who is competent and responsible for deciding on its future is the people of belarus, and that is why we condemn and denounce the pressures and interventions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only people who can solve their problems are the people. the european union and the united states of america would obviously be pleased if the elections were held as in afghanistan, iraq, kosovo and bosnia, which are under occupation, which you have turned into protectorates and which, of course, in your opinion, are not ... (the president interrupts)
council. mr president, i can only add that we will also discuss this with russia at the next summit on 11 november.
council. - mr president, the issue of interethnic tensions in vojvodina was raised in the relevant council bodies and in the council itself, namely in the general affairs and external relations council on 13 september 2004. the eu heads of mission in belgrade have been asked to prepare a report on the situation in the province, including a general overview of inter-ethnic relations and more information on recent incidents. the heads of mission report was published on 15 september last. it states that although interethnic intolerance appears to have increased in vojvodina, the incidents - however disturbing - have been generally small-scale and do not appear to be showing a clear trend. the report recommends that a follow-up report be drawn up in due course after the local elections, i.e. from 19 september to 3 october. the competent advisory bodies will review the situation in the light of the follow-up report. in its conclusions on the western balkans of 11 october 2004, the general affairs and external relations council welcomed the commitment given by the government of serbia on 8 september to intensify dialogue with all ethnic communities and looked forward to the implementation of that commitment. the eu will continue to monitor developments in this area. respect for human rights and the rights of minorities is one of the fundamental values of the european union and an objective of the union's foreign and security policy. serbia and montenegro do not currently have a contractual relationship with the european union. the commission will prepare a feasibility report in the coming months to assess whether it can recommend to the council to open negotiations with serbia and montenegro on a stabilisation and association agreement.
i need advice. mr president, thank you for the honourable member's comment. you know that our second report is not yet ready, but i can tell you that we are following the situation closely. i would also like to refer to the council conclusions of 11 october, in which the council welcomed serbia's commitments to dialogue with all ethnic groups. let me say to the questioner and to you, mr president, that i have the impression that the situation has become somewhat calmer since the elections in early october.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. at their informal meeting in early september, the foreign ministers of the european union adopted a two-track approach towards serbia and montenegro, which will comprise one comprehensive stabilisation and association agreement, with two separate negotiated protocols on trade, customs and other sectoral policies clearly falling within the responsibility of the republics of serbia and montenegro. this was a positive gesture towards serbia and montenegro. at the same time, the foreign ministers have opted for the maintenance of the political conditions, including compliance with all international obligations, in particular with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, the icty. the european union consistently calls on all western balkan countries to cooperate with the icty as a sign of their willingness to honour their international obligations and to respect the rule of law, one of the fundamental principles on which the union is founded, in accordance with article 6 of the treaty on european union. the leaders of these countries have pledged to cooperate with the icty on several occasions, including at the western balkans forum on 9 december 2003 which brought together the foreign ministers of the european union and of the region. moreover, the relevant political leaders in serbia and montenegro, including the presidents of the state union and of the two republics, as well as the minister of foreign affairs of serbia and montenegro, have clearly expressed their support for cooperation with the icty.
mr president, i thank the representative of the dutch presidency for his reply, but i would like to point out that in the western balkans we are witnessing a climate of tension and instability on a daily basis. we have seen the absence of the serb minority in the elections in kosovo a few days ago. we have seen the crisis that is brewing in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would like to ask the dutch presidency what it intends to do under these circumstances. we have the european strategy for the western balkans. what will the dutch presidency do? the problems are piling up. the crisis i'm afraid is at our doorstep. i would like to ask the dutch presidency what action it intends to take in the coming months.
i need advice. president. - thank you for your comment. i understand the concerns of the honourable member. the council looks forward with interest to the commission's feasibility study on the opening of negotiations for a possible stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and montenegro on these points. as you know - and i repeat this here - cooperation with the icty is a key point, also in this study. after that, we'll have to look very carefully. but i cannot - and i hope you will understand - anticipate the outcome of this feasibility study.
council. president, freedom of religion is one of the priority areas in the revised accession partnership for turkey adopted by the council on 15 may 2003. under this priority, turkey must create conditions for the functioning of non-muslim religious communities that are in line with the practice of the eu member states. this includes the enjoyment of property rights in accordance with protocol no 1 to the european convention for the protection of human rights. the council is fully aware that non-muslim religious communities, including the ecumenical patriarchate, continue to face problems. although some progress has been made in this area, several problems remain to be resolved, in particular the problem of the legal position of non-muslim religious communities and the registration of property. comprehensive new legislation is still being prepared. in the meantime, the government is rather trying to find ad hoc solutions to the most acute problems. in this context, the situation surrounding the reopening of the chalki seminary also remains unclear at the moment. the council is closely monitoring developments in the field of freedom of religion in turkey in the light of the copenhagen political accession criteria. the union will continue to raise this issue with turkey in the association agreement and political dialogue bodies and at any other appropriate opportunity. it is clear, however, mr president, that the prevention or handling of specific events such as the demonstrations mentioned by the honourable member falls under the exclusive responsibility of the turkish authorities. as the honourable member knows, the commission adopted its recommendations on turkey's accession regulations on 6 october and recommended that negotiations with turkey should be opened under certain conditions. in order to ensure the sustainability and irreversibility of the political criteria, the commission recommends a cooperation strategy to strengthen and support the reform process in turkey, in particular with regard to the continued compliance with the copenhagen political criteria. the pace of reforms will determine the progress of the negotiations. the report, mr president, gives an updated picture of the situation, particularly as regards the armenian and syrian minorities, which is reflected in education systems, school textbooks and language teaching.
mr president, i thank the representative of the dutch presidency. i'd like to ask you two questions. firstly, in all this discussion between the commission and the council with the turkish authorities, have any specific commitments been made by the turkish authorities to meet these criteria? is there a timeline? secondly, given the recent tensions in greek airspace caused by turkish military fighters, does the council intend to include the terms of good neighbourliness and avoidance of provocation in the text to be adopted on 17 december?
mr president, i am afraid i too will be repeating similar questions to my colleagues. i would like to ask you this: the council's spokesman has already told us that turkey does not currently meet the copenhagen criteria, and mr verheugen has said this in a reply to me. my question is: can we start the admission process while the criteria are not met? and if we start, is there a specific timetable, which mr papademosulis mentioned, according to which these must be fulfilled or else the accession procedures will stop? that's what i want to know.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. as to the last question: as you know, there are far-reaching plans to improve cooperation and information exchange within the european union, but the honourable member has rightly pointed out that it is also very important to improve cooperation with bodies outside the european union. the contacts have been made, the improvements are taking place and, in particular, cooperation with the united states was rightly mentioned. mr crowley rightly pointed out that when it comes to the big and indeed growing problem of ecstasy use, it is not just a matter of smuggling from outside the european union into it, but also of what is happening within the european union itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not of course negate the fact that cooperation within the european union is primarily directed at crossborder problems and is in fact - as i understand his remark - also a call to national authorities to take up their responsibility in this respect. the drug strategy has been mentioned and asked about. it is currently being discussed in the justice and home affairs council and i cannot therefore answer the question as to the content of this drug strategy and the priorities we wish to set in it at the moment. i can tell him that the dutch presidency is planning to take a decision on this at the european council in december. so before then, the european parliament can also be informed of our intentions and priorities for the european drugs strategy.
i need advice. mr president, one of the important elements of the millennium development goal, which is to establish a global partnership for development, is sustainable debt relief. the debt problem of developing countries must be tackled in a broad way by means of national and international measures, with a view to making debt sustainable in the long term. in line with the monterrey consensus, adopted by the heads of state or government of the united nations member states in march 2002, the eu recognises that sustainable debt financing is essential to unlock resources for private and public investment, and that external debt relief can play a crucial role in unlocking resources that can be re-invested in activities that promote sustainable growth and development. the achievement of the millennium development goals is a core objective of the european union and more generally of the international communities. the commitments made by the eu member states at the monterrey conference reflect the union's leading role in the international effort to achieve the millennium development goals and should be reflected in the full range of eu policies in its decisions on the allocation of financial resources. in its conclusions of 14 november 2002, the council confirmed its willingness to, and i quote, 'continue efforts to re-establish debt sustainability in the context of the strengthened hipc initiative, so that developing countries, and in particular the poorest, can continue to pursue growth and development without being hampered by the burden of unsustainable debt'. the eu is also looking at how to go beyond the current hipc initiative. at the high level dialogue on financing for development, held in new york in october 2003 in the framework of the 58th united nations general assembly, the eu encouraged all donor and creditor countries that had not yet done so to take up their share of bilateral debt relief and to contribute to the multilateral financing of the hipc initiative. the eu also stressed the importance for the imf and the world bank to report regularly on the compliance of their member states with their hipc obligations, in particular with regard to article 4 on monitoring. it was also suggested that the formal bilateral debt settlement in the paris club should also take account of debtor countries meeting their hipc obligations as creditors. during that dialogue, the eu also expressed its willingness to discuss with the international financial institutions and other donors possible changes in the calculation of the requirements for additional debt relief - topping up - at the endpoint, for those hipc countries whose debt burden is considered unsustainable at that time due to the severe exogenous shocks. it also showed a willingness to study ways of closing the financial gap while ensuring fair burden-sharing. the eu considers that both hipc countries and donor and creditor countries are responsible for sustainable debt repayment in the long term. the question whether it would be a useful initiative for the european commission to set up a debt department, as the world bank has recently done, is not, as you will understand, within my competence but within the competence of the commission.
i need advice. i'm sorry about that, mr. chairman. i am afraid, moreover, that i cannot entirely remove the disappointment or the disappointment. i have tried in my first term to express the importance and the way in which we as the council are involved in this, as well as the political weight and the priority we attach to this, with regard to the whole concrete organization and the aspects mentioned by the honourable member. i refer to the commission again, as he did in his question.
mr president, the number 20, that is to say after four questions, corresponds to my question. i think i'm the last one. in view of the procedure that has been followed and in accordance with what you have said, could you accept a short extension of two or three minutes for my question, please? thank you for understanding.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank mrs záborská and the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality for taking up this extremely important issue. i would also like to thank mrs záborská for her very engaging speech. i cannot agree with you, however, when you say in general terms that the european union has failed to create equal opportunities. from the very beginning of the european union, in both the treaty and the legislation, equal opportunities played a very important role and much has been achieved. but it is true that women, even in the european member states, whether they are employed or unemployed, young or old, are more likely than men to be at risk of poverty and thus of social exclusion. many women have no secure income of their own and are financially dependent on their families or on minimum income. many women of retirement age have no or insufficient pension, either because they have not been employed at all or because they have given up, had to give up or have been part-time. what is particularly alarming is that the burden of poverty, which affects the family as a whole, is disproportionately borne by women. the causes of this are, on the one hand, gender specificity in working life and, on the other hand, the gender division of labour in families. single-parent families, as you have mentioned, again in the majority of cases women with children, are very often in financial distress. and we should have a special respect for single mothers. the negative impact is also potentiated for women who belong to vulnerable or marginalised groups such as immigrants, ethnic minorities or people with disabilities. very often these women are victims of multiple discrimination. this is simply no longer acceptable, and our fight against poverty and social exclusion must start primarily from these points. the efforts of the actors at european and national level to combat female poverty, to combat the feminization of poverty, as you have called it, are reflected in the open method of coordination in the field of social inclusion. although this remains primarily a member state responsibility, the european commission and the social protection committee have an important role to play in ensuring that the principle of gender mainstreaming is effectively implemented. the common objectives on which the process is based also include the gender equality aspect. this aspect shall be fully taken into account in the preparation of the national action plan. the aim of the plan is to provide for specific measures for women. in doing so, member states must ensure that ngos dealing with women's specific concerns are principally involved in the development, follow-up and evaluation of the national action plans. the open method of coordination in the fields of poverty and exclusion is complemented by a community action programme until the end of 2006 and by the promotion of cooperation between member states in combating social exclusion. it is worth noting that one criterion for granting grants, for example in the structural funds, is also based on the promotion of gender equality. as mentioned above, the commission is aware that women of retirement age are particularly at risk of poverty. in this context, the open method of coordination has also been applied to issues such as the adequacy of pensions and the financial sustainability of pension systems. a number of initiatives taken at eu level in recent years have helped to effectively implement the concerns expressed by this house in its 1994 resolution on women's poverty in europe. these include, for example, the introduction of the reversal of the burden of proof in gender equality legislation and the recent directive based on article 13 of the ec treaty, in addition to the measures under the open method of coordination. the european employment strategy has incorporated a gender mainstreaming approach and the structural funds reform has further reinforced the gender equality dimension. we can all agree that effective and targeted strategies require reliable and specific data. gender-disaggregated data are crucial for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. they form the basis for sound indicators. the open method of coordination in the area of social exclusion uses a set of common indicators, complemented by national data, as a framework for exchange and analysis. all indicators are to be broken down by gender by default. in addition, the indicators need to be broken down by age to give special consideration to children and child poverty. the commission regularly publishes quantitative information on poverty and social exclusion, broken down by gender and age. i can assure you that the commission is aware of the problems of women's poverty. it also knows that poverty is one of the main foundations and causes of trafficking in women and other forms of sexual exploitation. i would like to stress that none of us, neither the european institutions nor the member states nor society, can accept that women are victims of sexual or other forms of exploitation. we must continue to act decisively and make additional efforts to combat the existing causes. we need to ensure that women have more economic opportunities, gain more economic independence and have full access to economic resources, support services and education.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last wednesday i was in geneva, switzerland, to attend an event. i noticed a large billboard in a billboard box, which reminded me that there is poverty in society. it caught my attention and i immediately thought that such a sign would have a place in our own societies, in the european union. unfortunately, this is something that we all need to be aware of, including those of us who are responsible for policy and are in daily contact with reality, because it is something that offends our democracy and calls into question the effectiveness of our policies. the evidence we have is both revealing and disturbing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation is also not uniform, which is something we have to deal with particularly, to see why elsewhere the situation is better and what good results are being achieved. from sweden to ireland and from the southern countries to the new member states, everywhere the situation is very serious for certain groups, such as the unemployed, single parents, the elderly living alone, large families. in all these groups women are the majority. the questions and demands of the citizens of the european union, and especially of women, are very acute. we all experienced them during the european elections. it's too close to that period. the debate on the constitution will focus on these issues in my experience. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. the debate on the financial perspective for 2007-13, the new regulation on the structural funds, the budget for the following year give us many opportunities to look carefully at this matter. but it is not just the financial instruments we will put in place for employment and social support policies. we need a better qualitative approach to evaluating our policies. we have to see if the money we have is going to work out, at least as we hope and expect it to. is the european commission and the council satisfied (at least today, as is the case in such discussions) with the evaluation of the national action plans for employment, the national action plans for social inclusion, the results of the coordination, to which you referred, commissioner? do they get to the root of the problems and the results? is the gender dimension really included? the committee on women's rights has made many insistences and has made many suggestions for effective and substantive gender integration. but this requires special studies and surveys, the collection of statistics by category and also indicators, as you mentioned, commissioner, and we need, of course, to look at all this at a level of harmonisation of the data we collect, because the data in some member states of the european union are not harmonised. harmonization is necessary to enable us to collect real data and to have comparative tables, which will allow us to make better use of our policies for the exchange of good practice. i believe that this is necessary not only for our cohesion in the europe of 25 but also for the preparation of a new enlargement and for the achievement of the objectives of development aid in our external relations.
the commissioner, poverty and social exclusion, where women predominate in the 20 per cent of households, compared with 19 per cent of those headed by men, is the modern form of social misery, the violation of human rights of the 20th and 21st centuries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a new social map is needed, based on a specific and integrated strategy to tackle poverty and social exclusion in all social strata, and especially women. at european level, the main policy to combat poverty is the establishment of a minimum income guarantee, which can be implemented by women living below the poverty line. this policy will ensure that all the population enjoys a satisfactory income. the minimum income is the one which should be used as a transitional stage for women's reintegration into employment and combined with development policies within and outside the community, with social security and health, social welfare, housing, child-rearing, education and training, agricultural development and employment policies. the cooperation of all the countries of the european union, of local and regional authorities, is important and necessary to reduce the new features of poverty, migration and the emergence of newly poor groups. the commission is aware that the social policies, the community policies and the structural funds do not give priority to the fight against poverty. but the member states, like the community, are strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy, not social issues such as women and poverty. the modern european model, commissioner, cannot be stigmatised by marginalized social groups, such as women who are at the bottom of the poverty ladder.
mr president, on the joint resolution on ukraine, i voted against. i am sure that democracy in ukraine does not work according to our standards; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but since we are on the eve of the elections that are to be held there, and the resolution mentions complaints which i have not yet personally crossed, no matter how much i have tried to get information on this, i believe that the resolution goes too far, perhaps even being considered as an interference in the internal affairs of a country. i reserve the right to express my personal opinion after my trip to ukraine. i'm off the case for now.
in writing. i believe that in ukraine, a country that has recently regained its freedom, institutions and democracy cannot function according to our standards. the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. i am wary of these complaints about ukraine because i do not have clear information about the situation and i consider this period to be particularly sensitive because we are at the end of the pre-election period, on the eve of the election and i am afraid that this resolution and its contents will be seen as an interference in the internal affairs of the country and, above all, as an influence on public opinion. i shall be visiting ukraine in the next few days and i reserve the right to express no opinion at this time by abstaining from the vote. for the time being, i wish for peaceful and fair elections and a responsible democratic government that will bring prosperity to the people and constructive relations with the eu.
mr president, the dominant imperialist powers, which have either supported or encouraged extreme religious fanaticism to dominate many countries, bear enormous responsibilities. and i answer the predecessor who spoke from across the hall. in august and september 1988 thousands of progressive patriots, communists, trade unionists, democrats, including 38 leading figures of the tudeh party of iran, were executed, inhumanely tortured or imprisoned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation is indeed unacceptable. we express our solidarity with the people of iran. we believe that he must put an end to this regime. we also support the request made to the un by the families of the victims of the 1988 massacre to be informed of the fate of their missing relatives. i would like to point out, however, that we are facing a new project of the type of iraq, which the united states of america has announced, calling iran a country belonging to the axis of evil. this plan was adopted by nato and is part of the broader middle east plan agreed at the nato summit in istanbul last june and accepted by the european union. these forces are trying, by projecting human rights, which are indeed being trampled on in iran, or the production of nuclear weapons by iran, to secure the consent or tolerance of the peoples to unleash new wars, not for human rights but for control of oil and the region. the people this time, we warn you, will not fall for the trap. those of you who dream of a new iraq will be sorely disappointed, for all of humanity will rise up.
mr president, the european citizens are faced with two new food scandals: on the one hand, dutch dioxins and, probably, on the other, as the diagnostic test has shown so far, the appearance of mad cow disease in sheep and goats for the first time. the commission has already taken action to ensure that the european union's food safety policy is not distorted by the use of dioxin in the production of foodstuffs. i am protesting because there is no information from the dutch authorities, which is the presidency, and from the european commission as to what products have been sent to other member states, so as to protect consumers. i call for greater transparency, immediate information and full public disclosure of the analyses concerning both cases. the european union needs to take care of public health as well as the market, so as to avoid the introduction of suspect products into the food chains.
mr president, for a week now, american occupation troops have been committing a heinous crime in the iraqi city of fallujah. they indiscriminately bomb homes, murder civilians, destroy the entire city. tens of thousands of residents of the city are in danger, in addition to the bombings, from the power outage and the lack of water. the occupation forces and their collaborators are preventing the residents from leaving, they are not even giving information about the civilians and much less about the dead. your interlocutor, mr. president, mr. alawi, forbids the announcement of the deaths in the city of fallujah. they forbid the red crescent and the red cross from giving any help. this is an atrocity for which there are enormous political responsibilities both from the european union, which legitimized the war and the occupation forces, and from the political groups which approved the recent resolution on iraq, which gave the american intervention a boost. the crime against the people of iraq must stop. and that can only happen with the withdrawal of the occupying troops. now, you who speak of human rights, why are you silent in the face of this crime?
mr president, as you know, the european commission has proposed a regulation establishing a pre-accession assistance instrument (pai). this proposal is positive in that it consolidates and simplifies the management of existing programmes for the acceding countries and the potential candidate countries of south-eastern europe. as the ipa will cover areas such as, inter alia, institution building, regional and cross-border cooperation, it is necessary to link the provision of the envisaged assistance to strict policy conditionality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our message must be clear. the challenge of european integration requires that differences be overcome through dialogue, mutual understanding and consensus.
mr president, the detection of dioxins, carcinogens, in dairy and animal products produced in member states of the european union is a threat to consumers. the new food scandal proves that the problem is political and that before any legislative intervention we should put our finger on the tip of the spear. the laws of super-profit and obscene profit applied to the management of the food chain are the main ones responsible for the degradation of food quality. as long as production is intensified, as long as the food chain is under the direction and control of the large multinationals in the sector, which determine the way food is produced and the quality of food on the basis of the cost/benefit ratio, there will in no case be effective guarantees for the health of consumers. the adoption of regulations does not change the nature of production. if the production process is not changed to exclude the use of illegal and dangerous methods of production, processing and transport of food, criminal activities against public health will continue. the food hazards revealed in the last period... the president interrupts the speaker.
council. i cannot add very much. i tried to explain in relation to the first question and also to mr von wogau's question. with regard to the second question, it is a tradition that we choose greek, roman or latin figures as names for operations and activities. i suppose that it was chosen for this reason.
council. mr president, unfortunately i cannot be precise enough to answer the second question. as to the first question, i fully agree with the importance of the remark and the issue itself.
mr president, i am sorry to interrupt before we begin the debate on mrs rothe's important report, but because my intervention is relevant, i ask for the floor now. i have some information, and i would ask you to check it, that the tabling office is presenting or is about to present for a vote an arbitrary provision of amendments to mrs rothe's report. when i was informed of this, i shouted, and perhaps, because the walls here have ears, the service has already learned of it and made the appropriate change. if he has not done so, i stress if he has not made the change, please very much notify the deputy secretary-general, mr rømer, that he must make the change and remind him that when we voted in the previous bureau to create the tabling office we made it clear that the tabling office has no political competence. i am sure that the presentation of the amendments by the tabling office is concealed by political expediency, which i denounce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the team. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr samuelsen and mrs rothe, for the very responsible work they have done in their reports. first of all, the european agency for reconstruction, based in thessaloniki, has played a decisive role in the reconstruction of the wider balkan region, in the creation of the necessary infrastructure, in the building of democratic institutions, in the promotion of the rule of law and in the defence of human rights in the balkan countries. the strategy is the only credible proposal for the peaceful reconstruction of the balkans and the strengthening of their european perspective. for this reason, mr president, it is more than necessary to extend the service's operation until the end of december 2006 and to provide for the examination of the possibility of extending its operation beyond that date, since developments in the balkans will be significant both in 2005 and in the period thereafter and policies are needed to consolidate stability and security in the balkans. i would ask mr patten to ask the commission to report to the council and the european parliament on this. the effective operation, transparency and deep knowledge of the reconstruction process in the wider area by the agency are the guarantee for the extension of the competence and the implementation of financial assistance to the turkish cypriot community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this money should be given to the turkish cypriot community, because it will help the turkish cypriot citizens and the turkish cypriot society, it will contribute to economic development, to the integration of the european acquis, to the formation of the necessary infrastructure and to the creation of jobs. in other words, they will help to create the conditions for the reunification of cyprus by developing contacts, dialogue and exchanges between the two communities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not fund intolerance. we fund the dialogue. the european commission and the reconstruction agency must be particularly careful here too, acting in cooperation with the republic of cyprus and in compliance with the principles of european law. in conclusion, mr president, i would ask the presidency to take a position on the issue of the accusation of financial aid to the turkish cypriot community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance is not used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
on behalf of the team. mr president, i listened carefully to mr patten and his arguments. firstly, on procedural matters, i am not sure that mr patten is legitimately in the chamber, since the prodi committee had a mandate until 31 october. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly used. and i believe that this matter will be settled in the luxembourg court. it is not the fault of the north that the development of the south is uneven, when the north is the most fertile and the most touristic region. it's the occupying army. the european union has not yet been able to take action on the situation in the middle east, and it is not yet clear whether the european union will be able to take action on the situation in the middle east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. the occupying army must be withdrawn and cyprus returned to its former position, following the zurich and london agreements signed by england, of which the commissioner is, of course, an outstanding son. the occupying army must leave, calm must return to the island, the 1960 constitution must be implemented and then economic prosperity will automatically come to northern cyprus. as long as there is an occupying army, there will be no prosperity. the money will be lost. we must therefore dare to find a realistic solution. if we had not expelled saddam hussein from kuwait, would we be today financially strengthening the occupied kuwait? if we had not driven milosevic out of bosnia, would we be funding milosevic today? so why don't we do the same with turkey? tell her to get off the island so that northern cyprus can develop. nobody wants poor neighbors. and above all, the greek cypriots do not want to have poor neighbours. if you dare to drive out the occupying army - the only occupying army in a european country - growth will automatically follow.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs rothe and, of course, mr samuelsen on their reports and to say that i shall of course be dealing more with mrs rothe's report. it is a fact that the report, as it has been drawn up after discussions and votes in the committee on foreign affairs, is very correct and therefore the decision which follows from the report on financial aid for the development of the turkish cypriot community is also a very correct decision. and it's a decision that we all support. we believe that these funds will contribute to the overall development of the turkish cypriot community, so that when the cyprus problem is resolved - and we hope that this will happen soon - with the reunification of cyprus, the turkish cypriot community will be at the same high level as the greek one. i would like to say, however, that since there has also been a statement from the council, the regulation on financial aid is one issue, while the regulation on trade relations is another. and there may be a logic in linking the two, but i would recommend very great care in the matter of the regulation on direct trade relations. i am sure that the council's proceedings will take this into account and that the solution which will be given - when it is given - will be fair and correct. finally, a word on the positive role of the european agency for reconstruction, which is also located in thessaloniki, in my country, and i would like to express my hope and agreement that the financial aid to the turkish cypriots will be managed in accordance with the european union's regulations.
mr president, the initiative to adopt the resolution by the european parliament's plenary, which is an initiative of the socialist group, comes at a particularly critical time for the european union's relations with cuba, for the cuban people and for the future of the country. i would add that it is also about our collective credibility as institutions of the european union. cuba has for many years been subject to the unacceptable, unilateral and vindictive policy of isolation, the commercial and economic blockade of the united states, which has driven the cuban people into poverty and the regime into hardship. unfortunately, this dead-end policy, characterized by a selective sensitivity to human rights and democratic freedoms, has been followed by the european union in its decisions to impose sanctions and to freeze contacts and dialogue. the result was extremely negative on all levels. the aim was not achieved, as the european public itself, ngos, and business and cultural bodies ignored the official policy of the european union by continuing contacts and cooperation with cuban society. we have to be honest. the situation of human rights, the rule of law, democratic freedoms in cuba is not good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. where this policy has been pursued, the people have paid the price. the european union, and in particular the council of ministers, must radically reconsider its deadlocked position and move forward boldly to the immediate lifting of sanctions and the freezing of relations with cuba. to institutionalize the political dialogue as a process of advancing relations and as a process of monitoring the behaviour of the cuban authorities. to open negotiations for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement. the european union has no such agreement with cuba. the european commission should also increase the funding of programmes in the fields of humanitarian aid and infrastructure. the recent natural disasters have created serious problems for the cuban people. finally, the european union should immediately implement its decision to include cuba in the cotonou agreement in the context of relations with the african, caribbean and pacific countries. the cuban people cannot be subjected to a double punishment, both by the united states and by the european union. if the struggle to defend human rights and build a democratic society in cuba is genuine and not pretentious, then the european union must listen to the voice of european public opinion, of our peoples, and proceed with the lifting of sanctions and the development of relations and contacts with cuba.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very important that the european council has confirmed the validity of the lisbon process and the need to give it a boost, and it is a good coincidence that this objective is at the top of the political agenda of the new european commission, which i believe will receive a vote of confidence from our parliament tomorrow and begin its work. we are therefore looking forward with great interest to the european commission's proposals in view of the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. this mid-term review, which will take place during the spring european council, is a good opportunity for our honest assessment and intervention in cooperation with the member states, national governments and social partners at all levels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it covers all policies that directly affect citizens: unemployment, poverty, insecurity in the labour market, quality in education, health, social protection. the report by mr wim kok will be an important tool in our work on this mid-term review and the new impetus we must give. we must certainly find ways of bringing this strategy closer to citizens and organised social actors, because without their participation we cannot succeed in such complex policies. this is directly linked to the wider presentation of the commission to citizens and it is important and encouraging that the november european council addressed the issue of an effective information policy and communication strategy for european union policy. we must not forget the results of the european elections, which have shown us that the people are distanced from the development of the european project. it is not the first time we have pointed this out, but it is time we realised it. it is time to realize that the communication and information policies we have implemented in all the previous years have not worked. we need to mobilise because we are faced with major social and strategic choices, enlargement choices which require both information and participation by the citizens.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, a greek friend who recently visited the netherlands told me that what impressed him most positively was that the police on the streets of amsterdam created the feeling that they existed to protect the citizen and his diversity, and not to watch and suspect him. the tragic events of van gogh and the extremists on the other side show, sadly, how terrorism works and what it seeks: to finally dispel these self-evident facts. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the violence of the people of europe, and the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the violence of the people of europe. the dutch presidency should therefore be congratulated on the fact that on the very same days of these appalling events it was organising an informal meeting of the 11 common principles on integration. you've got the right emphasis. the integration. no police work. i would like to make three comments on this: firstly, the hague five-year programme, which we are discussing today, provides for specific funds for the return of migrants and border policing, but does not provide for a specific fund for integration, although integration is one of the key actions. we are asking for a commitment that funding for integration will be given the same priority, so that we do not just talk. secondly, when we are making integration policies, we cannot ignore the fact that we have millions of european citizens in countries all over the world who are migrants themselves. their experience cannot be ignored. in this respect we must be prepared to give immigrants who settle in the countries of the european union the same level of treatment that we require for european immigrants in third countries. otherwise we're not consistent. thirdly, attention to individual rights when dealing with terrorism. biometric data in passports and other similar measures may be important, but they may also add little to security compared to what they take away from civil liberties. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i am looking at the november council conclusions on the union's foreign policy. i should like to say that while i consider it very positive that the council has dealt with four subjects of european foreign policy, the facts are that we are giving priority to at least two at the moment. the first concerns the situation in iraq. there is war again, and war is condemnable, as, of course, are acts of terrorism and kidnappings. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the iraqi people are suffering from a war in iraq, but that the iraqi people are suffering from a war in iraq, and that the iraqi people are suffering from a war in iraq. the first step in this process is certainly the elections. the elections in iraq must be held and the largest possible number of forces must be involved, so that these elections are not an end in themselves but a means to make iraq a progressive democracy. the second issue, which is parallel and related, is the situation in the middle east. the post-arafat era is certainly a new page in the history of this region. the european union has a duty, above all, to intervene to ensure that yasser arafat's political will is respected. the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's economic and political decisions.
in writing. the proposed directive also privatises the certification of seeds for sowing, which is converted into a profit-making business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not affected by the quality of the products themselves. the report finds that the new method does not significantly reduce the quality of the seeds! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and the question is: why propose to replace a system when the new one not only does not improve the existing one but is worse and more expensive? the aim is to increase the profitability of private capital, which will not only produce and market but also certify and reduce the corresponding public expenditure in the member states, which will be passed on to farmers in large numbers. the penalties provided for in the directive for private individuals are of no significance to farmers, because they neither protect them from damage nor compensate them. in my country, vegetable seeds that were supposedly guaranteed by the production company were degraded, resulting in the farmers who used them going bankrupt, not being compensated and being involved in fruitless and costly legal proceedings. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. the argo programme was adopted in june 2002 in the run-up to the seville conference (known for its anti-migration and repressive decisions), provided for the financing of joint actions by at least three member states in the field of border protection with eur 25 million, and was to run for four years. the funds were not absorbed, not because there was disagreement over the orientation of the programme, but because the ruling class in each eu country wants (for now at least) to be in charge of its own borders and to decide in its own interests how many migrants it is in its interest to let off the hook. the commission's proposal to the council under discussion, however, provides for doubling the initial amount and even funding individual initiatives by each member state, which clearly demonstrates the eu's determination to protect a european area of repression and policing. the pilot project is clearly intended to prepare the ground for what is being done more clearly today in the light of the new, more reactive programme of the hague conference, which succeeded the tampere conference and was decided at the recent summit. the report by parliament is fully in line with the decision of the eu institutions and the commission proposal. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the european union, through the european agency for reconstruction, which has been the vehicle for the economic and political manipulation of the states which emerged after the dirty interventions in the balkans, is taking a new step towards the euro-division of cyprus. the commission, following the refusal of the cypriot people to accept the bipartite annan plan, in effect considering cyprus as a third country, is incorporating the financing of occupied cyprus into the european agency for the reconstruction of the balkans! the decision taken today shows that the accession of cyprus to the eu is being used to accept, in effect, the direct or indirect partition of the island. the financing decision recognises the turkish-occupied northern part of cyprus as an independent state. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo, calling on the government of the democratic republic of congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the democratic republic of congo is brought under control.
in writing. the european reconstruction agency is an eu mechanism for control, economic plunder and political manipulation of the peoples of the states in the balkans, which were formed after the overthrow of the former socialist countries, by us, nato and eu military interventions, and led to the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the bloodshed of the peoples. such 'aid' is a mockery and an alibi for political manipulation, capital strengthening and capitalist restructuring in the states of the region. the criminal bombing of yugoslavia with depleted uranium by the usa, nato and the eu, with the victims of thousands of people, the destruction of monuments and the widespread destruction of the environment, have painful consequences for the peoples of the balkans. the problems in the balkans and the wider region are not being solved, where the imperialist powers themselves have nurtured a nationalistic hatred in order to justify their interventions and military presence in the region. the increased unemployment rates, poverty and poverty in the countries of the wider region are a time bomb whose fuse is ready to be ignited by the us and the eu, encouraging the grand ideological aspirations of albanian nationalists in the wider balkan region. we believe that all foreign interference must be stopped and that foreign troops must be withdrawn from the area... (reasoning for the vote, abridged in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. the title of the debate itself is a challenge to the peoples who mourn the dead of the new imperialist order and a challenge to the eu workers who pay dearly for the equipment. it is ironic that such a debate should take place when the eu is promoting the financing of military research, the development of the military industry, the increase in sales of all types of weapons to various countries. references to children who are victims of conflict are offensive to the intelligence of the people when the eu intervenes militarily in countries to increase its influence and control new markets by fomenting local, regional crises and conflicts. when its member countries, and itself, ally itself with occupation armies. references to smuggling, and especially to the increased use of private security companies or the provision of military and police services, is a monument to hypocrisy because it is precisely the arms companies and the eu itself that are promoting these policies. the european union is a military power, and it is cooperating with the united states and nato against the people. it has no right to refer to codes of conduct for arms exports and disarmament. the promotion of disarmament can be achieved through the struggles of the peoples to overthrow the dominant political forces. it is an illusion to expect such measures from a europe of imperialism and war.
in writing. the commission's statements and the eu's decision to organise the operation codenamed 'althea', to send a 7,000-strong expeditionary force to bosnia and herzegovina to change the guard - to replace the occupying us and nato military forces, confirm the eu's aggressive-imperialist character and its alignment with the us strategy against the peoples. the new body of the euro-army aims to maintain the occupation in the balkans, to protect and promote the interests of capital in the wider region. the eu's demagogic declarations that the alleged sending of a military force to bosnia-herzegovina is contributing to a 'transition to democracy' is a challenge to the balkan peoples who have paid with blood and misery for the imperialist military interventions in the region. the latest developments after the us intervention in fyrom, despite the discussions with greece in the un framework, the fact that 2005 is crucial for the situation in kosovo, in the context of the rivalries and interventions of the imperialists in the wider region, creates an explosive field for the peoples. the peoples of yugoslavia, the balkans in general, must fight unitedly against the imperialist plans and interventions to remove all foreign troops and bases from the region.
in writing. the resolution is a wish list that falls short of the serious problem that threatens the future of the planet. while it is positive that direct benefit measures are supported, they are not explicitly mentioned. they are limited to renewable energy sources, energy efficiency improvements and energy production from biomass, and do not include other measures such as the use of biofuels as a partial substitute for fossil fuels, the use of more of the thermal energy produced in power plants, the improvement of available techniques to emit less greenhouse gases (ghg) per unit of energy produced, the substantial protection and use of forests as a vehicle for co2 in the atmosphere. the eu's efforts to be a 'role model' are undermined by commission figures showing the eu-15 falling far short of the target of reducing ghg emissions by 8% by 2010 compared to 1990. we find our categorical and unwavering opposition to the marketing of the a.t.c. as ineffective and hypocritical. the resolution not only accepts but also encourages the trade in pollutants, proving that multinationals and their political representatives can pollute only if they pay, that is to say, they have little interest in actually reversing this dangerous trend, and we shall vote against it.
in writing. the commission's statements that the eu is 'well' disposed to implement a new policy towards cuba are related to the better, more effective management of its economic interests and trade relations with latin america. they do not constitute a change of policy. together with the united states they are trying to overthrow socialism on the island of revolution. that is why they have put up with the shameful us embargo for so many years and do not condemn the new measures it has imposed on cuba. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate. they're silent in the face of the palace's vile statements. we express our solidarity with the government and people of cuba and its revolution, demand an end to the embargo, denounce the new us measures, stop the imperialist interventions inside cuba and support mercenaries who baptize dissidents and political prisoners. we support the normalization of relations with cuba and the lifting of the measures taken by the eu. we support cuba's request to sign the cotonou agreement. the defence of cuba is a matter for the peoples. it is the duty of every progressive man to uphold the ideals of independence, freedom and socialism which is the answer to imperialist barbarity.
in writing. the summit of the european council on 4-5 november took decisions of strategic importance to accelerate the anti-people and repressive policy which will ruthlessly strike the mass popular movement and the workers of europe over the next five years. the accelerated implementation of the lisbon strategy and the stifling control of the implementation process by the member states, as contained in the kok report, show that european monopolies are rushing to implement the working age of part-time and temporary work, without hours, security and rights for workers. at the same time, because they believe that popular mobilizations will intensify, they are shielding their inhumane exploitative system with new repressive measures, the hague programme. under the pretext of migration policy, the prevention and fight against terrorism, biometric data are introduced, information exchange aggregates are strengthened, they make up "a strategy for dealing with crises within the eu, affecting vital infrastructure, public order and security in the eu", as they claim. the european monopolies are being shielded against the rising popular movement. they also claim a share of the spoils in iraq and that is why they have reinforced the occupying government of iraq with hundreds of millions of euros of the people's money, at the same time calling the iraqi resistance terrorist violence. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union.
mr president, mr barroso, your first name is manuel, which in greek is pronounced manolis or manolios. the new commission reminds me of the greek proverb that says 'manolis has changed and put on his hat differently'. in place of the unclaimed mr. butillione in the sensitive portfolio of justice, you propose mr. fratini, the protégé of mr. berlusconi, who has granted him immunity. at the same time, it keeps the dutchwoman mrs kroes in the competition portfolio, even though her career path shows that she is completely unsuitable. the new commission you propose is very neoliberal, much more right-wing than the european parliament. for months you've been advertising yourself as an independent. but it is a one-eyed and selective independence. you say 'no' sometimes to the french and german governments, but you always say 'yes' to the governments of italy and the netherlands, which say, like you, 'yes' to mr bush, which you did in the azores. i am very sorry, but let us be clear, mr barroso, this is not at all politically correct.
madam president, the changes that mr barroso was forced to make were the result of the european parliament's firm stance. we are also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we don't write a blank check. we are particularly concerned and we are asking for guarantees that competition policy will be effective and that effective control will be ensured in cases of conflict of interest. we call for the implementation of commitments on civil liberties and non-discrimination and will monitor the european commission closely in this area. we call for the strengthening of the agreement on institutional relations with the european parliament. and above all, we ask you, mr barroso, in presenting the commission's programming statements to focus on sustainable growth, employment, solidarity and cohesion and to strengthen europe's role as a force for peace and cooperation. madam president, mr barroso, with a sense of responsibility to the citizens of europe, we will judge strictly. we will monitor on a daily basis the political initiatives, policies and actions of the european commission and the implementation of your commitments. i repeat, we do not write a blank check.
madam president, mr barroso, on 27 october you proved that the positions you expressed from the same podium in your election speech in july were both solid and accurate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on 27 october you heard parliament's voice and acted accordingly, respecting parliament's role and the confidence it placed in you in july. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. you yourself have said that the main role of the president of the european commission is to manage the dynamic consensus that europe needs, and you have shown that you are already following this principle faithfully. we believe that the new composition you have presented is more effective in responding to the issues of prosperity, solidarity and security. i am, however, holding to your statement that if a member of the commission is unable to fulfil his obligations, you will not hesitate to ask for his resignation. this, combined with your emphasis on democratic control of parliament, gives us guarantees of sound management. we, the 11 greek meps of the european people's party, will vote in favour of the commission, but we will be watching your work closely and will be critical of you if we find that you have deviated from your obligations. we wish you broad support for your new commission and good success in your difficult task josé manuel durão barroso.
council. the council is not aware of the details concerning the issuing and handling of the international arrest warrant and requests for extradition referred to by the honourable member of parliament. neither is it for the council to determine whether turkey has acted in breach of its international obligations in this specific case. the interpol alert issued pursuant to this decision is not based on an eu instrument or on an international instrument binding the european union and turkey. the matter raised by the honourable member therefore seems to fall squarely within the domestic jurisdiction of the countries concerned, and it is therefore not for the council to express itself on this matter.
madam president, mr president, the european parliament had called in a resolution after these events for all necessary measures to be taken to bring to justice those responsible for these murders and the shooting of unarmed demonstrators. i do not know what interpol is and what it is not, but does the council intend to do something to respond to what the european parliament itself has called for in its resolution?
commission mr president, mr rapporteur, the commission has looked with interest at the ombudsman's activity report for 2003. you know that this debate comes at a crucial moment, at a time when the new parliamentary term has just begun and the procedure for appointing the future european ombudsman is under way. during the previous debate on the european ombudsman's activity report for 2002, the commission had the opportunity to congratulate the first european ombudsman, mr söderman, on his role in the establishment of the european system of mediation. and i would like to congratulate his successor, mr diamandouros, who took office in april 2003 and who has made his institution more effective in promoting good governance, respect for the rule of law and human rights. this is a valuable contribution for the commission and for european citizens in general. the commission considers that the development of contacts with national and regional authorities, responsible for mediation between citizens and public administrations in the member states, has improved the role of the european ombudsman and made the institution known to european citizens, as the ombudsman pointed out. this is of paramount importance, because if we have institutions which are not known, they will not be used, and their usefulness will not be demonstrated. the commission, like the ombudsman, takes note of the increase in the number of complaints to the ombudsman and considers that this increase should continue as, in particular, the effects of enlargement become felt. i also agree with the ombudsman that an increase in the number of complaints does not mean that the situation on the ground is not good; it simply means that citizens are becoming more aware of their rights, which is a good thing. as regards the handling of cases, the commission welcomes the fact that in many cases the european authorities have taken appropriate steps to find a solution. as regards the amendment of the ombudsman's statute, it is now for parliament to take the initiative and decide by majority, with the approval of the council, the commission issuing only an opinion. but you can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission will look at any new initiative carefully and with an open mind. the commission did not want to act hastily on the code of good administrative behaviour, which would be binding on all the institutions and bodies of the european union. the commission's code, which was largely inspired by the ombudsman's proposals, entered into force in november 2000. the first implementation report, which covers 2001 only, does not yet provide the necessary background for the launch of a proposal for an interinstitutional code. we will therefore continue to work on the more comprehensive data base to see if and how the code needs to be reformed. the commission agrees with parliament's proposals concerning epso, the newly created interinstitutional body whose task is to draw up lists of candidates for the general competitions, according to the needs expressed by each institution. the rules and practices on transparency and openness, which have been established over the years, in particular through the ombudsman's work, must be respected in the selection procedures. the commission supports parliament's call on the union's institutions and bodies to implement the regulation on the right of access to documents. the commission recalls that regulation 1049/2001 now also applies to community agencies, which should facilitate the resolution of various complaints. as regards access to documents in the context of infringement proceedings, the commission should have the necessary leeway to conduct its investigations in full autonomy. a balance must be struck between the principle of transparency and the confidentiality required for the dialogue between the commission and the member states. the commission's practice in this area is in accordance with the case law of the court of first instance. for infringement proceedings which are closed, the commission has revised its practice and documents are often made available on a case-by-case basis. that is what the commission wanted to say at the moment, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the report presented. the commission would also like to express its sincere thanks to the committee on petitions for its excellent work, on behalf of the commission and on behalf of the citizens. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind the president that 15 years ago i was chairman of this committee. the committee on petitions is doing a great job of serving the public.
, on behalf of the team. mr president, the annual report for 2003, which the european ombudsman has submitted to the president of our parliament and presented to the committee on petitions, deserves our approval, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the report by mr de rossa and the resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must all take note of its key conclusions and take them into account for further action. we must take account of the information provided and ask that the lack of openness and transparency in the functioning of the european institutions be addressed. the fact that 75% of complaints do not fall within the remit of the european ombudsman is not negative for the institution, because they were referred to other bodies. what is important for us, however, is the analysis of 25% of the admissible complaints, two thirds of which concern the european commission, the community institution which takes decisions with an impact on citizens. there were complaints about the european parliament and the council, but also about services such as the personnel selection office. it would seem, however, that even taking into account the 40% increase in complaints announced by mr diamantouros for 2004, few of the 425 million european citizens have recourse to the european ombudsman, an institution which is already celebrating its 10th anniversary and which has been served with acknowledged success and strengthened by the presence of both the first ombudsman, mr söderman, and his current successor, mr nikiforos diamantouros. but we, the elected representatives of the european citizens, cannot allow even one of them to be deprived of the benefits of articles 41, 42 and 43 of the charter of fundamental rights, which is now part of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, as approved by the council. because they may not recognise out-of-court remedies, but if, according to article 1 (2) of the new constitution, decisions should be taken as openly and as closely as possible to the citizen, the role of the european ombudsman, as well as that of the administrative commissioners, is a guarantee of good administration, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we must not forget that our commitments to make the institution more efficient must be fulfilled and we welcome the commissioner's statements. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the european ombudsman is particularly honoured to be carrying out five inquiries on his own initiative, with the most characteristic case being that of the european institutions' action to eliminate discrimination against disabled people. as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions, i would also like to thank you for the correct and reciprocal transfer of cases, for the benefit of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european elections last june, the abstentionist vote was a big winner. the european citizens, we all agree, have sent a clear message in every direction. they do not see this europe as expressing, affecting or protecting them in their daily lives. the european union's policy has been met with the contempt it has been subjected to on a daily basis, particularly by young people, women and socially excluded groups of citizens in general. however, contrary to this general trend, we find that the trust of european citizens in the institution of the european ombudsman is growing exponentially. the figures show that the number of asylum applications by european citizens is expected to increase by 40% this year alone. if we interpret these facts, beyond the confirmation that the institution was well represented by both mr söderman and my compatriot mr diamantouro, we find that the european citizen rewards an institution that offers him the satisfaction of the obvious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we often talk about the democratic deficit, the lack of transparency or political will in a way that forces my generation to automatically classify them as clichéd expressions of politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that the new constitution enshrines the institution of the ombudsman and promotes, perhaps not perfectly, but certainly better than today, transparency and democratic participation in the union. if we support both, perhaps in the next elections we will be pleasantly surprised - this time. perhaps we can begin to regain the confidence of citizens and persuade them to become more involved in the european commons. europe is changing. that was the slogan of the last european elections. personally, i'm convinced of it. it is up to all of us to change it in a positive direction.
in writing. we voted against the barroso nomination and the new commission because they represent the continuation and hardening of the eu's anti-people, authoritarian and warmongering policy. the withdrawal of the proposal and the change of some commissioners were due to internal contradictions and the attempt to find persons who would implement the same policy more effectively in order to provide a 'democratic' pretext for a new consensus between the social democratic and conservative parties. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the statements by the new commissioners-designate confirm our assessment that they will serve the interests of capital with passion. they defended the promotion and implementation of the reactionary constitutional treaty, the authoritarian-terrorist programme for the workers of the hague, the acceleration of new anti-working class measures of the lisbon strategy, the escalation of the imperialist aggressiveness of the eu. the socialist group, the greens, the liberals and all those who celebrated the change of some commissioners as a victory for democracy are deceiving the people about the policy and the character of the eu. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and to vote on the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work.
mr president, it is the self-evident responsibility of every progressive citizen to defend democratic freedoms in ukraine without foreign interference. the european union's obligation is to remain firm in matters of principle and not to adopt selective approaches as some have been quick to do. the only objective must be to contribute to a peaceful and democratic solution by the european union, through the holding of the second round of the presidential elections in conditions of full freedom, in order to bring ukraine out of the political impasse and to avoid any risk of destabilisation, which would have dramatic consequences for security and peace in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union cannot allow ukraine to become a ball between conflicting interests. it would be a strategic mistake for the european union to be caught in the dilemma between europe and russia. the european union must in these critical hours talk to all the political forces in ukraine, win the confidence of the entire ukrainian people and not back one side or the other. our collective stance must be linked to guaranteeing the democratic expression of the people and defending the independence, unity and territorial integrity of the country.
i need advice. i would like to begin by thanking you for the compliments on the dutch presidency and - more importantly - expressing my appreciation for the great commitment of the european union to its important neighbour, ukraine, which is evident in all the speeches here. i am very pleased that this is also reflected in the fact that your parliament is sending a delegation to ukraine this evening. i think commissioner ferrero-waldner and others have very well indicated what the european union's important role has been in many respects in the developments in ukraine. in view of the more critical questions and comments that have been raised, it may be worth pointing out that europe was already present in ukraine before the first round, and had already given signals and warnings, for example in relation to access to the media during the preparations for the elections. as you know - and i say this because there may have been some ambiguity - we have taken all the steps, made all the statements and developed all the activities after the first round. i agree with some members of your parliament - as mr schulz said first, and later mrs staniszewska - that this is also a moment to be proud of what the european union is doing, to be proud of the way we are trying to make the democratic model accepted outside europe. it is true - and mr saryusz-wolski, mr schulz, mr geremek, mr kaminski and many others have already said this - that there is a great deal of agreement in your parliament on what the position is and should be, and there is also a great deal of agreement with the commission and the council. understandably, the historical significance of what is happening here has also been noted. references have been made to poland in 1980 and by the commissioner to 1989 in many other former eastern european countries. i have rarely heard the council, the commission and parliament speak with one voice like this, because we do not accept the results announced by the central electoral commission. we want a new second round of elections. mr saryusz-wolski, mr brok and others have been very clear on this. there is absolute agreement on that. we all want free, fair and transparent elections and a peaceful solution that also guarantees the territorial integrity of ukraine. as regards the timing of the new second round of elections, which has been mentioned and is also reflected in the resolution, further consultation between the two parties is necessary. on the one hand, it takes some time to get a view of the right conditions, for example in connection with arrangements to allow sufficient observers to go there. on the other hand, i also understand very well the concern for delay or delaying tactics. we must not accept that, because everyone, and above all the people of ukraine, have the right to have a new president elected as soon as possible. understandably, comments were also made on the size of the observer mission. i would like to add, following a number of comments from you, that i too hope that the commission will take initiatives so that we will be there with a large delegation from the european union. in cooperation with the osce and the council of europe, of course, to ensure that the elections are truly free, transparent and fair. of course, russia has been mentioned by some of you as another important partner in these developments, and in that connection it is good to inform you that we as the presidency will of course continue very close contacts with russia and that prime minister balkenende, as president of the european council, also called mr putin again today and that both of them have constructively concluded that there is only one way forward, and that is a peaceful solution within the legal framework through dialogue. of course, i say to mr wiersma and others, there are many improvements to be made before the next elections. i would like to emphasize one of them, already in the first phase of the second round of elections there, namely, access to the media for all parties, as we also indicated before the first round. this should mean that there will be more expressions in the media that make it clear: the future is bright, the future is orange. and orange is not the colour of the dutch presidency, because as you know, the netherlands has orange as its national colour. nor as a colour for a particular candidate, as some of you have pointed out, but, as mr geremek and others have said, as a colour which symbolizes solidarity with all ukrainians who want free and fair elections.
the commission. i wished at my hearing that europe would speak with one voice more and more. and i am very pleased that for the first time since i have had the opportunity to speak in this house, we are actually moving in that direction. the council, the commission and parliament are rarely in agreement. i hope we can achieve this more often. i hope that when we speak with one voice, it actually leads to positive action, as we just did here and as i don't have to repeat it now. i have listened carefully, ladies and gentlemen. they made some comments, some more critical ones. i would like to address some of them. first, many have said that the european commission or the european union were not present enough, for example, in the field of election observation. well, here's what i'd like to say to you. i myself was chairman of the osce in 2000, we have a large organisation in europe that is very involved in election observation. we also have the odihr, a very important institution, and i think that the osce, the odihr and the european union should work in complementary ways. but here the osce has taken a special interest in these elections. nevertheless, i welcome your appeal and have already done some research in advance. we will be very happy to participate, we will see how much we can do, and as i said, from my rapid reaction mechanism i have some things that i will address in a similar form as in georgia here. there's a whole series of things that we've been doing for the last two years. these include projects to support training, for example, of local election observers, projects to provide voter information, to train members of local election commissions, to train journalists, to provide electoral coverage, or to support the reform of electoral and media legislation. i am not saying that we have been inactive, but i think that the various institutions in which we all work should complement each other. secondly, it has been said time and again that europe has not gone far enough and that we too bear some responsibility for the situation in ukraine today. i really must reject that. i myself, in my former capacity as austrian foreign minister, have sought very close contacts with ukraine and i can tell you that the european union's partnership and cooperation agreement, which was negotiated mainly by the commission, has unfortunately been little implemented. i have tried to do this again and again and i have said that you have to do something yourself. i believe that now is the time to put this neighbourhood policy at the centre of my policy, and i intend to do so. of course, this will depend on how ukraine itself reacts now and how we deal with the action plans in the near future. i intend to put them on the table when we can really get to work on them quickly. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. let us all be inspired to join in this common spirit. (applause from the centre)
the eu's policy is a crude, unacceptable, provocative intervention inside ukraine. the critical situation in which the people find themselves is the result of capitalist restoration and the ensuing interventions and competitions of the imperialist powers. the policy pursued by the "elect" of the new imperialist class that has ruled the country in recent years. the eu's open intervention in the presence of solana, the governments of poland and latvia, which undermines any notion of national independence, is related to the eu's attempt to secure a favourable field for control of the region in the ensuing conflict with the us and russia. it is a gross hypocrisy for the eu to stand by no candidate when it has become a yushchenko campaign centre. the statements made by the us government about the ukrainian regime just a year ago, when it praised it for its positive stance in the war against iraq, are also a challenge. the eu, the us and russia are interested in safeguarding their interests in ukraine, exploiting the discontent of its people with the policy being pursued, which both power-seekers agree on. the interests of the ukrainian people, who alone are competent to solve their problems, lie in the overthrow of the present policy, its exponents and foreign interventions.
mr president, speaking of the union's financing for the period 2007 to 2013, i have two personal concerns: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the amount of funding, it is clear that the needs due to the enlargement of the european union are increasing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european investment bank is a very good one. i am afraid that in some cases the opposite is true. but in any case, mr president, enlargement should not work to the detriment of the present cohesion countries and should not work to the detriment of the european union's cohesion policies. in this context, i welcome the european parliament's position that adequate union funding is needed for the future, although i do have a personal reservation when we start talking about the specific figures. the second concern is the timing. mr nicolai conveyed to us the council's constant position that the aim is to finish by june. i hope that's true. but as you know, and as some colleagues have already mentioned, there are rumours to the contrary. i do not think that is good for the union budget as a whole, but especially for multiannual programmes such as those of the structural funds. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states and the regions, and has also taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the regions is not used for the purposes of the present programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but even if they do, they will be extremely negative for the functioning of the structural funds and the cohesion policies from 2007 onwards. i would therefore like to see a clear position from the council on the timetable and on the alternatives which, in my view, cannot be envisaged for the structural funds.
the debate on the budgetary perspective is of strategic importance for the future of europe. it is about the european union's ability to respond to the needs of its peoples and the challenges of the 21st century. the proposals put forward by the previous european commission are, in our view, a good and balanced basis for discussion. the budgetary and restrictive approach taken by some governments and the reinstatement of the 1% as a dogmatic target at this stage of the negotiations are unacceptable. we are really concerned about the council's apparent inability to respond effectively to the need to ensure the growth and redistributive nature of the community budget, and this, unfortunately, we have seen again in the 2005 budgetary procedure. it is a question of credibility when we call on the peoples of europe to ratify the european constitution, when we talk about speeding up the lisbon strategy and we are not prepared to make the corresponding commitments on the budgetary means of implementing these objectives. this is a mockery of the citizens of the european union. the community budget, which covered the european union of 15 member states, cannot effectively cover the union of 25 member states today and 27 tomorrow. as the european parliament we want to have an agreement on the financial perspective in time, by 2005, to guarantee the necessary and adequate financing of the european union's policies. we will work towards this, mr president, and we call on the council to live up to its responsibilities. we are also convinced that the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of employment, and that the european union must be able to take action in the field of employment, and that the european union must be able to take action in the field of employment.
the european parliament, mr president, at the beginning of a difficult and tough negotiation, must send three clear messages: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, to call for a multiannual budgetary framework which would allow for the early planning of policies and programmes and, of course, to reject scenarios for four or five years. thirdly, and finally, the european parliament should make it clear that it is not prepared to agree to any such agreement without guarantees that the policies which ensure economic and social cohesion in the enlarged europe of the twenty-five will be financed. we need more ambitious, not more miserable, plans for the common europe of the future we are building. the prodi package is just a good starting point and we must all agree that more europe with less money is not possible.
mr president, i think we might have to look at the problem in a different way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission's proposals should therefore be seen in their dynamic aspect. i would like to make this perfectly clear, mr president, by giving an example: research and technology. according to the commission, the cost of this sector for europe will reach eur 23 billion by 2013. what does this mean for the global environment? right now, in america, we have 2.7 percent. but, mr president, entrepreneurship has been strengthened so much because there is an interconnection - what we call 'linkages' - between business, government and the wider economic community in the region. the 2.7% has a higher multiplier than our 2% which is currently in europe, and which, of course, we will bring to 3%. but 3% is, for example, japan, which is in recession today precisely because it does not have these links, and it has not been helped by research and technology to get out of it. so it is research and technology, this important part, that is a necessary condition for development, but not sufficient. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
on behalf of the team. the way in which sport is developing in the european union, mr president, commissioner, is liable to weaken its educational and social character. the social function of sport, which is in the general interest, has been undermined for some years by the emergence of new phenomena which have called into question the application of ethics - fair play - the overall action and development of the sporting ideal. violence in stadiums, after a period of peace, has been revived in the last two years with new trials for the most popular and most popular sport, football. the bullying now translates into racism that we see in the stadiums where black players play, or in the teams where athletes from other races play. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the child, and to the protection of the rights of the child, and to the protection of the rights of the child. the spread of doping and the financial exploitation associated with television rights and marketing have turned sport, and football in particular, into a field of competition and conflicting interests. the contracts of footballers in the post-bosman era have taken on a value of enormous proportions. the liberalization of the market, which at first seemed to favour the associations, proved to be an unpleasant surprise as time went on, as the so-called 'national product' was damaged. in many european countries, particularly in the last five years, another phenomenon has been observed, which has led many well-known and historic associations to bankruptcy but not to expenditure: ambitious plans, fruitless hopes, unpaid coaches and players, debts that reach fifa and uefa. the european union of 25 now faces a different prospect and the entry of 10 new member states creates the need for conditional harmonisation on the free movement of footballers for the transitional period. uefa is exploring new ways of rescuing and producing new talent. the european union must therefore work with the relevant ministries of the 25 member states to complete the national project.
on behalf of the team. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the european union is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. football is not a simple game that lasts 90 minutes, nor is it a purely business activity. it is, in many cases, the image of the effort of an entire local community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's sporting and cultural heritage is protected, and that the european union's sporting heritage is protected. the free movement of workers also applies to footballers who, as working citizens of the european union, have and should have this right. however, the commission could adopt measures aimed at strengthening the links between football players and football associations and the local community, as has been said before. the proposal for a minimum number of players, for example, who must come from the area of their team, is important. on the other hand, the concentration of high-value players in economically viable teams weakens the link between these teams and their home societies and has a negative impact on the potential development of the talent of the athletes in the region. the image presented today by many large, mainly european teams, which in the major football competitions appear with only one or two players - or even none at all as we heard a moment ago for belgium - coming from their country, should be a cause for concern. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation, the creation of a european sports federation. the social and educational nature of sport has been stressed many times and as such it must be promoted.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the situation in colombia.
mr president, we express our solidarity with the colombian people and with all those who are fighting against the barbaric uribe regime, which has the economic, political and military support of the united states of america, and which is using the army and paramilitary organizations to murder trade unionists and to sow violence and terror among the colombian people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. against this regime are struggling political parties, trade unions, workers' organizations, peasants, intellectual women, youth, church, as well as guerrilla movements. the conflict in colombia is political, economic and social, and those who make the case for terrorism and all the rest want to cover up the political problem and give an alibi to this barbaric regime. the peace process in colombia must be a political solution which can only be achieved through negotiations which require: the first is to create a security environment so that all sides can sit down at the negotiating table. secondly, the farc-ep should be removed from the list of terrorist organizations. the regime itself recognizes that it is a political-military organization. thirdly, a first step could be the application of international humanitarian law through the exchange of prisoners and prisoners held by the regime. this position is accepted by all but the government. fourthly, no prisoner shall be extradited to the united states of america. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. sixth, to stop aiding and abetting paramilitary organizations. seventh, to stop all interference in the internal affairs of colombia by the united states of america. the 'colombia' project, which has been renamed the 'andean regional initiative' and which is preparing a more general intervention in colombia, should be terminated. these positions are accepted by all except the barbaric uribe government and the united states of america.
i would like to thank the speakers and the commissioner for their participation in this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
in writing. lock them all up. we are all potential threats to the establishment and potential terrorists. the council's agreement, which is the subject of this debate, is essentially this. the planned mandatory collection, storage and transmission of biometric data (digital photograph, fingerprint and "optional" use of the iris) is an important step in the establishment of central databases of identification of persons, with uncontrolled access, which will serve as a basis for the persecution and repression of the popular movement. the way in which these measures are being promoted, in violation of the supposed consultative power of the european parliament, demonstrates the eu's haste to align itself with the us internal security doctrine and the theory of zero tolerance. the decision by the european councils to introduce two mandatory biometric data and one optional data, while the european parliament was still debating a proposal for one mandatory and one optional, shows the eu's respect for the so-called rule of law, which it now wants to export to ukraine. these measures, together with the reactionary package of the hague programme, are accelerating the implementation of a worldwide network of envelopes and terrorization of those who resist the terrorism of european and global monopoly capital. but they will prove unable to stop the workers' struggles, and the attempts at intimidation will backfire on their instigators.
in writing. the hypocritical grandiloquence about 'legitimacy', 'compromise' and 'democratic procedures' that has been brazenly spoken in the european parliament by meps, the commission and the council does not conceal the open and developed interference in the internal affairs of ukraine and the destruction of any notion of national independence. after the pre-election orgy of externally dictated advertising and mass marketing, we now move to the phase of the raw intervention of the eu, the us and russia in order to serve the ambitions of their imperialist powers in the great chessboard of geopolitical rearrangements and to ensure control of the caspian, the caucasus, the black sea. the crisis is not about solving the problems of the ukrainian people and satisfying their demand for a socially oriented state and a just society. none of the would-be pretenders to power wants to give him that, since both have been collaborators with the ukrainian oligarchy and protagonists of the anti-people and anti-working class policy pursued in recent years. the interests of the ruling classes of the eu, the us have been pitted against those of the new russian ruling class and they are confronted with such violence that it may lead the country and the region to unpredictable developments. the ukrainian people must confront this unfavourable prospect and not allow themselves to be trapped between scylla and charybdis.
in writing. the problem of the future financing of the community cannot be confined to an interinstitutional problem of relations between the european parliament and the council, even though this too is indicative of the attitude of the plutocracy by sidelining any representative bodies. the key issue is the political orientation of the use of eu resources, whether it serves the interests of the popular strata or not. it is now proven that community resources and funds lead to a redistribution of wealth, snatched from the workers and given to the big capital, from the poor and the less developed regions to the plutocracy and the more developed regions of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the eu's budgets reflect the eu's economic policy, its imperialist character and its reactionary, anti-people orientations. the pile of money they were selling turns out to be ashes instead of gold for the workers and manna for the capital. the present conflict expresses the internal contradictions of capital and not the interests of the workers, who are demanding the satisfaction of their contemporary needs and are fighting to change political orientations in favour of the majority of the people. "
in writing. by the time today's debate on aids is over, thousands of people will have died and many of them might have lived if the big pharmaceutical companies had not blocked the process of producing and importing anti-hiv drugs in order to keep their monopoly and their profits from being broken. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the development of the european union's external policies. the evidence is staggering: in africa, only one in a hundred africans can afford medical treatment. in zambia, one in three pregnant women contract aids. 8,200 people die every day. this is capitalism, savage, barbaric. it kills not just with guns but by denying basic human rights like access to medical care and treatment. rights that remain only on paper, while in practice health and medicine have become commodities for multinationals to profit from. this is the policy promoted by the eu and the governments of the member states which defend the interests of the monopolies. the kke meps are fighting for an exclusively public free healthcare system and a state-owned pharmaceutical industry. only then will health become a real right for all people .
mr president, a few days ago, the president of our party, pasok, mr george papandreou, met in istanbul with patriarch bartholomew and had the opportunity to reaffirm our support for the ecumenical character of the orthodox patriarchate, the great spiritual and cultural work it is doing and the patriarch's international initiatives for dialogue between religions and cultures, as well as for the protection of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as everyone knows, the ecumenical patriarchate has for many centuries played an important role in the cultural and spiritual life of the orthodox peoples. it is the orthodox pole of christianity in the world. for these reasons, mr president, i had to propose to you, with the particular political and institutional weight you have, to take the initiative towards all the political groups to adopt a joint declaration which would, on the one hand, confirm the ecumenical character of the patriarchate of constantinople and the need for the immediate reopening of the theological school of halki, and, on the other hand, point out that turkey's national security is not endangered by the defence and promotion of the work of the patriarchate.
mr president, my political group, in its large majority, supports the opening of accession negotiations with turkey in principle. but we believe that the eurlings report needs changes that reinforce our demand for the turkish leadership to comply in practice with european standards: changes that counter the unacceptable pressure of the united states leadership on the dutch presidency for turkey's accession to the european union "a la carte", that is, almost unconditionally. the long, difficult and uncertain journey of turkey towards membership requires changes in practice and not just on paper. i call on the european commission to draw up immediately a road map with a concrete and verifiable timetable for the implementation of the copenhagen political criteria, with particular emphasis on the recognition of cyprus by turkey and the withdrawal of the turkish occupation forces from the northern part of the island, visible progress in solving the problems of the kurdish people and the safeguarding of human rights and the drafting of a new constitution. in my home country of greece, we aspire to make this difficult european journey - which will begin in a few days for turkey - a better democratic and peace-loving neighbour, a demand that also mobilizes civil society in our neighbouring country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the spirit of adenauer, de gaulle, spaak were in this chamber, they would shudder at the very idea of what we are discussing here. not that we decide to bring turkey into europe. it is true that if the american did not want turkey to join europe today, it would not be a matter for discussion. the question is therefore institutional: are we an autonomous political entity or are we ploughing in the american vehicle ? which one is turkey? since when is turkey europe? ask your child at home. ask your child, who knows geography, if it is europe or asia. ask the priest who married you if turkey is europe. and now to the eurlings report: the original differs from what we're discussing today as much as the bible differs from the koran. and since we're talking about the bible, i refer you to the pan-semination - many centuries ago - of the tower of babel. it's been dissolved! if you want to break up europe, put 80 million turks with different cultures and different religions into europe. when de gaulle and other europeans were building europe, he said: "europe is defined by borders, by the christian religion and by greco-roman culture". now let's get the turks into europe. that would be a crime against europe. do not commit it!
mr president, the communist party of greece is opposed to the european union and its enlargement and, in this sense, we do not agree with the accession of turkey, not for nationalist, chauvinist or cultural reasons, but for the same political reasons that we are opposed to the accession of greece and its remaining in the european union. we are also concerned about the fact that the european union is not yet able to take action on the basis of the maastricht treaty. the council's texts so far, including the report, have either concealed or covered up the turkish invasion of cyprus and the occupation of part of it as an independent un member state and now as a member of the european union. the turkish government also defiantly refuses to recognise the republic of cyprus and to withdraw recognition of the pseudo-state. we ask you: if this were the case in france, britain, italy or germany, would you enter into negotiations with such a state? i wonder where the equivalence is between the countries of the european union. secondly, the turkish governments have raised new issues of border disputes with greece which have been clearly resolved by international treaties and the only existing problem to be resolved is the demarcation of the shelf in the aegean. the european union legitimized these demands during the discussions, with the helsinki decision. turkey's aggression in the aegean is being eroded daily by dozens of airspace violations. thirdly, the report refers to significant progress in democratization and mr eurlings was surprised to go to turkey and now he does not listen to us. did mr. eurlings go to any other country than turkey? there are limited and not substantial changes ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, in december 1999 the helsinki european council sent a clear message to turkey by deciding on a real and not a virtual candidacy and by setting out a clear framework of conditions, conditions and criteria which turkey had to implement. this consensus eu policy has made a decisive contribution to major reforms in turkey over the past five years. it would be wrong to belittle the progress he has made, just as it would be wrong to create an idyllic image. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner and that the member states are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the risks are not exceeded. but, as in 1999, so now, the resolution that the european parliament is called upon to adopt and the decision that the european council will take must also contain a clear message: the message of the opening of accession negotiations in accordance with the decisions of the european council in the course of 2005 with the ultimate objective of eu accession if turkey successfully concludes the negotiations. this message, however, should not be considered a blank check. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the principles of the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in this context, turkey's commitment to respect the rights of minorities, the rights of the greek minority in istanbul, imbros and tenedos, to respect the ecumenical character of the patriarchate, to proceed immediately with the reopening of the theological school of chalki, to respect international law and to contribute to the resolution of operational problems on the basis of a specific timetable by referral to the international court of justice in the hague, and finally to proceed with the international recognition of the republic of cyprus and the gradual withdrawal of the occupying army, is of crucial importance. in particular, on the issue of diplomatic recognition of cyprus, i would like to hear the views of the dutch presidency and mr nicolai on the position of the dutch presidency vis-à-vis the european council. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights, and that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. turkey must overcome its fears and come to terms with its past, even with its negative aspects, which it must courageously acknowledge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to say that the commission is very pleased with the report and the work carried out by the committee on budgets.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr camiel eurlings, on his excellent work and on the spirit of cooperation he has shown throughout the procedure. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. - paragraph 37, which establishes the framework for the defence and respect of the rights of minorities, among which the greeks of istanbul, imbros and tenedos naturally occupy a prominent place; - paragraph 38, which sets out the conditions and in particular what turkey must do in relation to cyprus, in particular the recognition of the republic of cyprus and the withdrawal of turkish troops from the northern part of cyprus; - paragraph 40, which presents a multi-dimensional methodological approach to dealing with any outstanding differences with neighbouring countries and, of course, which refers to the obligation to refrain from threats and provocations. this paragraph also covers greek-turkish relations. finally, mr president, i suggest that the house vote on the eurlings report.
mr president, mr eurlings has received many compliments this evening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i think that this report should be supported. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. the european citizens demand that turkey respect international law and conform to the constitutional, economic, political and cultural acquis of europe. i would like to mention the need for turkey to fully respect the human rights of minorities and religious groups and to fully implement the copenhagen criteria. i also fail to see the paradox of turkey's attitude, which is to ask for the vote of a member state which it does not recognise. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission's programme statements, mr president, may not have been made into specimens, but they were given. the faster implementation of the lisbon strategy with increased working hours and hours, reduction of wages, pensions, unemployment benefits, specialisation of part-time and temporary work, abolition of collective agreements, privatisation in the health, education and welfare sectors will bring more profitability for capital and more poverty and unemployment for workers. the so-called 'euro-constitution' and the hague programme will lead to the further militarization of europe by the development of armaments programmes, the destruction of individual and collective rights and freedoms of peoples under the pretext of terrorism. it is a policy of new privileges and power for the european monopolies. the financing of the occupying government and cooperation with the occupiers of iraq will be at the expense of peace and the iraqi people who are resisting, while the wto negotiations guarantee new armies of unemployed and disenfranchised small and mediumsized farmers. the peoples of europe must be concerned and at the same time develop their struggle. they can project obstacles with their struggles. we, the members of the european parliament from the communist party of greece, will fight with them to put a stop to the new anti-people rhetoric that is being prepared.
the commission's programme for the next five years must have as its main objective sustainable growth, full employment and economic and social cohesion. european citizens expect specific policies that create jobs and improve their living standards in practice. it is a matter of credibility for europe to secure the necessary and adequate funding for the implementation of these policies. the commission's position on the budgetary perspective must be firm on the basis of the prodi proposals and we expect your commitment to this. the policy for the competitiveness of the european economy is based on the simultaneous strengthening of cohesion, solidarity and social europe. priority must also be given to education, training, innovation, research and technology, but great importance must also be given to upgrading services and infrastructure in europe's regions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
mr president, as a member of the committee on international trade i would like to concentrate my speech on strengthening the role of the european union in a more transparent, more democratically legitimised and efficient world trade system. a system that is at a critical stage of its evolution. there is increasing interdependence in international trade and integration of markets. the number of countries participating in the multilateral cooperation system is also increasing. these two reasons are pressing for an adjustment of the rules and disciplines of the wto, for further opening up of the markets for goods and services, for a greater link between international trade and development. this trend is clearly reflected in the doha mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union, the most important actor in the international economy and trade diplomacy, is called upon to play an even more active - i would say leading - role in strengthening and continuing to adapt the wto system. in order for the new globalised environment to optimise the allocation of resources, stability, predictability and solidarity will need to be reinforced by new strong institutions and management mechanisms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my proposal concerns the areas of economic and political cooperation of financial markets and international development cooperation on the basis of a model of a new international social and ecological market economy. the modern world needs a new coherent world economic order, a new system of mutually supportive thematic and functional arrangements. i believe that this is the direction in which europe must move and in which the commission - i am addressing myself to you, mr president of the commission - is called upon to develop creative initiatives and actions.
in writing. we consider it appropriate in principle to equalise the participation rate in rural development support programmes of the areas which joined the eu on 1.5.2004 with that of the existing regions. it is surprising, however, that this equalisation will be achieved without any financial cost to the community budget, since the participation of the 10 new countries in the programmes will increase from 80% to 85%, and that this equalisation only concerns the objective 1 regions, while remaining unclear for the other regions. the above-mentioned deliberate 'vagueness' lies in the fact that behind the false formulations of 'support for agriculture' there is an attempt, through these programmes, to bring community agriculture into structural conformity with the requirements of the cap, the wto, multinational and monopoly capital, to redistribute resources between the first and second pillars in order to conceal and mitigate the consequences and to prevent social explosions, since the 'diversification of economic activities in the countryside' sought in practice means a drastic reduction in the decline of agricultural activity and the search for 'resting places' for the young and old farmers who have been uprooted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rural development programmes are implemented in a way that is compatible with the common agricultural policy.
in writing. the 'europass' is another lever to replace systematic and integrated training, from fragmented skills and learning by deadlines, adapted to current market needs, with the aim of exploiting workers, in full accordance with the lisbon strategy. it gives employers exclusive responsibility for assessing educational and vocational qualifications in order to select the most suitable worker for their company's needs, removing this role from the education system. the 'euro-passport' is open to renewals and additions of more and new requirements by employers, and it tends to become a tool for the personnel's dossier, with descriptions not just of their skills and knowledge, but also of their attitude, beliefs, behaviour. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the policy of lifelong training and of rotating individual courses hinders rather than facilitates mobility, and signifies the total availability of man to the changing needs of work. we call for the abolition of europass and the introduction of: 1) a uniform, public, free education system to create a comprehensive educational background, substantial vocational training leading to full professional competence, 2) high living standards and equality in terms of work, education and living conditions for migrant workers.
the commission. the recent contamination incident has shown that the european community already has the necessary comprehensive legislation to deal appropriately with similar situations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. monitoring programmes for dioxins and pcbs in food and feed are in place throughout the european union. these programmes enabled the dutch authorities to identify the contamination and to take appropriate measures to eliminate the source. monitoring and tracing systems are in place to identify potentially infected holdings and livestock units. in order to prevent the introduction of potentially contaminated food and feed into the food chain, the necessary restrictive measures have been taken for those establishments. the early warning system for food and feed has been particularly effective in exchanging information between competent authorities. the introduction of dioxin ceilings by the european union played a major role in the management of this contamination episode. it is indeed a legal tool for decision-making that safeguards the protection of public health. however, it must be admitted that it is not possible to completely rule out the possibility of contamination of the food chain. the danger will always remain and that is why we have taken the necessary measures to identify and deal with such risks. but it is of the utmost importance for the protection of public health that infections are detected at an early stage through surveillance and that we have rules in place to prevent and deter further contamination of the food chain. existing community legislation already provides for such provisions. nevertheless, the contamination incident of today has demonstrated the need to assess the safety not only of the ingredients of food and feed but also of the products directly or indirectly used in the manufacture of food and feed. food law states that food and feed businesses are responsible for product safety. the commission will continue to stress this obligation to undertakings and to monitor the checks carried out under the responsibility of the competent national services to ensure compliance with the provisions in force. finally, as regards landfills, community legislation has been adopted to ensure that landfills are designed and operated in such a way as not to endanger human health or the environment.
madam president, commissioner, the necessary tools for risk management and public health are, on the one hand, the establishment of maximum levels of dioxins in feed materials, feed and food at a strict but feasible level which will become stricter over time and, on the other hand, the search for accountability at all stages of the food chain where dioxins are detected. but the weak link in the chain for the success of this effort is control mechanisms, especially in the feed sector where the link to public health is not directly felt by the citizen and awareness at the production level is lower than in food. this is also shown by the fact that the last major nutritional problems were caused by dioxins in animal feed. what action do you intend to take to strengthen and reinforce the existing model of feed control mechanisms so that controls at both european and member state level are more effective?
commission madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades humanitarian aid actors have worked in conditions of insecurity and unpredictability. the risks involved in providing aid in unstable situations have - and i think this has not escaped anyone's notice - increased considerably. i take as an example iraq, côte d'ivoire and darfur in particular. humanitarian personnel have themselves been the target of attacks by armed forces and militias all too often. given the difficult conditions in which the commission works through echo, the humanitarian aid office and its partners, the delivery of aid and material assistance to the suffering people is becoming increasingly difficult. furthermore, it should be noted that the increased involvement of non-humanitarian actors in the strict sense, such as the military, in humanitarian activities has sometimes led to confusion of roles, with the resulting risks to the safety of humanitarian personnel. in order to preserve the existence of a humanitarian space and, consequently, to guarantee the delivery of aid and material to the victims, the commission's decisions are inspired by humanitarian values and principles, as well as by the desire to provide quality assistance through its partnership with humanitarian organisations. therefore, in accordance with the council regulations on humanitarian aid, the commission's decisions are dictated solely by humanitarian needs and basic humanitarian principles, namely neutrality, impartiality and independence. respect for these principles should contribute to the protection of humanitarian personnel and access to victims in the event of conflict. in order to maintain the distinction between the role of military personnel and that of humanitarian personnel, the commission supports the fundamental position of civilian organisations in the implementation of humanitarian action in situations where military capability and resources are used. to do so, it maintains that such recourse must be in line with the guidelines for the use of military and civil protection resources in complex emergency humanitarian aid operations conducted by the united nations. echo is not an operational organisation. its mission is to finance the coordinated delivery of humanitarian aid through partner organisations. these include international ngos, other international organisations and the united nations. the quality and effectiveness of echo's assistance depend largely on the professional skills of its partners. all the organisations that sign the partnership agreement under which they work with echo are therefore committed to upholding the fundamental humanitarian values and principles i have just mentioned. the basic objective of humanitarian aid is not to prevent or resolve conflicts but to alleviate the human suffering caused by them. in consultation with other donors and partners, echo is actively seeking ways to address the growing problems of access to victims and the safety of humanitarian personnel, with the aim of improving the situation in this regard. it is important to raise awareness among governments, armed forces and non-state actors of their obligations under international humanitarian law. this right requires parties to a conflict to facilitate the passage of aid convoys and the provision of neutral assistance to civilians affected by a conflict. so, as a living example of this principle, when i went to sudan, to darfur to be more precise, i reminded the government authorities and the rebels that it was absolutely essential to allow free access for international humanitarian organizations to the victims and the people who needed help. this is a fundamental principle and i am giving this example to emphasize the importance of political dialogue between the commission and the authorities of these countries.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner louis michel very much because he has been very detailed on this very important subject, especially when, very recently in the ivory coast, you know that there are forces belonging to a country of the european union. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask you whether you have considered suspending humanitarian aid when it is not clear whether it will be used by those in need and when there is a risk that it will end up in the hands of the insurgents. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos.
mr president, i would like to make three comments on the subject under discussion: first of all, i was pleased to see that almost all the speakers felt that the budget of the european union should meet the ambitions set at times by both the commission and parliament, because, indeed, policy cannot be made without money. i am particularly disappointed that there is a debate on the size of the budget and that there are restrictive tendencies at a time when, even if the commission's proposal were accepted, it would mean that the european union as a whole is spending 2.5% of all public expenditure in europe each year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i would like to have a clarification from the commissioner as to what will happen with regard to the future of the structural funds if no decision is taken by the end of this year. because of the multiannual nature of the structural funds' policies, there is a problem with the possible creation of a legal vacuum, which will not allow the programmes to start from 1 january 2007. how could this be dealt with, commissioner? the third point i want to make is the cost of enlargement, since enlargement has a cost which we must pay because it is a major historical choice of the european union, but on the other hand, this cost must be shared fairly. i know that this is not a technical issue in the context of the subject we are discussing now, but it is a more general one and i would like to know from the commissioner whether the commission has studies showing how the costs of enlargement are ultimately allocated. i am referring to the question of own resources, commissioner, but i think these issues are directly linked.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, first of all i would like to congratulate the dutch presidency on its work. i have the final draft of the conclusions here, and i have to say you did a very good job. as regards enlargement, i would first of all like to emphasize positively the paragraphs in the conclusions concerning the forthcoming accession of romania and bulgaria, stressing that the accession of these two countries creates a new geopolitical reality and therefore i consider it very important - as you mention in the conclusions - that the relevant agreements and treaties be signed very early in 2005. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i, mr president-in-office of the council, will insist that paragraph 20 of the draft conclusions before me be retained because it deals with the question of the peaceful settlement of disputes with neighbouring states and i would ask you to consider very seriously the inclusion of a paragraph concerning cyprus, namely the withdrawal of turkish troops and, of course, the recognition of the republic of cyprus. i would like to say a few words about what you have said about the budgetary perspective. it is very important to resolve the question of the budgetary perspective because, as you say, the budgetary perspective and its handling is a tool provided to the enlarged union to meet future challenges and i am glad that you also speak of the need for budgetary discipline. in conclusion, mr president, i think that a great deal has been said about terrorism, but i would like to draw the attention of the presidency to the fact that the question of terrorism does not end with a few paragraphs. it is a complex issue, it is a very serious issue, it will continue, and each time we will have new challenges, and therefore the council, the european parliament and the european commission must work closely together to deal with this phenomenon.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i feel that we are all living through historic days - citizens and politicians - because the decision which the european council is expected to take on turkey's accession negotiations will be a milestone for turkey itself, the european union and our wider region. no other candidate has been so widely discussed. there have been no such differences between member states, between political parties, no such open pressure from the united states, no such concerns and fears, no such serious and varied questions at every table. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the arguments for and against turkey's membership have been voiced in the past few days. there's one thing we have in common: we call on the european council to defend the dignity of the european union. the european union must not only respect turkey but also the values which unite the peoples of europe. no political realism can be used as an alibi to set aside our values or to accommodate them to turkish demands, whether this is in the spirit and letter of the copenhagen criteria or in the recognition of all 25 members of the european union - and you understand that i mean the recognition of the republic of cyprus. this, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a moral choice but also the best basis for a sustainable policy which will ensure our cohesion, inspire the union's respect and confidence in its citizens and, in any case, citizens expect a clear justification for the european council's decisions and a public dialogue, which has unfortunately not yet taken place, on the future of euro-turkish relations, with substance and depth. the other point i would like to make is that the council must finally set out a long-term plan for our external relations, with determination, coherence, well-coordinated objectives and reliable financing. in particular, i would like to mention our relations with the balkan and mediterranean partner countries, which are our vital area. in this context, we must also consider the role we must play in resolving the crisis in the middle east, at last in this new period which is now beginning for the region and which seems to be changing the game and to offer room for intervention and change.
i need advice. i am grateful to the president for the comments made by many, which i take note of in preparation for the forthcoming european council on thursday and friday. let me begin with the fundamental debate which some members of this house have been discussing, namely the debate on what the european union is, what europe is. i very much agree with a number of members - mr watson was the first and most explicit in that - that the european union is not a religious community. i also agree with mr cohn-bendit that europe is not a cultural community either. europe, the european union, is, as mr schulz and others have said, a community of values. european integration is not a religious project, but a political one. in this connection, it was a nice remark from mrs uca who, looking at turkey, said that this conclusion can also be a bridge to islam and that we can thus indeed show that europe is a political and not a religious project. conversely, turkey can show that a country which is predominantly islamic can also be a democratic and functioning state governed by the rule of law. some spoke explicitly and appreciatively about the series of conferences on what europe is and what are the values we share. mr maaten and mr lehne have already discussed this. one of the important lessons we can draw from the debate on european values and european identity is that we must be careful to focus on european identity. we all know, after the last century, the negative consequences of a top-down identity. we also recognize that many of the values we share are universal values and we want them to be so. nevertheless, there are european features in the way we deal with these values, in the way we can invoke them and in the way we organise them. there are, however, specific european accents in these values. for example, to mention a very important one, tolerance. that brings me to the enlargement debate which many have spoken about, starting with the debate on turkey. we had that debate yesterday and concluded that we must not only show the concerns but also the great benefits of turkey's eventual accession in the long term. one of the advantages has been mentioned by mr schulz and that is safety. mr watson noted that turkey met the criteria sufficiently and that, in line with the commission's conclusion, this was also the position of the presidency after the entry into force of the six laws. mr eurlings and others have again stressed the importance of continuing to exert pressure on turkey in order to achieve the necessary developments in that country. the european union has a duty to protect the rights of the peoples of the world. the presidency has therefore chosen to present a new framework for the forthcoming accession negotiations on the basis of the commission's proposals. that framework allows for more pressure and provides more guarantees for a smooth running of the process. it is precisely on the sensitive political criteria that the so-called 'emergency' option, the suspension option, offers guarantees. for understandable reasons, the cyprus question has been raised again by a number of members of this parliament. mr barroso mentioned it in his opening remarks, as did mr adamou and mr dimitrakopoulos. i would like to reiterate once again the commitment of the dutch presidency to this point in the preparations for the council meeting at the end of this week. we do indeed want turkey to recognise the fact that cyprus is a member of the european union and one of the 25 countries. we want to achieve this by means of turkey's signing of the protocol to the association agreement. mr van den berg has explicitly asked whether the presidency can confirm that the commitment is that no final date for accession is mentioned. very specifically: that is indeed the commitment of the presidency. another question, focusing on the political criteria, was whether the presidency could confirm that turkey would not join if it was not ready. i would like to emphasize that. turkey will not intervene. finally, with regard to turkey, the important and sensitive point which will shortly be discussed again in parliament, namely the so-called open-ended nature of the negotiations with turkey. here again, the question from mr van den berg is explicit: what is the commitment of the presidency? let me make this clear once again: the presidency's commitment is that it is accession negotiations, and accession negotiations are about accession. that's point one. secondly, following the commission's comments, it is an open-ended process. there is no guarantee as to the outcome. the third element is that european solidarity must remain sufficiently guaranteed in all cases, but the commitment of the dutch presidency to the conclusions of thursday and friday is: we do not have a plan b. we shall speak of romania and bulgaria later. i shall confine myself to a few comments on the questions. mr watson and mr becsey, among others, have called for a separate approach for bulgaria on the one hand and romania on the other. in this connection it is worth pointing out that, as you know, the treaty does not provide for any distinction to be made, but that it does provide for a distinction to be made, if necessary, as regards the time of accession, since the possibility has been introduced and agreed to proceed, if there are reasons for it, to a maximum of a one-year delay for the country concerned. that is also the answer to the question put by mr eurlings, mrs oomen-ruijten and mr kirkhope, who are still very concerned about the situation in romania and stress the importance of maintaining maximum pressure on developments in romania. i agree with that and that is why we, as the presidency, have proposed that the council should also conclude that we want additional provisions on monitoring and concrete benchmarks for romania, coupled with the possibility of a sanction of, if necessary, a maximum of one year's delay. croatia has been mentioned by a number of members and is not on the agenda separately, so i think that despite the noise in the chamber i would do well to give you a careful answer to that. mr pinheiro and mr becsey have indicated that croatia has made great progress in its development towards europe and that it is a european country. i want to emphasize both. great progress has been made and the country is at the centre of europe. in addition, mr watson, mr van den berg and mr swoboda rightly pointed out that full cooperation with the icty is of the utmost importance. of course, it would be good, and i say this to mr swoboda and mr becsey, if we could take that positive step, also because of the role model that croatia could thus fulfil in the balkans. i agree with mr swoboda that we must try to make that decision positive. that is the commitment of the presidency and it means that we can indeed take a positive decision on the start of negotiations early next year. but explicitly linked to full cooperation with the icty. another important point that many of you have raised is the issue of combating terrorism. the great importance of this has also been underlined by mr barroso and mr pinheiro and others. in addition, mr watson, mrs malmström and mrs buitenweg have all stressed - and i think rightly - the importance of a balance between the fight against terrorism and fundamental rights. i agree with that and i think mr maaten was right to point out that we have shown in the hague programme that the council also wants to maintain that balance. mr eurlings asked specifically about the possibilities of banning organisations. he will also know that this is a responsibility, a competence, of the member states, but we do ensure that information is exchanged between member states on this point. the exchange of information is crucial in the fight against terrorism, as mr eurlings and others have mentioned. that is a key point of this presidency and is also on the agenda of the council for thursday and friday. we have made concrete progress in this half-year in facilitating the exchange of criminal records, in pooling intelligence and in the situation centres and the threat analyses that can be carried out there. as you know, we will ask the commission to come forward with a more detailed proposal for the exchange of information, as also provided for in the hague programme. as requested by some of the members, i would like to make it clear that the european council intends to take a decision in principle on the appointment of a european human rights ambassador on thursday and friday. the financial perspective has been discussed by many in this parliament. in his introductory remarks, mr barroso rightly spoke of the importance of added value in the context of the multiannual budget and budgetary discipline. he also expressed concern about the 1% approach and the importance of sufficient funds for europe's priorities. many after him have underlined that. it is therefore appropriate to state the council's position on this point. we support many of the priorities mentioned here, but it is still important that in any financial discussion we identify the posteriorities as well as the priorities and not just list the priorities. that is what we have done as the presidency in our so-called building blocks approach, in which we have tried to make an inventory and to sum up not only the priorities but also the backlogs. i can reassure some members who were worried about what is going to happen on thursday and friday. mrs grossetête feared that we would take a decision on 1%, which would not be understood by the citizens. the council has no position on the 1%, however, let that be very clear. the council has identified the positions of the member states, both the priorities and the backlogs, on the basis of the commission's proposals - which is and will remain the starting point, as the new parliament rightly insists - and we will decide on this. i would like to share mr watson's concern about financial accountability and his concern that the court of auditors has not given a discharge for the tenth time. we have taken steps during our presidency to improve this situation by means of single audits and we will be discussing this in more detail in the spring. i think we have reached an important moment in the foreign policy of the european union, and many people have mentioned it here. mr schulz was the first to speak very strongly about this, as was mrs napoletano. that was the ukraine. i think that we - the european parliament, the european commission and the council - have shown by our attitude that we are able to speak with one voice when it comes to foreign policy. i think that is a very important step in terms of the progress we have been able to make in the democratization process in ukraine. i also think it is a very important step towards speaking with one voice in foreign policy. this is a first step and we intend to take further steps on the basis of the new treaty. on the next point, i can be quite brief. that is the lisbon strategy, which a number of members, mr maaten, mr kirkhope and mr titley, have spoken about. you know that this subject is being discussed in the council in the spring and is not on the agenda for this council. but we are moving forward, and it is true that the implementation of the lisbon strategy is one of the key elements. it is also true, as mr maaten and mr kirkhope have said, that deregulation and reduction of administrative burdens are crucial to our competitiveness in the world. finally, the issue of citizen involvement and the importance of transparency and openness. what i would like to say to mrs buitenweg on the subject of publicity is that during our presidency we have made council meetings more public where possible. a unique meeting was also held in amsterdam with all the heads of european affairs. this entire meeting was held in public, as was an informal industrial meeting. i'd like to end with a hopeful message. mr maaten complimented the presidency for promoting citizen involvement through good communication. i am not sure if this is related to this, but we can see that the latest eurobarometer shows an increase in the positive involvement of citizens. the percentage of citizens who say that eu membership is a good thing has risen from 48% to 56%. it is not enough, but it is a good step forward, and i would like to conclude with this hopeful remark. thank you, mr president, for your attention. (applause from the left)
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. on behalf of president barrosos and the whole commission, i would like to thank you for this debate, which has given us many valuable and constructive suggestions and comments. the debate also reflected the ambitious and demanding agenda for the eu in the years ahead. i have only one thing to add to what president barroso and the council presidency have already said. it has to do with an element of the commission's proposal on turkey. in parallel with the negotiations which the commission intends to open with turkey, a cultural dialogue is also proposed. it will channel the anxieties and prejudices and real differences between the eu and turkey and ensure that we can overcome all this by initiating a dialogue also in civil society on both sides. i think that is very important in order to also clarify and get over some of the arguments that have been used here. they often have to do with a fear of what is seen as something unknown or frightening. remember, it's on both sides. i consider this an important instrument of dialogue. it is a decades-old story in the turkish question. it is also important to ask ourselves some basic questions in the face of this important decision. what is the most powerful force for secularization and the rule of law in turkey? what would be the risks and effects of signalling a change in the eu's policy direction in opening negotiations with turkey? i hope and am convinced that the debate which has taken place here today will provide a good basis for the discussions which will be held in the council and which will also be held in the commission in the future.
the debate is closed. we now move on to the vote.
in writing. the eu wants to remove by all means the victims of the policy of intervention it is pursuing with the usa in a number of countries. anti-refugee legislation, record-breaking inhumanity of asylum applications, medieval living conditions in the migration centres were not enough. now it is also being sought to keep outside the eu those seeking asylum, international protection. only those 'organized and organized' are admitted who are deemed necessary for the 'competitiveness' of the euromolecules. the proposed 'pan-european relocation scheme' is a front for public acceptance of the establishment of concentration camps for migrants outside the eu. protected entry procedures ultimately promote non-entry, since the asylum application will be completed in a country outside the eu. in the context of 'responsibility-sharing' between the eu and third countries, the burden of detaining migrants is shifted to them until the formal decision to deport them is reached. the text is full of appeals to human rights accompanied by proposals and policies which violate them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'extortionate' in the context of agreements with third countries. there is no word on addressing the causes of the refugee waves. the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in madrid, has called for a new european union to be established, and for the european union to be given the task of promoting the development of the european union. i 'm not .
in writing. the european parliament's recommendation has ignored the recent annual report of the echr, which is the catalyst for the so-called dutch experiment, and rejects the argument that cannabis is supposedly harmless. in the recommendation, in the name of a nonexistent realism, the nature of the problem is distorted from social to medical, leading to submission and defeat. the author attempts to back door the generalization of the dutch experiment by adopting the dangerous views of dividing drugs into soft and hard. it uses the word 'consumers' instead of 'victim-users' and proposes the establishment of official dosing sites. the result of this dangerous approach is that all the proposals that undermine the primary concern - prevention - focus on reducing the consequences of the damage (replacement programmes), and seek solutions in the mechanisms and instruments of the eu. the link between drug trafficking and the financing of so-called terrorism is an argument for imperialist propaganda and an alibi against the peoples. we have no tolerance for drug culture. the causes of addiction are not divided into "hard" and "soft". we need prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of drug users, and a movement that will fight to overturn the social causes, and the barbaric policy of capitalism that leads to drugs.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating you, colleagues of the european parliament, on the hijacking today in athens of a bus with innocent citizens on their way to their daily work. i would like to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i am sure that the commission will take the initiative in the future. as for our subject now, bulgaria has made remarkable progress in its transition to a pluralist democracy and a functioning market economy that is in line with european requirements both politically and economically. bulgaria's accession to the european union in 2007, combined with its recent accession to nato, is a particularly positive development both for the country itself and for the wider region of south east europe. i would like to believe that the case of bulgaria will also serve as an example for the countries of the western balkans in their european orientation. however, it should be noted that there is a need for a continuous and conscious adjustment effort on the part of the bulgarian authorities until full accession. the focus of further efforts should be on cracking down on corruption and tackling organised crime more effectively. i would like to ask the european commission, in the context of the community policy on border regions with candidate countries, to draw up a new study on the impact of the accession of bulgaria and romania on the border regions of the member states. i should like to remind you that the european commission itself, through the commissioner responsible, mr verheugen, has considered that areas such as north-eastern greece, which borders both countries, are facing by far the most difficult situation at european level. the european union's policies and actions to promote transnational, interregional and crossborder cooperation and to address the effects of enlargement on the development and employment of border regions should be continued and strengthened. special care should also be taken in allocating resources and drawing up programmes for territorial cooperation for the new programming period 2007-2013.
madam president, the resolutions and positions of the commission and the council which give the green light to the accession of bulgaria and romania in the coming years clearly show the objectives of european capital which are already being achieved and which concern the annexation of these countries, the plundering of their wealth and economy, the incredible exploitation of workers, the conversion of them into satellites of nato to serve its aggressive policy. the resolutions record, to a certain extent, certain aspects of the wretched and inhuman conditions experienced by the working class and the poorest layers of the population in these countries, but they are the result of capitalist restructuring which destroys all social conquests and, on the other hand, concentrates wealth in the hands of a new plutocracy and foreign monopolies. there are indeed two bulgaria and two romania, ladies and gentlemen: the european parliament has always been a party to the european union, and it is our duty to support the european union in its efforts to achieve a common foreign and security policy. the consequences of the accession process and the humiliating conditions accepted by the governments of these countries are already visible. you've told us about successes. so listen to the hits: in bulgaria the minimum wage is 61 euros and 69 euros in romania, compared with 1173 euros in france and 605 euros in greece. the surge in imports, combined with the sharp decline in exports, led to an increase in deficits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. industry is destroyed, agricultural production is in decline the new course proposed by the resolutions and the new measures is aimed at creating better conditions, an institutional framework and infrastructures for the most unprofitable action of capital, the complete selling off of public property and land and the obliteration of any social conquests that exist. the workers of these countries, together with the rest of the workers of greece and other european countries, must fight against the policy of the european union and, above all, against the new tensions that are foreseen in the region because of the great competition that is taking place.
madam president, with the conclusion of the accession negotiations with bulgaria, i would first of all like to highlight and welcome the great efforts made by the bulgarian people and the political forces of the country to bring about change and reform and to integrate the acquis communautaire. the accession of bulgaria and romania completes the enlargement cycle opened with the ten new countries. this is a strategic development that brings the balkans closer to the european area and contributes to peace, stability, cooperation and development in the wider region. i would like to make a few critical points to both the commission and the presidency. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of the environment, which is intended to provide a framework for the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment. the first is the area of environmental protection, nuclear safety, nuclear waste management and the quality of river water. the commission has also proposed that the bulgarian authorities should close reactor 3 and 4 at the koslodui nuclear power plant in 2006, in line with the commitment given by the bulgarian authorities, and that the modernisation of the nuclear facilities should proceed smoothly with community funding from the phare programme and the european bank for reconstruction and development. in the field of industrial relations and labour law, further reforms are needed to bring bulgaria closer to european standards and to prevent social exclusion practices affecting community enterprises, and in particular greek enterprises, in border areas where there is a serious relocation problem. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. finally, i would like to stress the need for more efficient procedures and greater transparency in the field of public procurement and projects and for equal treatment of all community companies and greek companies. the european commission, through the mechanisms provided for, the annual evaluation reports and the safeguard clauses, should continue to closely monitor the effective application of the acquis communautaire and safeguard community interests after the accession of bulgaria on 1 january 2007.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the accession of turkey to the european union, and the council has already expressed its views on the accession of turkey to the european union. i believe that the meteorology on the subject of turkey is weighing on the tone and the weighting of our own political discourse. i would like to start by referring to the latest developments, in particular the final confirmation of the election results in romania yesterday: the appointment of the new president and the acceptance of the election result by his running mate put an end to any doubts about the electoral procedures. the new president should, however, obtain the necessary strong support of parliament in order to implement immediately the commitments romania has made to the european union. the romanian government has also been active in the field of the internal market, and has been active in the field of the internal market since the beginning of the year. ladies and gentlemen, the progress that romania has made - this is my reading - and in a short period of time in terms of aligning itself with the political and economic criteria of accession is significant. however, we should not overlook the need for further radical reforms with an emphasis on effective fight against corruption, changes in public administration and the judiciary, with a view to ensuring the genuine independence of the judiciary. moreover, more measures are needed in the areas of border control, asylum and immigration, and a more active fight against organised crime and corruption. at the economic level, it is necessary, inter alia, to ensure macroeconomic stability, to rationalise the role of the state in the economy, as well as effective regional and rural development policies and policies for greater regional integration and cooperation with the countries of south-east europe. i personally believe that, with the support of the european commission and, of course, if efforts are intensified, it is possible for romania to conform more fully to the union's criteria, values and principles and to sign an accession agreement at the same time as bulgaria.
council. i tried to be comprehensive in my initial remarks, but i will add that member states and regional and local authorities have experienced major difficulties in carrying out managing actions of cross-border cooperation, transnational cooperation and interregional cooperation within the framework of differing national laws and procedures. that calls for appropriate measures at eu/community level in order to reduce the difficulties. harmonious development of the entire community territory and reinforced economic, social and territorial cohesion imply enhanced cross-border cooperation and the adoption of measures to improve the implementation conditions for cross-border cooperation.
council. in reply to the honourable member the council stresses that it has not altered its position following the us decision to recognise the former yugoslav republic of macedonia under its constitutional name. at the first meeting of the stabilisation and association council between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia of september 2004, the council noted that the differences over the name of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia persisted and encouraged the search for a mutually acceptable solution, within the framework of united nations security council resolutions 817/93 and 845/93, by greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. indeed, in a joint press statement of the eu-western balkans forum of november 2004, the foreign ministers of both the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia recalled the need for all participants to agree on finding mutually acceptable solutions and concluding agreements on outstanding issues with neighbouring countries.
the council has not yet taken a decision on the name of the new member state, but it is not yet clear whether the name of the new member state will be used in the future. what further action does the council intend to take to persuade the firum government to take a more constructive stance in the negotiations in the new york talks to find a mutually acceptable solution?
council. that is more or less another question and i have nothing to add to what i have just said.
council. the council would like to inform the honourable member that the implementation of the idabc programme falls within the remit of the commission, which is assisted in this by the pan-european egovernment services committee. the council would also like to remind the honourable member that the idabc programme decision will only enter into force on 1 january 2005 and thus the implementation of the programme as such has not yet started. the council invites the honourable member to refer this matter to the commission for more details regarding the preparation of the programme. the council is aware of two studies launched by the commission under the ida programme. one study aims to establish the needs and benefits to businesses and citizens of pan-european egovernment services in order to reinforce a properly oriented approach to the delivery of a pan-european service. the second one aims to identify future infrastructure services needed to support the pan-european egovernment services. likewise, in the preparation of the idabc programme, the council also acknowledges the organisation of by commission of a conference due to take place in brussels on 17 and 18 february 2005, which will focus on the requirements for pan-european egovernment services for citizens and businesses and on the factors needed to implement them.
council. apart from these major actions, the ida unit is preparing to launch the programme fully during the first half of 2005. to that end, anticipated activities are being analysed and formats for work programme entries, project implementation plans, etc. are being developed.
council. as the council has repeatedly said, safety and security lie at the heart of the european union maritime policy. measures to improve them, as well as to protect the marine environment, represent the bulk of legislation adopted in this area in the five years since the erika disaster. in its response to this and other similar incidents, the council has consistently supported a dual approach: on the one hand, incorporating the provisions of international conventions into community law and thus ensuring stricter compliance with the highest global standards and, on the other hand, adopting specific community provisions wherever imo standards are lacking or insufficient. in this way a comprehensive body of maritime safety legislation has been built up and is continuing to expand. amongst the specific measures adopted in the intermediate aftermath of the erika disaster, were firstly those under the erika i package aimed at enhanced port state control to combat substandard shipping; stricter monitoring of the classification companies use to conduct safety checks on ships; and the accelerated phasing-out of single-hull oil tankers. secondly, there were those under the erika ii package aimed at the establishment of a community vessel traffic monitoring and information system and the creation of a european maritime safety agency whose main role is to monitor the effectiveness of the eu maritime safety rules in general. other measures include those designed to improve the safety of ships other than oil tankers, such as passenger vessels, to ensure a minimum level of seafarers' training and to reduce pollution from ships. for improving security in the wake of a number of terrorist outrages, a regulation on enhancing ship and port facilities security was adopted earlier this year, incorporating the solas isps measures into eu legislation and expanding them to include domestic traffic. currently under consideration by the council are measures to implement the imo international safety management code within the community, so penalties can be imposed for certain pollution offences and port security enhanced. finally, looking ahead, a new package of maritime safety measures is expected to be submitted for examination by the council in spring 2005.
mr president, the proposal for a directive on the imposition of sanctions against marine pollution has been left pending during the dutch presidency because some countries, including greece, are opposed to it. i am aware that greece has proposed some amendments in order to accept this directive. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet in a position to take a decision on the matter.
council. we understand the problem and i take note of your remarks. unfortunately i have nothing to add to what i said before.
council. from its outset, at the beginning of the year, the darfur crisis has been one of the absolute priorities on the eu agenda. throughout the year the european union has been at the forefront of international efforts to contain and resolve the conflict in darfur, to stop the massive human rights violations taking place there and to prevent an already very serious humanitarian situation from deteriorating further. member states and the community have contributed to the humanitarian relief efforts with more than eur 325 million. the union has also strongly supported the african union's leading role in addressing the crisis. the eu has thus played a key role in support of an au-led ceasefire monitoring mission and is now actively supporting the deployment of the expanded mission. almost 60 per cent of the total cost of the expanded au mission is financed by a contribution of some eur 80 million from the peace facility, and several member states are providing additional financial and logistical support for the mission as well as planners and military observers. the council has repeatedly, most recently on the occasion of its meeting on 22 november, confirmed its readiness to continue to provide support for the deployment of the mission in terms of financing, logistics and material, as well as personnel if requested. the council considers that the deployment of the expanded au mission in darfur, together with the eu-led negotiations between the parties to find a political solution for darfur, offers an opportunity for a comprehensive solution to the darfur conflict. in parallel to these efforts, the eu has contributed to the pressure from the international community on all parties to guarantee free and unconditional access for humanitarian aid and to ensure the security of the civilian population. the council is closely monitoring compliance by all parties with the demands expressed by the eu and the rest of the international community and the commitments it has undertaken with the un. to this end, the eu collaborates closely with the un secretary-general's special representative for the sudan and actively takes part in the work of the joint implementation mechanism that evaluates the implementation of the joint communiqué which consists of the commitments of both the sudanese government and the united nations. in line with resolutions 1556 and 1564 of the un security council, the council has also on several occasions reiterated its willingness to take appropriate measures, including sanctions, if no progress is achieved on the commitments made by the sudanese government.
council. i agree. as you may know, last monday the council also discussed the situation in sudan and we are seriously concerned about the deterioration of the security and humanitarian situation in darfur. the council therefore called on all parties to abide in full by their commitments. we also encouraged them to conclude the negotiations between the government of sudan and the splma before the end of the year. the council will continue to monitor the situation in darfur and will consider taking appropriate measures, which could include sanctions in accordance with un security council resolutions 1556 and 1565 if no tangible progress is achieved in this respect. hence the situation is and remains high on the agenda of the european union.
council. the council would like to point out that, from a general point of view, in the conclusions that the council adopted after its meetings of 4 and 5 april 2001 on a recommendation from the european commission on the maximum permitted blood-alcohol content for drivers of motorised vehicles, the council encouraged the commission to monitor closely and evaluate the effects of its recommendation for a period of three years, paying specific attention to the proposals in the recommendation on legal blood-alcohol content and, if appropriate, submit new legislation in that respect. up until now, the council has not been informed of the outcome of such an evaluation. that being so, the council underlines that these conclusions do not call specifically for the introduction of a maximum permitted blood-alcohol content of 0.2 mg for professional drivers. furthermore, the council would like to inform the honourable member that it does not have any information on how many member states have introduced the aforementioned bac levels so far. however, the council would like to draw the honourable member's attention to the commission recommendation of 6 april 2004 on enforcement in the field of road safety, which, in recommendation 6, calls for an intensified application of random breath testing with an alcohol screening device as a leading principle for surveillance of drink driving. the council wants to ensure the honourable member of its strong and ongoing commitment to improving road safety and to tackling all potential sources of road accident fatalities. in this context it refers to the council conclusions on road safety from june and december last year, both of which explicitly refer to stricter enforcement, in particular seatbelt use, speeding and drink driving. in the light of this ongoing commitment the council had an exchange of views during its meeting on 9 and 10 december 2004 and adopted the council conclusions on road safety, in which it agreed on the need to focus road safety policies in four important areas, namely enforcement and best practices, vehicle safety, improving safety on european roads and funding road safety. in this context the council underlined that, with regard to road safety enforcement, priority should be given, notably, to driver behaviour that causes high accident risks or could have severe consequences such as driving under the influence of alcohol.
council. i am sorry my answer did not satisfy the honourable member. i thought i had explained the many actions and things we, as a council, have done to show our commitment to this issue. we have to put our formal position into effect, as well as the formal position of the council towards individual member states. as i tried to explain before, the matter is now in the hands of the commission and we await its evaluation and proposals.
council. the council notes that increasing overall expenditure on research is indeed a central element in the lisbon strategy and one of the keys to making the eu more competitive in the global economy. the council and member states have repeatedly committed themselves to achieving average research and development expenditure of 3 % of gdp by 2010. the recent kok report once again highlighted the need to make good the under-performance in relation to this target. notwithstanding this general statement, the council does not share the honourable member's view that it is the stability and growth pact which is preventing member states from achieving the lisbon objective. perhaps more fundamentally, the stability and growth pact should be used as a tool to encourage national expenditure on individual budget components over and above others. firstly, it is clearly possible to fund research while respecting the pact. this is a very important point that leads on to the second point that the pact is not the factor limiting investment in research. research funding is rather a matter of national priorities. thirdly, i would note that the level of r&d expenditure is not solely dependent on public finance. the target covers privately-funded r&d as well, which can be encouraged by a number of means in addition to public expenditure. the key to reaching the 3 % target is the two thirds of r&d spending that should be privately funded, not the one third that should come from public funds. finally, i would like to recall that the pact is a framework for the management of budgetary policies at global level, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of public finances over the longer term. all expenditure has to be paid for, even if in the longer run we would hope that investment would have positive returns. when the ecofin council discussed the pact on 16 november 2004 and this precise issue was raised, there was a broad majority of member states against pursing the possibility suggested by the member and excluding certain categories of expenditure from deficit calculations. in the analytical assessment of the reasons for an excessive deficit, the council will always take into account the type of expenditure and the likely long-term impact. but the council does not share the honourable member's assessment regarding the exclusion of r&d expenditure from deficit calculations.
mr president, i could have agreed with mr nicolaï on everything he has said if i had not thought that it is not possible to achieve the lisbon objectives without research going too far. i would therefore agree with you if the answer were to be any other subject. but i'm sorry, but i have to disagree because research is the foundation of lisbon.
commission. mr president, i am pleased that parliament supports the commission's proposal for the extension of the community action programme on civil protection for the years 2005 and 2006. i very much appreciate the efforts that have gone into this report, in particular the work of mr papadimoulis, the rapporteur. before i go into detail on this report, i think it is worth recalling the work done under the auspices of this action plan since its adoption in december 1999. the objectives of the civil protection action programme are to help to ensure better protection for people, the environment and property in the event of natural or technological disasters across the community. the action programme has funded a range of useful projects, exchanges of experts and workshops that build invaluable cooperation and also mutual assistance between the member states' civil protection services. the action programme supports and supplements efforts at national, regional and local levels. emphasis has been put on major projects concerning prevention, information of the public, crisis management, disaster medicine and networking among the different volunteer associations active on the ground. in recent years we have seen major disasters. you will recall the floods in central and eastern europe in the summer of 2002, the prestige oil spill, also in the same year, the unprecedented heatwave and devastating forest fires in southern europe in the summer of 2003. this year we were shocked by the violent terrorist attack in madrid and saddened by the earthquakes in iran and morocco. these events clearly illustrated the need for further action to strengthen prevention and preparedness measures and also to enhance our ability to respond rapidly and in solidarity as a european union. the commission believes that major progress has been made in recent years in the contribution and role of the eu in civil protection. the rapporteur has rightly highlighted some issues in the report, and these are both valuable and constructive remarks that we will take into account in our future work. i would like to react immediately to a number of points. the report recommends 'better sharing of information on available resources, expertise and successful strategies and practices at national level'. the commission agrees that our database of resources should be further upgraded and contain more data on responsive capacities, associated costs and available equipment. the commission is currently working with member states on these issues. the report argues for an improved operational framework for volunteers and for the establishment of guidelines for their work. this is a helpful suggestion and echoes the emphasis that the commission is now putting on the work on this subject, which was and will remain a priority for financing in 2005. let me turn to the issue of financing assistance during emergencies. this is an issue of concern to us, but depends on having a sufficient level of funding available. for the time being the budgetary resources available only permit financing of experts who travel to the scene of disasters to assess needs for assistance. additional financing depends at present on the donating and receiving member states. i should like to add that there is also, as you know, the possibility to use the eu solidarity fund to provide compensation to a country suffering severe damage from a disaster. finally, the report asks the commission to provide a report on the programme in 2006. we have no difficulty in accepting this request. with these remarks, i reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur and to parliament as a whole for this thoughtful and constructive opinion. may i add that my colleague, commissioner dimas, sends his apologies for not being here. he is in buenos aires and asked me to replace him.
the rapporteur. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. floods, heat waves, fires, earthquakes, major pollution incidents with toxic waste or oil spills, such as the one at the prestige, but also serious industrial accidents, even terrorist attacks. my country, greece, is in the throes of a bus hijacking with several hostages whose lives are in danger. these risks and disasters are causing many victims and increasing economic damage, are shaking the economies of the countries affected and are particularly affecting the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the population. this is why action by governments is needed, as well as strengthening preventive measures and widening the possibilities for response. the community's response to this problem is the community action programme in the field of political defence. this programme ends in a few days, on 31 december 2004, and it is necessary to adopt this proposal that i have prepared in order to avoid a gap until the new programme is ready. i therefore support the commission's proposal to extend this programme for the next two years, and i also support the commission's proposal to increase the budget for the civil defence action plan from eur 1.5 million per year in 2004 to eur 2.4 million per year for the next two years. you tell me, that's not a big raise. i agree with you. but it is absolutely necessary to finance the increased needs arising from enlargement and to finance the action programme to combat marine pollution which has been adopted in the meantime. unfortunately, it seems that the council of ministers does not share the same understanding as we do in the european parliament and the commission, and the council needs to understand that the decisions we take to do things also require the money needed to implement them. otherwise we will not be consistent in our obligations to the people and it is precisely in times of natural disaster that they need to see the european union and the european parliament alongside those who voted for us and sent us here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in studying the problem, i identified seven areas where improvements are needed in practice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first, better exchange of information on available resources, experience and successful strategies at national level. the information bank, its data and the capacity for rapid communication and coordination must be improved, i.e. the information database must be upgraded. secondly, more training for the intervention teams. experience has shown that more joint exercises are needed to improve cooperation and interoperability. thirdly, improving communication, coordination and early warning systems by providing immediate information to the public and linking up with other information networks. fourthly, the financing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, such as the creation of a european network of national authorities, the creation of a european network of national authorities and the creation of a european network of national authorities. the commission will continue to support the development of the european voluntary service. sixthly, to strengthen research and development to develop emergency systems to help respond more effectively to disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for the reasons i have already explained, and not to be too long in coming because it is already quite late, i ask the european parliament to give its full support to this report, as did the committee on the environment, which adopted my report almost unanimously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposals for a comprehensive management and more efficient operation of the mechanism and the extension of the programme are also appropriate, and we support them. in recent years we have all experienced, within the european union and around the world, disasters with far-reaching and direct consequences for the lives of a large number of our fellow citizens and for society and the economy in general. in response to these events, we adopted the community action programme. as we all remember, events have caught up with us. we reacted afterwards. let us today take a good qualitative and quantitative look at the situation and let us see how we can improve the existing mechanism in all its functions and at all stages, from prevention to treatment and rehabilitation and reintegration into society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the rapporteur proposes better exchange of information and good practice, more training for intervention teams, mobilisation of volunteers, better coordination between the actors involved at european, national, regional and local level. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. the matter we are discussing tonight i hope will find the council's agreement because it is a very important matter. it not only solves everyday problems but also has great symbolic meaning. the citizens feel that the european union is intervening in their lives in this way. the european citizenship thus acquires a specific and deeper meaning. such a programme brings together directly european institutions, national and local bodies and local organisations, something we are lacking both at national level and in coordination between the european union and national bodies. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action programme for the period 2000 to 2006 is a good one, but it is not enough to make the european union more visible to the outside world, and it is also a good way of showing its human face, which is what you are trying to achieve, commissioner, as i heard you say in the previous report.
in writing. we would like to point out that funding for natural and technological disaster response is so limited that it effectively cancels out any possibility of meaningful intervention and effectiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but how can this happen when everything is judged by strict economic criteria and by the interests of capital? the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. when funds are not allocated for flood control projects, when seismic standards are not respected, when forests are left to the mercy of arsonists and land-grabbers, when ship owners are left homeless and unpunished after enormous ecological disasters, what protection can we talk about? how can effective civil protection be organised when public goods and services needed in critical situations are sold to private individuals or converted into repressive mechanisms (see firefighting)? and on the other hand, even these scraps of so-called "recovery" how are they exploited? if you want a shocking answer , ask the greek earthquake victims of 1999 who still live in containers !
the people of zimbabwe have the right and the responsibility to solve their political problems, and no one, much less the european union, the united kingdom and the united states of america, has the right to intervene politically, economically and militarily in zimbabwe or any other country. it is precisely because the people of zimbabwe have achieved independence from britain after a long and bloody struggle and because they are claiming their land, the richest part of which still belongs to foreigners and mainly to the british as a result of colonialism, that a new plan of intervention is being prepared which aims to turn it into a modern colony. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. a network of so-called 'non-governmental organisations' is being set up, most of which are shadow organisations and have nothing to do with the popular and social movement but are preparing the ground for interventions. the resolution is unacceptable to the communist party of greece, which has even withdrawn the complaint of arms trafficking by british agents. to end sanctions, to support the people of zimbabwe in their struggle to maintain their independence against neo-colonialism.
on behalf of the team. mr president, twenty years have passed since the bhopal tragedy in india, with its enormous humanitarian and ecological consequences, and i think it is particularly important that the political groups have taken the initiative in adopting a resolution in the european parliament. but, mr president, it is not enough to simply call to mind, it is not enough to denounce the often unfair way in which multinational companies operate in developing countries, it is not enough to express our humanitarian sensitivity in words. the tragedy of this kind may be experienced again by people in other parts of the world if there is no international mobilization to set up international control mechanisms for the operation of multinational companies, to protect the environment, to protect human rights and workers' rights. the european union's role in the un and other international organisations can be more effective here too. the draft resolution, mr president, sets out the problems which continue to exist and which many colleagues have spoken of in the wider bhopal area. in my view, however, it does not fully reflect the efforts made by the federal and regional authorities in india over the past few years in the areas of medical, economic, social and environmental rehabilitation. and important policies have been put in place that we should not ignore. in conclusion, mr president, i believe that the best way to express our sympathy to the victims and their families is for the european commission to take initiatives in cooperation with the world health organization to implement medical and environmental rehabilitation programmes.
