mr president, as the very first speaker from the new countries i feel deeply moved.
(hu) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the inaugural address, today work begins for those of us who are new members in the european parliament. we hungarians have been living at the heart of europe for thousands of years, and over the centuries we have often had to fight to protect europe's freedom and faith. if our fight for freedom in 1956 had not been crushed by the soviet tanks and the hungarian servants of the dictatorship, then representatives of our country would have been sitting there in rome, among the founders of today's union. then we hungarians too would have taken part in the construction work based on security, freedom and wellbeing that we want to strengthen and renew now with the constitutional agreement. today's great enterprise of the reunited europe, the constitution, can only be successful and long-lasting if it is based on firm foundations. what are these foundations? first: the equal rights of the states that form the union. we hungarians have often enough been in a subordinate position, deprived of our rights, and that is why we are particularly sensitive to any violation of equality of rights. what is needed today is not a two-speed europe, but the rapid and complete removal of the remaining discriminations. second: lasting union can only be based on strong self-identity. reference to christian roots would be the acknowledgement of the spiritual source of our freedom and pluralism today. without christianity, europe would only have a brain, but its heart would be missing. the christian humanist tradition will keep us together and it will not segregate us. the culture of love born from christianity is manifested in beethoven's ode to joy as well. during the years of the twentieth century when europe was torn apart behind the iron curtain, faith and the church represented for us the institutional bond to the idea of europe. thirdly: europe must be a union of unions, a system whereby the unions strengthen and build on each other. for us hungarians, because of trianon, the injustice of the treaty of trianon, it is increasingly important to have the rights of minorities represented in the principles of the constitution. ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget; we have a responsibility to our forefathers and our children alike to fight against the bloody dictatorships of the twentieth century. when we are preparing the reunited, revitalised european constitution, please bear in mind the words of the hungarian poet, attila józsef: our job is to finally sort out our mutual business, and it is not a small job.
(hu) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member from a newly acceding country, i urge you to accept the constitutional agreement before the european elections. primarily because this constitutional agreement would establish a model that is equally attractive to the existing and the new member states alike. in fact, by recognising this, a number of countries wanted to hold the european election jointly with the national elections in respect of the constitutional agreement. the values and objectives stated in the constitution will extend and strengthen the foundations of the european social model. equal rights, as a core value, had been placed, for the first time, in this document, alongside freedom, democracy and the principles of a constitutional state. the aim to achieve a high level of employment is replaced by the plan to achieve full employment. the establishment of peace and security is coupled with the fight against poverty and the protection of human rights. on that basis, a vision is outlined of a new europe with greater welfare and solidarity. the inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights will further enrich the european catalogue of human rights. we hungarians are delighted that as a result of our efforts the rights of minorities will be included in the constitution. on the basis of the constitutional agreement, the european union will operate on a more democratic basis and its activities will be more transparent. the importance of the european parliament and the role of national parliaments will further increase. ongoing dialogue with civil organisations, churches and religious institutions will be opened. the constitution will provide an opportunity for direct civil initiatives too. the legal foundations and forms of cooperation for the struggle against international organised crime and terrorism will be expanded and strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, people everywhere expect the european union to make their lives easier and better. discussions on institutional reforms often seem quite complex for the citizens. these issues cannot make the democratic constitutionalisation process fail. i greatly appreciate the effective work of the irish presidency and i trust that with the support of european public opinion and as a result of the efforts of the european parliament, we shall successfully complete the second phase of the constitutionalisation process.
(hu) i should like to express my thanks and gratitude to you that hungary has been able to become an integral part of the european union. i express my thanks and gratitude to my own region too, to ajka, in the county of veszprém, that here today, in parliament, i can talk to you in the language of my native country. this morning, during the constitutional discussions, one member of this house said that constitutional cooperation meant force. we know another type of expression for libertinism, which, for us, represented 45 years of isolation and the iron curtain. that's why we believe in cooperation. we must not just limit ourselves to cooperation relating to the environmental and health effects of cross-border sustainable development, but i can assure you that even in such cases we will be quite decisive. as a result of the trianon treaty, hungary lost two-thirds of its land and one-third of its population and its minorities now live beyond its borders. that's why it's very important for hungary that romania, bulgaria and croatia should join and that the capabilities of the ukraine and serbia should be increased. it is very important for hungary that the demographic deficit itself is eliminated in every region as soon as possible. the examples are too fresh of situations where minorities are in the majority at regional level, yet are still unable to exercise their autonomous rights. the examples of cases where minorities are deprived of their rights to vote and to be elected on the basis of various legally fabricated reasons are too fresh. the soon to be introduced constitution will provide a further guarantee that the ruling powers will never have the chance, even in theory, to repeat this dreadful period of the twentieth century.
(hu) ladies and gentlemen, the european workforce is expensive. sometimes this is referred to as a negative aspect, as a factor that hinders competitiveness, yet this is a good thing. this provides a decent standard of living for the workforce, for those who are no longer or not yet employed, and for those also who have to be absent from work temporarily. price is, of course, an important factor in competitiveness, but it is only one of the factors, the other one being quality. this is why we were happy to see the lisbon strategy in 2000 state that the future of the european economic and social system will stand or fall on success or failure in making europe the most competitive, knowledge-based economy by 2010. the key to this, however, is education, training, life-long learning and furthermore, research and development. we are now in the year 2004. in the research and development race the gap in favour of the united states has opened even wider. the harmonisation of education and training policies of the european states is at a very low level, and the lifelong learning concept is not spreading at the speed it should. as a result of all this it looks as if the us is coming out of recession, in the far east the dynamic growth of the economy based on cheap labour is continuing, whilst europe continues to stagnate. the european social system is, therefore, a value that we must maintain, yet the european economy is less and less able to produce the financial resources for this. it would not be good for us to remain helpless in the face of this situation, without knowing what to do, but it would be even worse if, despite being able to see the way out, we did very little of what was needed. ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian nation had a poet with fire in his heart, sándor petőfi, who roused the nation to action during the days of the 1848 revolution with these words: "today is the right time, but tomorrow may be too late". in the next five years it will certainly not be the right time for europe, but perhaps it will not be too late either. let us leave this as a legacy to our successors convening on 19 july: it will depend on their wisdom, determination and ability to cooperate whether the unfavourable processes can be reversed or the european social system will remain just a congenial experiment that is doomed to end in failure because of lack of economic support.
(hu) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of workers is one of the most important fundamental european rights. the possibility for workers to move freely is important for both the employees and businesses alike. the free movement of workers ensures competitiveness and the constant growth of the union at the same time, yet it cannot be detached from the question of social security. in terms of the social security network the acquis communautaire does not allow discrimination between employees on the basis of their nationality. one of the most important objectives of the union that has now been enlarged to 25 members is to significantly increase its competitiveness, and by doing so, to keep abreast with its most important challengers, the us and japan. the lisbon strategy that was created in 2000 covers this, and this objective must play a key role in the near future in national legislation and also in the european parliament. however, we can only implement the lisbon strategy successfully if we significantly increase both the rate of employment and the mobility of the workforce. unfortunately, during the last few months, this quite promising process has run aground, and the voices of those who, on the basis of some irrational fear, want to delay the free movement of workers have become louder. we have all seen the labour market surveys that deal with the expected movement of workers from the ten new member states. these data show that barely one per cent of those in active employment expect to find employment in other member states during the next few years. the panic is, therefore, completely unfounded, the new member countries, including hungary, will of course comply with the provisions of the accession agreement, but rightly expect that the limitations of the labour market will not be born out of crass prejudice and fear. provisions made in respect of the stability of individual countries must always be based on specific surveys, and the question of the expected migration of workers from the new member states must be addressed on an individual basis. we object on principle to the approach that does not differentiate between the new member states. it is in europe's mutual interest to make optimum use of the trained workforce and the strategic advantages offered by the flexibility of the labour market, and on this basis to become the fastest growing region in the world.
(hu) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to express my joy at being able to address you now as a full member of this house from hungary. even 20 years ago, the representatives of the hungarian national party regarded the achievement of close union with the countries of the western half of europe as their main objective. during the last fifteen years, however, we have been able to learn quite a lot. the not yet completely finalised political, economic and social changes are quite interesting. we must work towards the objective that more and more people in hungary and in the accession countries think that joining the european union is not just a necessary solution, but something that really helps to ensure that people have a secure future. we have to create an economy where no elements can surface that would distort competition, but which at the same time allows the accession countries, including hungary, to catch up. it is imperative that smaller villages, even the most disadvantaged rural areas, should be able to retain their population. not only the difficulties associated with the closure of industrial production but also the disadvantages associated with changes in agricultural production, and even in tourism, must be taken into consideration. in hungary, for example, lake balaton and its surrounding area require development, financial support is needed, because in addition to the main european roads the remainder of the road network should also be further developed, by establishing a north-south axis route in the western and central parts of hungary. we can say that we are ready to join the european union, but further major economic and social changes are required. the other political party in hungary talks about modernisation. i do not think it is fashionable any more to advertise modern socialism, here in the institutions of the european union, fortunately, nobody talks about it any more. we agree on the development of a knowledge-based economy and it access possibilities. emphasis must be placed, however, on managing the disadvantages of globalisation, increasing the number of jobs, and enabling the accession countries to catch up, with retention of the main elements of the social model. accession will only be successful if the countries catch up with the existing members. our wish is to be part of this.
(hu) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is its values that make europe great: the values of freedom and solidarity and its determination to adhere to them. this is why the european union is one of the most successful, most attractive ventures, as demonstrated by the present enlargement, because the new member states and those that will join in the future have chosen europe largely because of these values. we're talking about freedom now, the four basic freedoms. permit me, mr president, commissioner, to talk about one of the four basic freedoms now, namely the free movement of workers. over the last few months in all the member states and yesterday here, in this room, we have all been celebrating the enlargement. we could freely celebrate the enlargement; we had good reason to do so. even so, a small shadow was cast over the celebration: the fact that only three of the existing member states guarantee the free movement of workers, and only one of them sweden does so without restrictions. ladies and gentlemen, we liberals oppose any restriction on the free movement of workers. even a temporary restriction. we do so firstly on principle, and secondly for practical reasons. on principle, we are opposed to the fact that one of the basic rights is limited, and on principle, we feel that this limitation negatively affects the festive mindset as regards accession. there are practical reasons for opposing it as well, and i fully agree with mr. vitorino. the fears are exaggerated; every survey shows that the free movement of workers, or the demand for it, is not significant in scale. as far as hungary is concerned, we are well aware that it will affect barely 2% of the workforce. those affected will be well-trained young single people, 85% of whom want to find employment in other countries for just one or two years. ladies and gentlemen, something else is happening here. the european union wants to become a region of growth and competitiveness, and the lisbon process aims to achieve this. this will be difficult to achieve unless a unified and flexible labour market is established. without this, europe will never achieve the targets for 2010 set out in the lisbon process. if the workforce is not allowed to move to the production capacities, then the production capacities will move to the workforce. this connection must also be borne in mind. for this reason, at the end of my speech, let me ask the commission to make a statement similar to mr vitorino's in the form of a commission statement for removing restrictions, and we call on the member states to include this matter on the agenda of the next council meeting in june, and to take immediate steps to resolve it.
(hu) ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, commissioner, it is an honour for me, as the youngest member of the european socialists, and as a member of the european parliament from hungary and karcag, to have an opportunity to express my views on a subject that it would not have been possible to discuss 15 years ago. not only because a 15-year-old would have had difficulty becoming a member of the european parliament, but also because at that time we did not see the slightest possibility of hungary becoming a member of the safe and free region provided by the european union. in the twenty-first century, our freedom and our security have often been in irreconcilable conflict with each other. everybody would like to avoid challenges that threaten the security of one's nation, but nobody wants to damage our civil, political and social rights won during the eighteenth century and strengthened by many revolutions, including the 1848 and 1956 hungarian revolutions. it is difficult to resolve these conflicts, but i believe that the members of the enlarged european union, together with the citizens of europe, will be able to find the answers. the european area of security and the schengen agreement provide protection for us. at the same time, we must not forget that the borders of europe are not the same as the borders of the european union. in our efforts to make the union safe, we must not ignore our solidarity with those nations whose representatives do not sit here with us at the moment. europe, and within europe, the european union will only be able to become a great and strong community if its responsibility to ensure its safety goes hand in hand with its unquenchable desire for freedom as well. ladies and gentlemen, i do not need to talk to you now about the hungarians' commitment to freedom, because you all know my people. i have often been asked what we hungarians bring with us into the european union. among many other things, we bring our faith and our readiness to act for a europe that is free, secure and based on solidarity.
mr president, first of all i would like to warmly welcome the new commissioners. i am fortunate to know many of them. they are very experienced, skilful, good people. i would like to congratulate them and would like to express my full support for the new commissioners. they are not junior commissioners, they are not taking turns in riding in the bmw, they are fully-fledged commissioners with the same rights and the same experience as any of the others. mr prodi, you made some very important and interesting statements on the free movement of labour. that is a very sensitive and important issue. i would like to ask you whether you are ready and prepared to take a firm stand on behalf of the commission to abolish all restrictions on the labour market. it would be a very important and positive message for the new member states.
the dutch presidency's programme is realistic and we welcome this ambition. one of these realities is the accession of the ten to the institutional framework of the union on 1 may, a major step towards the reunification of europe. i am therefore addressing the two objectives of the presidency. first, the presidency programme provides for the rapid and effective integration of the ten in the council's decision-making procedures. it's important, but it's not enough. in order for enlargement to succeed, to strengthen europe and the european economy by its own means and to play an active part in the lisbon process, it is essential, in addition to technical integration, to identify the obstacles that already exist, to gradually reduce them and to deepen the content of integration. this is linked to the other important objective of preparing agenda 2007. the presidency aims to have the principles and guidelines negotiated by december 2004. well, we're looking at an interesting and exciting debate. but we all need to aim for successful integration to be one of the main principles. if i were to rephrase this phrase in the spirit of the dutch presidency, i would say that it is an ambitious but realistic goal that successful integration be primus inter pares between the principles. prime minister, you've been talking about brainwashing overseas. we hungarians are particularly concerned. we support all your efforts to make this a fundamental principle of the budget. finally, i would like to express my appreciation to the dutch presidency for initiating dialogue and communication on the richness and diversity of our european culture. because we're very strong at it. good luck with that.
i was sent to the european parliament by the socialist party of hungary, a new member state, and i live in a region that has worked and suffered for the democracy that has opened the doors of the european parliament to us. over the past few years, we have learned to use the same words when talking about european processes. you, mr president, were very persuasive when you stressed the importance of competitiveness in the lisbon process. but we have suffered the social transformation that has split our society in two. so it is very important for us that lisbon solidarity, the inclusive society, the chance to catch up, is not just a nice word, but is organized with political will and social support behind it. you have a very great responsibility, because it will be up to you whether we have this united political will or whether we use the same words, and behind them there may be a host of intentions. i am convinced that the questions which my colleagues have put to you are also your questions. and so i would ask you to ask yourself if you want to and can convince the skeptics. can it give hope to the hopeless, as there are so many in our region and in my country? and if you answer yes to that, then i ask you to make sure that the heart of europe not only takes the problems of the new member states to heart, but also to shoulder.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the disturbing news coming from the southeast border of the european union, from the region of serbia commonly known as vojvodina. in recent weeks and months this summer, there has been news of growing ethnic tensions and attacks on and harassment of hungarian nationals, including attacks on cemeteries, anti-hungarian inscriptions and the burning of the hungarian national flag. i would like to draw the attention of this house to how important it is to stabilize the situation in the balkans. europe has been doing a great deal to stop violence and ethnic cleansing in this region. the serbian authorities are not reacting quickly enough to this situation and showing themselves to be ignorant or negligent in many ways. it is the responsibility of all democrats who care about the security of our common europe, and also those who care about minority rights and human rights, to bring pressure to bear on the serbian authorities in regard to this very important and highly dangerous situation.
mr. president, i join you in your festive mood, you are the first to lead in czech, i am the first to speak in my native language, hungarian, in this house. it was not easy to create this opportunity, but it is not easy to balance the budget between needs and opportunities. i believe that the preliminary budget presented by the commission is more in harmony with this than the one presented to us by the council. in two areas in particular, it is important that parliament adopt the european commission's opinion. one is the issue of agricultural aid, where the council believes that the amount available for future use would be reduced by eur 1 billion. this deduction shall also apply to items for which payment has been previously committed. the other problem has already been mentioned by several people: the reduction of payments from the structural funds in 2005 by 3 billion. the european commission's original proposal was well founded. it took into account the framework of the preliminary financial plan and the fact that absorption capacity in the member states is constantly increasing. it is therefore appropriate for the parliament to support the commission's proposal, as opposed to the council. but we should give back the 3 billion in such a way that all the member states can share in the surplus, and it is fair that the new member states should not just receive a few words of solidarity, and not just be able to move within the narrow limits set in copenhagen. this proposal is based on the same arguments on which this house last year raised the payments of the ten new member states by 12 per cent for this year, 2004. let us show solidarity now with those member states where the task of catching up is more important than others.
it is in the interest of hungary, and probably also of the other countries that are now joining, that the euro remains strong, that it is attractive to the population, because we ourselves have to enter this zone, and this will be extremely useful for us. i support the need for a strict framework for member states to preserve the prestige of the euro, and therefore i am opposed to weakening the stability pact or, in extreme cases, abolishing it. i also agree that the commission has looked at the experience of recent years and has envisaged more flexibility in application, which should, however, reinforce the willingness to comply with the strict framework conditions. i also agree with the commission's approach that the revision of the pact should take into account several aspects: the sustainability of public debt, the protracted slow growth, the harmonisation and coordination of economic and fiscal policies. however, care must be taken to ensure that the uniformity of the system of requirements and the equal treatment of persons are preserved. i consider this a very important criterion. so i think it's a very complicated system for me to have a country-specific conditionality. instead, i think we should focus on the specifics of each economic situation and integrate the management of that into the overall system. such a feature may be that, in addition to analysing excessive indebtedness, account is also taken of aspects such as the excessive openness and vulnerability of small countries, but above all the principle that cohesion, i.e. the integration of the less developed countries and regions, is one of the union's main objectives, is kept in mind. this is particularly true for 10 out of 25 member states, new entrants, where, in addition to ensuring growth conditions, the assessment of compliance with the criteria must take into account certain public finance reforms, such as the reform of the pension system, the need for higher investment ratios and, at times, higher inflation rates. but in this case, they're natural economic phenomena.
on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists and the hungarian socialist delegation, i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution today. the european parliament is acting when it takes a firm stand for the rights of minorities. we call on the serbian government to take immediate steps to stop the violent acts against hungarians. the day before yesterday, when the president of the republic of hungary held a good-natured meeting with president tadic, 15 kilometers from the border of the european union, in the house of the man who first dared to reveal the physical abuse he suffered in szabadkán-subotica, the word "death" was painted on his door. today's decision by the european parliament is an important confirmation that the rule of law and respect for human and minority rights are a prerequisite for the partnership between the european union and serbia. this is a fundamental political issue. serbia and montenegro is an important strategic partner of the union. it is in the interests of all europe to stabilise and secure this alliance. we do not want to punish with today's decision, but we want to encourage serbian democratic forces to take a firm stand against nationalism, xenophobia, without compromise. this is in the interests of the serb majority, the national minorities and the european union. it is important that, although there are initial positive signals from belgrade, especially from president tadic and prime minister kostunica, that they are finally facing the gravity of the situation and taking steps to investigate anti-hungarian actions. i am pleased that the committee on foreign affairs has accepted my proposal to amend the budget of parliament to provide an additional eur 5 million of eu support for the democratisation process in serbia. today's decision by the european parliament gives the minorities in vojvodina, including the 300 000 hungarians living there, the confidence that europe will not leave them behind. (laughter)
we are pleased that our motion for a resolution has found agreement and enjoys the support of all the groups in this parliament. the proposal draws attention to a series of violent acts committed primarily against persons belonging to the hungarian national minorities and symbols of minorities in vojvodina. we are sending a message to the serbian authorities to take seriously the often negligible violations of human rights, to prevent more serious ethnic conflicts that can only be resolved with serious efforts. the increase in the frequency and severity of violent acts shows that the absence of legal consequences and the silent toleration may have been seen as a disguised incentive by perpetrators and agitators. i would like to emphasize that we have no intention of stigmatizing serbia, especially since the country has a minority law of european standard. yet, these events continue to occur today. central and local authorities therefore have a huge responsibility to translate the principles into effective practice. it is, of course, to be appreciated that the serbian side has finally made a commitment in the last two days to do everything possible to curb these incidents. it must be the powerful international echo that's doing it. however, if the european union does not take these promises into account, they will remain promises. yesterday, for example, there was another threat, now a death threat, which has escalated to the point that the young man and his family, who are not experiencing this for the first time, want to leave serbia, asking for political asylum. it is in our common interest that the tradition of harmonious coexistence in the vichy republic should be restored. it starts in everyday life, so that young people are not afraid to speak another language on the street, or if someone goes out at night to have fun because they speak hungarian, they do not get slapped and do not have to immediately think about emigrating. so i ask all my fellow members to give their support to the motion. thank you, sir. (laughter)
in the last year and a half, the process of democratization in serbia has stalled. one of the many worrying signs is the increasing frequency of attacks against minorities. what is even more worrying is the complete indifference and inaction of the serbian authorities. serbia's leaders must know that the country's european future is at stake. serbia can only enter into closer relations with europe if it can guarantee fundamental human rights and guarantee the rights and personal security of minorities. we no longer expect words from the serbian leadership, but actions. it's not enough to say something reassuring about the case, the perpetrators must be caught and brought to justice. we can only rest if there are visible consequences to these cases. unless we see a substantial positive change, we intend to keep this matter on the agenda. (laughter)
mr president, a very sad part of this story is the fact that most of the victims of ethnic harassment are young hungarians. traditionally, vojvodina has been a region in which many cultures and languages have existed together, and its youngsters have learned each other's culture and language. i am very happy to hear that our dutch and german colleagues from different political groups understand this, which means that this is also well known to europe as a whole. this issue, as has already been mentioned, is not only a hungarian one. during tito's decades in power, many nationalities lived together in the autonomous region of vojvodina: croatians, czechs, slovaks, romanians, poles, germans, jews and other minorities lived together with hungarians and serbs. now this peaceful coexistence is endangered by some extreme nationalists: serbian politicians, policemen and other wrong-doers. the hungarian youth of vojvodina has a very rich, special and progressive culture, which is different from the culture in the hungarian motherland. these young people were born into the spirit of a multiethnic culture and they understand both the hungarian and serbian cultures and traditions. the young should be the future of the hungarian minority in vojvodina. if they leave their homeland, not only the hungarian community but also serbia in its entirety will lose a valuable part of its culture and its democratic future. young hungarians in serbia want to be good hungarians, good citizens of a democratic serbia, but, above all, good europeans. they want to remain in the land where they were born. let us help them to stay in their homeland. the western community reacted too late in many cases to the use of ethnic harassment in the balkans. we have all seen the tragic consequences. this time we have to answer without delay and send an encouraging message to the hungarians, emphasising that they can stay in their homeland in a would-be democratic vojvodina, in a would-be democratic serbia of the future. (applause)
as these weeks continue to witness atrocities against the hungarian minority in vojvodina, as politicians of hungarian origin are insulted and threatened, and people are beaten simply because they are not members of the majority society, it is our duty to raise our voice against these violations. our strong action is also needed because in the past year and a half the serbian government and local authorities have done nothing to restore public order and to protect basic human rights. we are not aware of any case where the persons who committed the offences were held accountable. i find it particularly serious that the police there are not only cynically turning a blind eye to the fact of the hungarian beatings, but are also actively participating in these atrocities. as mayor, i express my special solidarity with the mayor of padua, lászló komáromi, who was punched in the face twice by a police commander. in this situation, we must condemn the indifference and complicity of the serbian authorities. at the same time, we must warn the government of serbia and montenegro that tolerating, or even encouraging, atrocities makes it impossible for the country to move closer to the european union. (laughter)
vojvodina is the last multicultural region in the former yugoslavia that has remained largely free of public violent atrocities. in other areas of the former yugoslavia, such as bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo, the brutality of the atrocities and ethnic cleansings organized by the central authorities is alarming. in the last decade, vojvodina has been turned into a war zone for serbia, and the once half-million strong hungarian national community has now been reduced by half. why would you do that? because its members were forcibly expelled politically and economically, their young men were forcibly conscripted into the serb-bosniak-croat-kosovo wars, and they were replaced by hundreds of thousands of ethnic serbs. more and more politicians and experts familiar with the region are convinced that the government of serbia and montenegro bears the greatest responsibility for the incitement of interethnic tensions, for the beating of hungarians, harassment and robberies, public burning of the hungarian national flag, grave desecrations in cemeteries. the attitude of the serbian central government to this grave situation is fundamentally contrary to general human rights and is in conflict with the norms of european minority protection. the european union has a great responsibility to resolve the situation, and a long-term acceptable solution based on tolerance must be found for the situation in the vichy region. (laughter)
given that the constitution of the european union mentions sport, i think we should also take responsibility for sport wherever we can. european citizens enjoy the positive effects of sport on education, health and social cohesion. unfortunately, there are negative phenomena in sports, and we have to be very strict about them. there's roughness, there's theater vandalism and, oh, yeah, there's the doping. doping kills clean sport and fair competition, and the use of banned substances poses a major threat to the health of athletes. if the world of sport tolerates doping, it will permanently destroy public confidence and faith in clean sport, as i unfortunately experienced in my own country at the athens games. the fight against doping now requires international cooperation. successful action can be coordinated in three areas: education, prevention and control and sanction. i think that the european union -- if it really wants to help this struggle -- can do the most in the first two areas that i mentioned, which is to take on a role in education, in education and in facilitating control, which is a very expensive operation, because a modern laboratory costs more than $1 million today, and 12 countries in the european union could afford that. there's an anti-doping charter, we don't have to invent the concept of doping, detail the banned substances and methods, there's not much we can do here. i suggest that we examine the possibility of ways in which we can promote the success of international efforts, in particular - i repeat - in addition to the financial and technical assistance of education and control.
mr. president, i have to go. i would like to draw your attention to the discriminatory treatment of employees from the new member states in the institutions of the european union. employees in the new member states are discriminated against in a number of areas. the first is that they've changed the staff regulation, the civil service act. two new categories have been created and these lower categories are applied to the representatives of the new member states. the third discriminatory element is that the secretariat staff were all recruited in the lowest category of the new member states. the fourth discriminatory element is that, before may 2004, the employees of the old member states were suddenly classified in a higher category. there is also discrimination in the area of benefits and in the area of examining in the mother tongue. mr. president, i ask you to investigate the discriminatory procedure because the people concerned want to go to the european court of justice. thank you for your attention.
albert camus wrote in 1957 that the most disillusioned, handcuffed hungary has done more for freedom and justice than any other nation in the world in the last 20 years. i would like to draw your attention, mr. president and my fellow members of parliament, to the fact that in these days all of hungary is remembering the october 1956 revolution. to the days when a handful of nations fought the mighty soviet union. the unnamed and the heroes known since then have painted the skies of europe with their blood these two words: freedom and justice. there were heroes and there were traitors. under the communist dictatorship, the nation paid a high price for this desire for freedom. thousands of hungarians were sentenced to death and executed, hundreds of thousands of hungarians disappeared and perished in the soviet union, tens of thousands of hungarians were exiled to labor camps and prisons, tens of thousands of hungarians were displaced, and millions of hungarians were deprived of their property. we are proud that, even in the 48 years since, we hungarians were the first to stand up to the soviet dictatorship, to protest against the communist tyranny and occupation. the fact that we can be here with you now, as a free, independent member of the european union family, is largely thanks to the many thousands of self-sacrificing heroes of the hungarian revolution who gave their lives for freedom.
the romani population is the largest minority in the eu. the roma face serious human rights discrimination: segregation in schools and in the labour market. sadly, in some parts of the european union very serious human rights abuses against the roma have been reported in recent years. the roma have increasingly come to be a focus of attention of european policy- and law-makers following reports of social exclusion and serious human rights abuses throughout europe. it is time to continue in the steps of the few who already recognise, here in the european parliament, the crisis of the romani population. today, we need to combat discrimination by reaching cross-party agreements for the sake of a better europe. therefore, i am extremely determined to stand up for roma rights issues and to address social inclusion and human rights to ensure the fundamental rights and freedom of our people.
i want to talk about this from the perspective of energy-poor countries. the rise in oil prices has led to a general increase in prices in our country. as a result, economic growth slows down, the budgetary situation becomes uncertain, and the competitiveness of agriculture deteriorates, because agriculture in energy-poor countries - unfortunately - consumes a lot of energy, putting jobs and social gains at risk. the cost of living is rising, and poverty is deepening. it's a sad thought. the unjustifiably high oil price is threatening global economic growth, so i can only underline what commissioner almunia said, that the main cause of the price increase, international speculation, must be broken. this requires a pan-european effort, as does the need to make an inclusive europe not just a dream but a reality, despite the problems. the european union institutions must therefore work together to help resolve the crises that have led to price increases. they need to increase their share of renewable energy to become more independent from the oil market. and they need to help set up a monitoring system that analyzes oil price movements and determines the level of strategic oil reserves. all this is being planned for the future by commissioner-designate lászló kovács, whose expertise has been questioned by some in this house.
the draft constitutional treaty, which has been adopted by 25 governments, will allow the future president of the commission to be chosen from among three candidates from each of the governments. yet this year, no government has bothered, or rather, dared, to put forward more candidates. the president-elect of the commission was not given a choice. she could only cook with the ingredients supplied by the member countries. and governments have been marking in many ways; some have sent people to the commission that they wanted to get rid of at home. but there were wise governments, and fortunately they were the majority, who helped the common european cause by proposing their most talented politicians. our group found that benita ferrero-waldner, dalia grybauskaite, charlie mccreevy were particularly good, and ingrida udre, lászló kovács or neelie kroes were particularly poor performers. a man must be at the helm to make this mixed society a unified team. a european government capable of stopping the commission's decline in credibility over the years. president josé manuel barroso has already shown himself as a strong and genuine leader as prime minister. i'm sure you'll be able to put together a good committee. the people's party will judge the work of the new commission on how much it will be able to make the union more cohesive, cohesive and competitive. bringing citizens closer together, improving the quality of life and safety of citizens, helping new member states catch up, promoting minority rights. today, any person who is personalised for short-term political gain is threatening the union's institutional stability and putting the grand plan of a reunited europe into crisis. if we were to look at our personal perspectives, we wouldn't support any more candidates. but we are looking at the common european cause. the stakes are high, and i hope the european parliament will not be ashamed. (laughter)
mr. president, i have to go. in july, when we elected you as the next president of the commission, we socialists asked you some tough questions. today, there are fewer questions, more disappointed, bitter claims, and those claims are based on experience. there's nothing wrong with what you're saying, what you said today. you know exactly what you have to say in this house and you have written with impressive confidence an encyclopedia of european values and fundamental rights. but there's a problem with his judgment, with his words and his actions. in the distribution of the funds, he wanted to please the most conservative forces in europe. you have shown none of the flexibility, tolerance you promised, and there is no guarantee that your deputy will not challenge the achievements of europe. we prepared for the birth of the first committee of 25 as if it were a celebration. you have one more day to replace the tension and anxiety with the joy of the holiday. we have a conscience, not just mr. buttiglione. and you are responsible.
i am very pleased that the european council is paying attention to this important issue. it is important to stress that the safeguarding of minority and national rights is a fundamental condition for relations with the european union and i ask the council to continue to monitor developments with the same seriousness and to act decisively if any new developments occur.
the rapporteur. i would like to draw your attention and that of the public by a short speech to the fact that the consultation procedure before this vote has proved to be a success story not only for cocobu, which i am chairing, but also for the european parliament as a whole, and can serve as a positive example for the council and the commission, the importance of which i do not think i need to stress in the light of yesterday's events. what's this about? the treaty of accession gave the 10 new member states the right to delegate one member to the european court of auditors, among other things. the candidates were interviewed by cocobu and eight of them gave a positive opinion and two of them a negative opinion. of these, cyprus, taking into account the negative outcome of the hearing, withdrew the nomination and instead delegated mr kikis kazamias. as a result of the bio, the written response and the public hearing, our committee has endorsed mr. kazamias 26 to 1 and expressed the hope that we can work well with the new candidate. unfortunately, in the other case, the council accepted the slovak candidate, ignoring the negative vote of the parliament. the committee on budgets therefore decided to request a written report from the council by 15 december 2004 on the reasons for ignoring parliament's recommendation. the members of the court of auditors must have the confidence of the parliament. mr. kazamias has received this confidence from the budget control committee, and i therefore ask you to accept our report as presented to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to a shortcoming, to a problem: we adopted a resolution on 16 september on the harassment of national minorities in vojvodina and our parliament decided that the delegation responsible for relations with serbia and montenegro would send a fact-finding mission to vojvodina, serbia. it's been two months already! i do not understand: there is a danger - that our resolution is referring to - that incidents will increase, there is a danger of escalation against national minorities. the delegation for relations with serbia did not find five members to send a fact-finding mission: it is unbelievable! it is the prestige of parliament that is at stake, it is the failure to implement a european parliament resolution. i ask you, mr president, to examine why the delegation for relations with serbia has sabotaged the european parliament's resolution.
as a minority rights lawyer committed to romania's accession, i would like to draw your attention to a growing democratic deficit. romania will hold a general election on november 28. one of the hungarian minority organizations was denied the right to run in elections on october 25th, based on a discriminatory election law and then police action to intimidate some people. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the same organization, the hungarian civic association, was discriminated against in the local elections in june. this was also criticised in the european commission's annual report, and the european people's party set up a committee to investigate the matter. the discriminatory provision of the electoral law, the discriminatory procedure of the authorities and the exclusion factor seriously violate the european standard of democracy and pluralism and the copenhagen criteria, which are the standards of a stable rule of law and a functioning democracy. and a functioning democracy is a prerequisite for eu membership.
it is difficult to accept that the basic principles that have established and consolidated the european union still have gaps in the application of human rights, that fundamental human rights are being violated, and that it is therefore justified that the european institutions from time to time make attempts to examine human rights in a social context and to define the tasks of the future. it's not an easy task. because the web of human rights spans our entire lives, and it extends from the inviolability of human dignity to the equality of opportunity for individuals, communities and generations. so after tampere and lisbon, we have to thank the dutch presidency for the hague, for looking at these issues in a social context. i would like to emphasize from the document and the accompanying parliamentary resolution that it attempts to summarise the decisions taken to protect and promote human rights in a complex system and proposes that these decisions should not follow one another but should build on and on one another. and if that is the case, then we have to remember lisbon from the hague, from a human rights perspective. the strategic programme for competitiveness and social cohesion is also sending us human rights messages today. the citizens of a united europe will only be citizens of europe if they are not at the edge of life, if their basic security is not threatened by war or terrorism, but also by the fear of unemployment, the threat of homelessness or the threat of old age, and if they are not threatened by discrimination and stigma. i therefore welcome the programme in the hague and believe that the luxembourg presidency will have a very important task to carry out in this respect, for which i wish it well.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on its report and i would now turn to one of its elements, namely the lisbon strategy. the wim kok report is undoubtedly a very important milestone on this difficult road to achieving the lisbon objectives. it is now clear that without deeper political commitment and serious efforts, the original timetable will be unlikely to be sustained. the report presented is a valuable contribution to speeding up the lisbon process and all the recommendations contained in the document, i stress, all the recommendations are worth considering. a particularly valuable approach is the holistic approach which brings the issue of job creation, the need to increase employment, into close correlation with the evolution of the macroeconomic environment. it also points to the important role of slowing or accelerating economic growth. some of the findings in the report on this matter, however, need to be treated with caution. you will have noticed that the report contains some critical remarks about the stability and growth pact. it gives this important tool of public finances and fiscal discipline a rather negative image in terms of maintaining the pace of economic growth. it should not be forgotten that the stability and growth pact plays an important role in ensuring economic equilibrium and thus monetary stability. it should be stressed that the assumption that the reform of the stability pact would have a job-creating effect in itself through the relaxation of budgetary discipline, through surplus spending, is a gross oversimplification of economic logic. it is easy to see that this would only be true if governments allocated budgetary expenditure exclusively to development. but that is far from the case. i do not therefore believe that a radical overhaul of the stability and growth pact would be in the union's economic interest, on the contrary, it would significantly reduce competitiveness in the short term. however, the criticism of the stability pact in the wim kok report undoubtedly raises a real problem, namely the key role of economic growth in job creation and employment growth. i would, however, suggest other means of solving the problem, and i am thinking in particular of creating an economic environment that is conducive to business.
madam president, mr barroso, you have shown a necessary and unavoidable flexibility which will enable you to win the majority of the votes in the european parliament tomorrow. you have promised us today a genuine partnership, which is essential because the european union is facing enormous challenges. firstly, we must revitalize the lisbon strategy, which is in a state of clinical death. secondly, the implementation of the constitutional treaty must be made a precondition for the deepening of the european union. thirdly, we must consolidate the current enlargement, we must achieve full integration of the new member states, we must guarantee the new member states equal treatment, we must create cohesion for the enlarged european union and, finally, we must make europe known because there is a huge gap between european citizens and the european union. mr barroso, for us, for the new member states, equal treatment is crucial. we know very well that there are no longer any reserves in terms of financial resources, but we ask you, like the hungarian socialists, like the former portuguese minister, in sympathy with the new member states, to find new means, new methods, more appropriate to specific conditions, for example in terms of rural development, as mrs boel promised us during the hearing. we wish you, mr barroso, and the european governments, success in these tasks, in achieving these common objectives, which are necessary for an enlarged european union.
on behalf of the group. we congratulate mr de rossa on his excellent report, which i am sure he has put a lot of work into. we also congratulate mr diamandouros on his excellent presentation on his work as ombudsman. the socialist group considers that the most important thing is to strengthen the quality of democracy, which we can achieve by putting citizens at the heart of our work. most of our objectives were identified in both mr diamandouros' and mr de rossa's reports, but there are a number of areas where we can develop further to achieve the objective of providing citizens with the best possible service. first, we call on the institutions to act as if the constitutional treaty were already in force, especially with regard to the council. if you act as legislators in the future, you should show more publicity, more transparency. i was particularly pleased to hear the ombudsman's proposal on this matter. openness and transparency can only lead to a strengthening of democracy in europe, and it is a sad fact that the council continues to operate in a closed, opaque way. secondly, we support the work that the european agency for fundamental rights is doing. as we know, the commission has just published a debate paper on this subject. i very much hope that the commission will consult as widely as possible with the stakeholders who represent and protect citizens' rights in the union, namely the committee on petitions of this house and the european ombudsman. next year the institution of the ombudsman will be ten years old, so it would be timely to review the reform of the ombudsman's statute. identify areas where the institution of the european ombudsman can be strengthened, for example in the area of access to documents. finally, i would like to congratulate mr diamandouros on his commitment to enhancing the mutual cooperation between the committee on petitions and his liaison network. i am pleased that you are helping us with our information campaign to make citizens aware of the rights granted by the constitutional treaty and their right to petition parliament and to complain to the ombudsman. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying what mr diamandouros has said on so many occasions: the only way for citizens to have confidence and trust in the union is to be able to see their rights exercised as a daily reality.
i start with a quote from the vatican resolution on the role of the internet: "the internet can bring people together, but it can also divide people on ideological, political, property or religious grounds, if it becomes a tool of aggression". and i agree with that, and i think there are basically two ways to go with the internet. but the second is something we all have a responsibility to prevent. the internet can never be a tool of aggression. the safer internet program that we have coming up is a goal that i support. this initiative has proved its worth in recent years. it has helped to make the next generation more conscious consumers, primarily by promoting information. i'm going to add a thought to this report about this element of the program, the information. the new eu member states, including my country, hungary, also have a lower rate of internet penetration. one reason is an unjustified lack of trust in the internet. i therefore feel it is important to emphasise that the information on the dangers of the internet, which i consider important in the light of the above, should always be accompanied by the promotion of solutions. if this is not the case, the growth of internet penetration could be expected to slow down in some member states. in this respect, hotline services, which are the focus of the report but are still very little known, particularly in the new member states, can be of crucial importance. it is safe to say that a real breakthrough is needed here, and that the hotlines in the member states need to work together much more effectively. so there's a lot more to do, but the blueprint that we have in front of us can help us create a safer, more human online world.
on behalf of the group. on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, i would like to thank you for allowing us to hold our meeting on 15 november in parallel with the barroso hearing. the court's 2003 report was presented at this meeting. this marked the beginning of one of the european parliament's most important tasks, the discharge procedure. at the meeting, mr vallés gave an overall assessment of the 2003 financial year. i would like to express our appreciation for the court's fair, professional and balanced report. as you know, our committee introduced a reform of the discharge procedure this year. instead of complicated, impersonal, written questions, it gave priority to the oral hearing of the commissioners. this created an open, lively, and meaningful discussion. a fruitful dialogue has been established between parliament, the commission and the court of auditors. i would like to thank the commission, and personally mr sim kallas, for his positive attitude and cooperation. in summary, the integration of the court of auditors in the discharge procedure, the emphasis on the role of the rapporteur, has generated a positive overall response, but the rapporteur, mr terence wynn, will speak in detail about this later.
i speak to you as the representative of a member state which, given its historical experience, is clearly committed to the common european project. after world war ii, churchill said about eastern europe, the eastern european countries -- the very countries that have now rejoined europe -- that the soviet union had absorbed them, and then there was digestion. let me therefore return to this process of digestion, the so-called pre-accession funds, which were supposed to help these countries to become involved in european processes as quickly and effectively as possible. it should be stressed that the court's report on the pre-accession funds is extremely frank. the method of analysis is clear and therefore forward-looking, since it will be used to examine the same funds in the coming years. and his findings are correct. it has been shown that the pre-accession funds have provided almost no assistance to the 10 new member states, as my colleague mr bösch has mentioned. for example, three years after its announcement, the call rate for sapard was 14.8%. however, it also notes that the authorities of the acceding countries have also over-complicated these conditions. in short, the court is helping to facilitate the political decision-making process, the feedback process.
mr president, a month ago i drew the attention of this house to the fact that on 16 september we adopted a resolution calling for a fact-finding mission to vojvodina to investigate the violence against national minorities. why does it take four and a half months to send a fact-finding mission? meanwhile, the violence continues. it is a lack of credibility and a lack of efficiency on our part to wait four and a half months to investigate the violence against national minorities, and then to let four months pass without implementing the resolution we voted for. the credibility of the european parliament is at stake. it is important to review in general the monitoring procedure of our parliament with regard to human rights violations.
mr president, many of us have protested against the opening of a new gold mine in rosia montana, romania. the mining project would destroy the landscape, polluting the rivers and waters of the whole region with cyanide, from romania through hungary to the black sea. the romanian government has the responsibility of stopping this awful project; however, the canadian owners of the mining company should be mentioned as well. i cannot believe that a european company would be allowed to demolish a whole city in canada, with its houses, churches and cemeteries. i ask the canadian government and the public to show the same respect to us europeans. environmental pollution should not be exported. sharing the same planet means a common responsibility for us europeans and for canadians.
i support opening accession negotiations with turkey and if turkey meets the conditions for accession, i support turkey being admitted. i know that turkey is still a long way off, but i sincerely hope that it will be able to meet the conditions, because it is in the interest of all of us. i support turkey's admission if it meets the conditions, even though i know that this has serious consequences for the future of europe. we are accustomed to a europe which is a community of values based on a common culture, a common past and common traditions. the europe that turkey will be a part of will no longer be this europe. europe will be a community of political purpose based on common interests. but i think we need this. if europe really wants to become a player in world politics, if it wants to get rid of its role as a statistic, then turkey is essential. if we want to influence the middle east, central asia or the caucasus, we need turkey. and if we don't affect those areas, then those areas will have a very negative and dangerous effect on us. turkey is therefore an important asset for all of us and it is in our interest to include it, which is why i support the opening of accession negotiations.
mr president, the hungarian socialist delegation congratulates mr eurlings on a very good report. we regard the situation of national minorities as a matter of principle. without a wider territorial autonomy for the kurds, hungary and the hungarian socialists will never vote in favour of turkish membership. for us, it's a matter of principle. as chairman of the intergroup on traditional national minorities, i believe that the situation of non-muslim minorities deserves special attention. ethnic and religious minorities and, above all, women must be respected. the negotiations have started, but we do not yet know the outcome. these negotiations are an opportunity for turkey and the european union, but they are no guarantee.
one chapter of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european people's party and the european democrats is about bringing europe closer to its citizens. i am convinced that the creation of the commission is in itself a step towards bringing the european institutions closer to the citizens. the european parliament is the only directly elected institution of the european union and, for the first time, the election of the european parliament and the creation of the commission have created a clear and unambiguous direct link in the sense that the policies of the parties with the most votes on the issues of greatest interest to the citizens of europe can be more clearly reflected in the policies of the commission. the european people's party and the european democrats believe that the new commission will have three fundamental issues to address in the next five years: competitiveness, cohesion and security. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am convinced that growth, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and, through this, job creation, research and development are fundamental european objectives that promote the well-being of european citizens. as regards research and development, i would add that the european people's party has a firm policy of promoting research based on ethical principles. i would also like to draw the attention of the socialist group leader to the issue of security, that if we look at the question of security from the point of view of european citizens, crime, crossborder crime, illegal immigration and terrorism are indeed interrelated issues. it is no coincidence that the issues of an area of freedom, security and justice are so closely intertwined and, from the point of view of our citizens, our voters, they are virtually inseparable. the third, and perhaps the most important, task is cohesion, the creation of a united europe. the newly formed european commission inherited a ready-made situation, an enlarged europe, and a person coming from a newly joined country, here in parliament, but also in other european institutions, sometimes has the impression that he has not really understood europe, the european union, that it has expanded to this extent. new possibilities for the creation of european unity must be created, new steps must be taken to ensure that this undertaking, the greatest enlargement of the european union, is a success. this is a fundamental interest not only for the citizens of the new member states but also for those who have been members of the union. this is why cohesion policy needs to be strengthened and enlargement consolidated. the expansion is only legally completed. in social and economic terms, there is still much to be done and the european union must strengthen its instruments for catching up and restoring the unity of the european union. the european union has naturally become more diverse with enlargement, but it has also become a region with many more problems. solutions must be found to these problems, and new questions - such as ensuring the rights of minorities - must be addressed in a common european way. i would like to highlight the issue of roma minorities and all the issues that can be dealt with with the help of the commission, with the cooperation of the european institutions and with parliament taking into account the views of the directly elected members.
mr. chairman of the committee. when we first heard you here, at the strasbourg headquarters, nearly six months ago, you made a personal confession. since then, your personal belief has been expanded and restructured, as you are also the head of the european government, their objectives are now defined jointly, and we have a new perspective on commenting on the objectives and evaluating their implementation. however, let me point out that when we first heard you, you promised that parallel processes would reinforce each other in your policy. to put it another way, he promised a traditional euclidean political organizing job where parallel values don't cross and cancel each other out. it's a big challenge, though. i would like to mention two examples which have been raised several times in the course of today's debate. in lisbon, he promises a europe of competitiveness, growth and jobs. but i would like to underline what my colleagues have said: competitiveness, growth and employment must not be at odds with the interests and values of social inclusion. it must be said again and again that social inclusion is an expression of european solidarity if it can transcend national borders and create solidarity throughout the whole of a united europe, also between individual countries, to lift up and empower the weak and the vulnerable. and to do that, we need complex programs that help those who are out of sight (and those who will no longer be able to enter the labor market) to rehabilitate both human resources and the environment. complex programmes are needed to level the playing field in the labour market between the old and newly joined countries. the other major package is the programme for the promotion of freedom and security, security and justice. there is no freedom or security, no security or justice. martin schulz has referred to it, and i have heard from a high-ranking european official that the threat of terrorism is present alongside refugees at the borders of the european union. i hope you reject this view. nor can it be accepted that a different culture or religious commitment outside of christendom can be the basis for any suspicion. to prevent this, concrete legal action against discrimination is needed, and i ask you to remember that you have pledged your personal commitment and your organisational work to ensure that the appropriate legal action is taken.
the judges of our actions are the citizens of europe. i feel that with this compromise budget we can look them in the eye, because this budget gives us the means to achieve our goals. but will the framework outlined in the 2005 budget be sufficient in the longer term? we understand that governments, because of their lack of national budgets, are trying to squeeze out spending. but if spending falls below a certain level, it becomes meaningless, because if goals remain dreams, then every euro we spend is a waste of money. this is not the budget we have now, but we should do much more in some areas, such as making our businesses globally competitive or making cohesion countries catch up faster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and now, when you're planning the next cycle, the question is, what's the point of setting long-term goals, of saying numbers for years to come, if you're not going to achieve them? we who lived under soviet rule have lived through, experienced what it means to produce five-year plans of superfluous numbers. i would very much like the union to avoid these and i hope that it will be so and i support the budget for next year. (laughter)
i would like to comment on the enlargement of two neighbouring countries. in the case of croatia, a people and a country with a european tradition and a preparedness to join the european union is asking to be admitted. since the croats lived in a common state organization with the hungarians for more than 800 years, and for 400 of those years as part of the habsburg monarchy, in their law-abiding behavior, in their social and economic organization, they are completely similar to the hungarians. i myself visited zagreb several times in the 1990s and more recently, and i saw that, on the basis of their institutional preparedness - at the level of government, economy and parliament - there is hope for the negotiations to take place to the same extent as hungary had in 1998 when we began our negotiations. the economic and social readiness of the croats also allows us to not only start accession negotiations in the spring of 2005, but also to conclude them independently of other factors and other countries such as turkey. this can be a positive message for other western balkan peoples and governments heading to europe. the accession of romania is a major step forward for european development. after all, the european people of a european country, including 2 million hungarians, will enter. it is a win-win for foreign policy and the internal market. hopefully, being admitted to europe will also help romanians to discover and even preserve the benefits of their own country's diversity, as opposed to their current behaviour. maintaining european solidarity also means paying attention to the effects of enlargement on member states with external borders, as austria did this year. a monitoring system should therefore be established to monitor the actual implementation of commitments more frequently than is currently the case, on a six-monthly basis. the effective functioning of the community system is a key issue for romania, if we think of environmental protection, competition policy or the areas made sensitive by internal opening - animal health, customs, income taxation. if, for a few years before and after this membership, the scrutiny involving the european parliament is lagging behind, it is necessary to mobilise eu resources for institution building, if necessary at the expense of other objectives. and if that fails, then yes, let's say, specific sanctions. in order to be able to assess the individual situation, i consider it necessary to separate the accession treaties of romania and the promising bulgaria and, if necessary, to define flexibly the date of the accession of romania, which i so much desire.
mr president, hungarian citizens voted for membership of the european union with an overwhelming majority of 83 per cent. they did so in the belief that after many lost decades hungarian society could become a part of the common european social model, including strong social policies for everybody, real improvements in environmental matters, free movement of labour and solidarity for common standards among the 25 nations. that is the goal of this huge european project. besides a permanent and almost endless enlargement, we should not forget the original idea of deepening the existing union by the approximation and harmonisation of our standards of living, infrastructure and labour market. if we are deeply concerned about the ageing population and the lack of labour forces, why do some member states close their labour market even to the skilled workers of other eu member states? the new financial framework does not seem to answer some of the basic questions – at least as far as i am concerned. is 1.24 per cent of the gni of our member states enough to establish a common social model for us? is it enough to cover the expenses of the brave environmental initiative natura 2000, designed to save our nature and biodiversity? if we are so proud of our cultural values, as has been mentioned in this debate, why do we spend only one per cent of our budget on culture, education, etc.? if 1.24 per cent of gni is such a low amount to build up a common european social, environmental and cultural model, why are some member states even considering reducing this amount? finally, does the council believe in a strong social and cultural union and is it ready to provide the basic financial sources to create it?
on behalf of the group. i congratulate mr van orden on his excellent report (in which i am sure he has put a lot of work) and i thank the commission for the excellent work it has done with regard to the applicant countries. bulgaria technically closed all accession chapters in the summer of 2004 and is moving towards becoming a full member of the european union in january 2007. the report welcomes the reform processes and measures taken (for successful implementation) as envisaged in the accession treaty, but highlights the shortcomings in certain areas that need to be addressed. we believe that bulgaria will be able to meet the requirements of membership and will continue its efforts to complete the necessary reforms agreed in its commitments successfully and within a foreseeable timeframe. the main areas of reform are justice, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the report welcomes the positive changes in the field of minority affairs that have led to the so-called anti-discrimination law on 1 january 2004. it stresses the importance of enforcing the law, as there is still a lot of discrimination against roma living there. the report welcomes the achievement of economic conditions and notes that bulgaria is a functioning market economy and will be able to meet the market requirements and competitive challenges at the time of accession. the european parliament and the socialist group will continue to monitor the system, monitoring the effectiveness of implementation and the fulfilment of commitments. the socialist group hopes that bulgaria will sign and ratify the accession treaty as soon as possible and become a member of the eu in 2007, based on the progress made in preparations and the results achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr moscovici on his very objective and well balanced report. i agree with mr rehne and mr nicolaï, who have expressed very objective views. for hungary, romania's accession is of twofold interest. on the one hand, there is the question of good neighbourliness and, on the other, the question of the hungarian minority community: it should be noted that more than half a million hungarians live in romania. that is why i can say that our national interest is romania's accession in two years' time. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the nastase government for its great contribution to the historic reconciliation between romania and hungary. we have a strategic partnership today. although there is still a lot to be done, there has been a lot of progress in the last ten years. i would like to highlight three key issues that need to be resolved. firstly, there is the question of genuine decentralisation, genuine regionalisation. the second is environmental protection: the cleanliness of rivers is a cross-border issue. finally, there is the matter of minorities, the roma and the hungarians. i would not like to make the implementation of the different forms of autonomy a precondition for romania's accession, but it would be good to open negotiations with the new government, tripartite negotiations between the romanian government, the hungarian parliamentary party and the hungarian government, as has been done for south tyrol or the island of aland in finland. the european union has good examples of this. it would therefore be desirable to start negotiations and i am in full agreement with romania's accession without delay and without delay.
of all the former communist countries, romania's legacy is perhaps the most weighty. ceaucescu and his associates have destroyed the country, destroyed its economy, divided its society, and terrorized its citizens. the last 15 years are not a clear success story. many, many precious years have been lost because of the continuous delay in reforms. i therefore hope that romania's newly elected leaders, new president and new government will redouble their efforts to meet the challenges facing the country. i would like to highlight two tasks in particular. the commission has also proposed to improve the social integration of the over 2 million roma in romania, where they are severely lagging behind and in a very difficult situation, and to improve the state of environmental protection, since romania's environmental situation is far below that of the other acceding countries and this is not just a matter of adopting legislation but of applying it consistently. i would like to draw your attention to a very dangerous mining company, rosia montana, which is threatening a real environmental disaster. it's been a long and difficult road to the conclusion of the negotiations. i congratulate the leadership of romania on this success. the focus should now be on romania's fulfilment of the commitments it has made in the negotiations. i trust that you will comply and become a member of romania in 2007. it's in our interest, as well as romania's. that is why i consider mr basescu's demand to open two chapters for renegotiation to be risky. this puts romania's accession in 2007 at risk and is certainly not in the interest of romania or the european union. in recent years, romania has made many sacrifices in order to become a member of the union. i am convinced that it is in our interest to have romania join the eu as early as 2007, and romania must know that this is possible only if the conditions are strictly met. that is why i consider it important and ask the commissioner and the commission to keep romania's commitments under review, because it is not only in our interest but also in the interest of the romanian citizens.
romanian citizens have a place in the european union, no question about it. we need each other, if only because accession can strengthen the vision of the one and a half million hungarian minority, along the lines of the eu's basic principles, decentralisation and local government. the question is whether the conditions are met: whether the conditions apply equally to all member states, since the union seems to be more accommodating towards romania than it was towards the new members in may. the report by mr moscovici takes account of the compliance with the conditions, without excluding criticism. i commend the rapporteur's willingness to compromise by incorporating a number of my amendments into the text, thereby making the report more rigorous. the report takes into account areas where there are serious shortcomings: the independence of the judiciary, the discriminatory electoral law, the restitution of church property. but i would go further and highlight the question marks that have been raised in the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria, which have only been reinforced by the abuses that have been witnessed in the elections of 28 november. as a hungarian representative, i must highlight the series of transitional exemptions requested by romania in the field of environmental protection. among them are those that directly affect the state of hungary's waters, causing serious unease among our voters, who are now asking the hungarian government to reopen the recently closed environmental chapter. it is precisely because of the question marks surrounding the conditions that i would emphasise the need to monitor closely the period between the signing of the accession treaty and actual accession. if the situation so requires, not by automatically linking the two candidate states, but by examining their actual performance. i would stress the need for regular accountability, and parliament must be involved in this process, so that we can be relieved of the doubts that we now have about the actual date of accession. i am among those who sincerely hope that our doubts will be dispelled as soon as possible based on romania's actual performance.
