mr president, i do not speak as a former mayor of bologna, nor as a member of parliament elected in bologna. of course i have already expressed my solidarity with those who have been directly affected by these acts of violence, but i also share the view of those who say that we should not give too much publicity to those who want to weaken democratic institutions by acts of violence and intimidation. i rise to ask you, mr president, and all my colleagues to support an idea which was put forward by the former norwegian prime minister in recent days: the idea of awarding the nobel peace prize to the european union. as mr poettering said a moment ago, ours is the greatest and most extraordinary peace building ever undertaken in time and space. i believe that the european union - i am not saying the european parliament, the council or the commission, but the union as such - has every right to demand and advocate that the nobel peace prize be awarded to the union as such. i hope that all our colleagues, starting with you, mr president, will support this idea. (applause) i would like to thank
president. - at the beginning of december it was announced that the european commission had completed negotiations on association agreements with syria. we never heard from him again. i think that, in the fight against terrorism, it is not necessary to dwell on the links between syria and organizations such as hamas, islamic jihad and hezbollah or on the direct aid it provides them. since the european union has over the years proved incapable of enforcing the human rights clause in all association agreements, it would be appropriate for this parliament to have the opportunity, before debating this issue, to receive from the european commission all the information on how an association agreement with a country such as syria would even be concluded.
mr president, a document is being handed over at tel aviv airport which is intended to prevent movement in the occupied palestinian territories of the west bank and gaza. anyone who wants to go to the palestinian authority territories must obtain written permission, failing which the israeli authorities can deport, arrest and prosecute anyone entering the areas of autonomy. it is, in my view, a very serious act and a violation of the sovereignty of the palestinian authority. the wall prevents palestinians from moving: it is now up to the israeli authorities to decide who palestinians can meet or not; that is, the prisoners are given leave by the prisoners. the same document was handed to european union staff and officials. i therefore ask the president, the european commission and also the council presidency to intervene and to ask the israeli authorities the reasons for this restriction of movement. i'm giving you the document that was collected by several foreign nationals.
mr president, two severe resolutions of this parliament are still allowing the fundamental right of european citizens to the protection of their personal data to be jeopardized. us agencies can access air passenger registry data directly without the data subjects' computerised consent, their right to rectification, or to a court or independent authority being guaranteed. there are no guarantees as to the duration and purposes of the data authorisation and, despite the commission's efforts, the future prospects are not reassuring either: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data on the number of european citizens booking trips to the united states is stored in us databases for years. but what is the point, for our own security, of keeping the details of all their credit cards, and how are we going to deny other countries tomorrow what we allow the united states today? we had asked for reciprocity in respect of citizens' rights, but the commission is instead proposing, paradoxically, reciprocity in the exchange of data between security agencies. let's be careful! we are heading for a worrying future if we shift surveillance from the exceptional to the everyday, from the individual suspect to the general public, if we turn all citizens into suspects.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner fortunately both spanish, on this very important point it has already been said: the first was erika in december 1999, the second prestige in november 2002: the commission has already said that it has done a great deal. what we regret is that there is still no comprehensive legislation on criminal protection of the environment and indeed the conflict between the council and the commission has sunk the hopes, at least of us environmentalists, with the famous appeal later to the court of justice. on the other hand, the specific issue of marine pollution has already been mentioned and need not be repeated. the merits of the proposal for a directive are exceptional, as was the work of mr pex, who has considerably improved it. however, i believe that this directive will only have an impact if there is the political will to implement it, also because recent history teaches us that eu directives have almost always been ignored by the member states. the real problem is the unwillingness of the member states to comply with these rules and the fact that, unfortunately, we are now resorting to shelter when there have been impressive disasters. the proposed framework decision is nothing more than a decision which is very complementary to the directive. there is an excellent agreement and therefore both must be accepted by this parliament with all the amendments which have been tabled, which i think are excellent, except for some of my personal reservations about the european coast guard, as this body so proposed with a certain approximation gives us some concern. in substance, however, this directive is going in the right direction, although it should be pointed out that it is not enough if there is no overall framework for the protection of the environment in general, without which even maritime protection will always be a lesser protection. we must return to comprehensive community legislation on the environment as a whole and i believe that the council must show itself reasonable and accept the proposal for a directive on the criminal protection of the environment in general, which, i repeat, has been blocked by an appeal to the court of justice. it would be an excellent step because we would have adequate maritime protection but overall environmental protection which could have an equal degree of protection at criminal level, since there is no doubt that criminal sanctions are what most compel operators in the sector to comply with the rules. i think this directive is a step in the right direction and does a little justice to all operators, because it brings back to full control many operators who were excluded. we know very well that international conventions excluded from responsibility the shipowners and a whole series of people who were in fact directly and indirectly responsible, and we have proof of this in the shipwreck of the prestige, where the blame lies simply with a poor greek ship's master who, among other things, did everything possible to avoid the disaster, while others would be blamed for the erika disaster and its consequences. i therefore agree with both the report on the proposal for a directive and the report on the proposal for a framework decision, and i hope that both will be accepted by this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i do not think i need to spend many words to emphasize, as has already been done by various rapporteurs and, in any case, by the speakers who have preceded me, the importance of the subjects we are discussing, maritime safety in particular, with which the various measures we are considering in this joint debate are concerned. i will simply say, without adding anything to what has already been said, that i too join in the applause for a very strong, very effective initiative by the commission in this direction, to which we hope that convergence, a common orientation also within the council, the completion of legislation that we need and to which the acceptance of the proposals under consideration today also makes a partial contribution, however concrete and significant, will correspond. as for myself, i have followed as a shadow rapporteur one of the reports which make up this package - the poignant report on the transfer of ships, not only cargo but also passengers, between the various national shipping registers - and i can only stress the positive and usefulness of both the commission's proposal and parliament's reaction as set out in the poignant report, which we fully share, also sharing the suggestions and indications, which were also confirmed this evening, as to the possible acceptance of the suggestions made by both the council and, above all, by the commission, which i consider very important. the text also makes it possible to put an end to divergent interpretations of the various conventions, thus contributing first of all to legal certainty by simplifying the procedure for changing the flag between registers for passenger ships and thus simplifying and reducing the burden of european legislation. what is even more important, in my view, is that it ensures control of the aspects of safety which are indispensable to us, since the proposed procedure provides not only for better cooperation and the exchange of information between national maritime administrations but also, where appropriate, for additional inspections of vessels: the importance of this was underlined in a perspective of overall enlargement, including countries such as malta and cyprus, which, in this respect, by tradition, by productive commitment, by the articulation of shipping and the fleet, constitute an important reference. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on their proposal and express my full support on behalf of my group for the positions expressed here.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that the commissioner is right to call for effective action in this area of maritime safety, which has been produced in this parliament. it is a series of measures that complete a mosaic of fruitful work, from the double-hull provision for oil tankers to the blacklisting of vessels that are no longer able to face the sea, to the request to the member states to provide us with a list of safe havens: the commission has already taken a number of measures during this term of office, and we must give credit to the commission for them, but we must also claim our share of them. that is why i am, and we are, convinced of supporting in particular the report by mr pex, in which i would like to stress an amendment which i have heard partly contested here but which i think we should all appreciate the usefulness of the request that a european coastguard should be established as soon as possible, in the time and manner that are appropriate. we cannot ask for more controls, we cannot ask for sanctions if we do not have the means to do so. it would also be a great step forward for a whole series of other problems we have in the european union, not least illegal immigration. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must give it a general thought. on the issues of safety - air safety, as we heard earlier, maritime safety, i would add food safety - european public opinion is sometimes much ahead of governments; the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we must be encouraged by this feeling of public opinion and also ask the council, which has been somewhat reticent on these issues up to now, not to disappoint such important expectations that have been growing among our fellow citizens in recent years and which can really give us important results for the future.
mr president, i too would like to thank mr herzog for his work with passion and seriousness. i believe, however, that the text produced by the economic committee reflects the situation and prospects for services of general interest in a more appropriate way. services of general interest are a major part of the european economy, which is increasingly a service economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. i think it would be a mistake to think that we can crystallize the situation of the provision of services of general interest in the context of a framework directive, in the context of new ad hoc legislation. these sectors are not easily defined and are areas of great development: what is a public service today can be a sector with products and services that can be fully market-based. such sclerosis, such crystallization would be a mistake. i believe, as the report on article 19 says, that the rules currently in place for the internal market and competition ensure, in themselves, that in this as in other areas, public intervention, where necessary, takes place within the rules already laid down by the treaties, guaranteeing competitiveness and dynamism to the economy that provides public services. otherwise, we will have stagnation and danger for the european economy.
mr president, commissioners, i appreciate and support the commission's strategy of multilateralism. europe, much more than the united states, needs multilateral bases for the development of international trade. there is one point, mr president, on which i strongly disagree. commissioner lamy said that negotiations on agriculture were being revived and that the european union had stopped being always on the defensive. i think that, politically, that is not true at all. of course, the united states also has problems with agriculture, from a protectionist point of view, as does japan; but europe remains a cornerstone of the world system of protectionism and welfare aid for farmers in rich countries. the so-called reform has not made sufficient progress in this regard. just look at the budgets of the european union: we continue to spend 40% of the union budget to subsidize and protect the wealthy farmers who are a declining sector of the european economy. is it possible that it is not understood that we are discussing the future of europe's international trade? and we have to do it with commissioner lamy and we would be missing something else! and with commissioner fischler? i have nothing against commissioner fischler personally, but we have the representative of the interests of 'agriculture' and not of 'informatics', not of 'industry' of the commission or the council. how is that possible? in conclusion, mr president, agriculture remains the ball in the net in the negotiations on europe's world trade, and agricultural protectionism is hurting europe even more than the third world countries.
the rapporteur. mr president, we - and therefore i personally as rapporteur - support the request of the socialist group to keep the debate on thursday morning at 10 a.m. if possible and to postpone the final vote on the first reading until the next partsession, that is to say the mini-session at the end of the month in brussels.
- mrs breyer, normally a rapporteur makes this statement before the final vote, but i can see that we may have gone too fast with the vote. your statement will be entered in the minutes in any event. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. report by mr daul (a5-0482/2003) on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (2003) 0173 - c5-0418/2003 -
- the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i shall reflect on the sector that is most dear to me - the agricultural sector - because, while i share the policy of guaranteeing the developing countries the maximum benefits of the expansion of world trade, i would like to stress how the european union has already granted so many trade preferences that it has become the main export market for agricultural products. i would also like to think about further concessions and the proposal for duty-free access, because this is not, in my view, the most effective way of helping farmers in these countries, and it would put many of europe's strategic products into an irreversible crisis. as a negotiating tactic i would strengthen the arguments in defence of the community system, precisely to ensure the mechanisms of stability of the world market, knowing that the stability of world prices is an advantage for all the members of the world trade organization. to do this and to avoid bringing the agricultural sector into a structural crisis, i insist that the outcome of the wto negotiations should not go beyond the decisions taken in berlin in the context of agenda 2000 and that price and market support remain a fundamental element of the community's agricultural policy. following the changes, which i believe are very clever, which are being made to the us support system, we need to review our domestic support to see how far it is complying with the gatt agreement and to assess the effect of aid on market prices and the competitive position of commodities. as a final point, it would be important to bring the issue of the enormous challenges facing the european union with enlargement within the wto negotiations. it is a global process which, in my view, must be recognised at the negotiating table.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague on having passed the time-limit, because i believe that it is a merit to overcome unnecessary obstacles. i begin by saying that we are astonished, shocked and want to fight against a majority of elected members of the current iranian parliament who were not previously banned and who have carried out a literally infamous policy since 1997, with the subsequent inadequacies that resulted from the fundamentalist overpower of the ayatollahs as an alibi. the problem is that this iran -- the iran of candidates and elected officials not prohibited -- is an iran that is second only to china in the number of executions. khatami's is iran, where, according to official data, not only do the stoning of women and men continue, but where, on february 3, 2003, ayatollah mahmoud hashemi-shahrudi told his colleague chris patten that, at the moment, iran does not envisage an alternative to stoning. he told us! so, if i may, it is certainly a bad insult to democracy to prevent these candidates, so-called reformists, from being elected, but what worries me is that, if elected, they will continue to live with stoning, unjustified death sentences, hypocritical moderation. we in europe are with khatami, who admits to stoning and so on, while you, ladies and gentlemen, are shocked that in nigeria - you really suspect democracy - there was a risk of stoning a woman, and they have not stoned any more. i would just ask the authors of this resolution to accept a kind of oral amendment, including figures for those sentenced to death and those executed, and to hope that those sentenced will not be executed. i hope that tomorrow we can either get 32 signatures or accept the oral amendment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, i should like to begin by congratulating mr varela on his excellent work. my group of course fully supports your report. i would like to stress two points which we consider particularly sensitive: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. we all know, after years of testing, scientific analysis and expert opinion, that fish consumption is increasing: fish is good for health, the consumption of fish products whether fresh, smoked, frozen or canned by european citizens is steadily increasing year by year, partly due to numerous and effective advertising and information campaigns. we all know that in our countries various requirements must rightly be met for the marketing of european canned fish products, particularly those of a hygienic and sanitary nature. in order to ensure adequate protection of the health of consumers, the same requirements should also be extended to products from third countries where, unfortunately, health standards are often lax or, in some cases, completely absent. we therefore strongly support and reiterate the demands in paragraphs 8 and 10 of the motion for a resolution, which stress the need to intensify inspections of products from third countries - already provided for in directive 493/91 - and the need to set up community laboratories to protect the quality and safety of foodstuffs for consumers against so-called food piracy. the delicate question of consumer health protection is linked to the equally important question of competitiveness, and hence employment, in the tuna fisheries and canning industry. if, in order to ensure adequate consumer protection, certain requirements, including the hygiene and health requirements mentioned above, which involve considerable investments of money, are made necessary and if the same requirements are not applied to products from third countries, with the inevitable entry into the community market of products at prices much lower than those in europe, the competitiveness of european tuna fisheries and the canning industry is unfairly harmed. the serious risk is the loss of jobs in a sector which has already been hit hard in recent years by a worrying socioeconomic crisis. we therefore note the need to support this sector with all possible regulatory and economic efforts, which is also an important source of employment in other mediterranean regions, including sicily, where tuna fishing and processing have provided economic support for a considerable part of the working population for centuries. we want to accompany this message of hope with the certainty of reality.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, we must indeed congratulate mr varela on his excellent work, which, at least in the words of the commissioner, is shared by the commission in its aims and objectives which we all set ourselves. this is certainly a comforting and encouraging fact. there are, in fact, the by-catch aspect and the environmental sustainability aspect of this very important fisheries sector, which have been well dealt with, and there are the other two aspects which - and here i would like to make an appeal to colleagues - we must always try to keep in balance. the tuna fishery is of great importance to our european union in the two sectors of which it is composed: on the one hand, the extractive fishing sector fleets fishing for tuna in our waters and outside the european union and, on the other hand, the important pillar which is the processing sector, which processes tuna from europe but also, as has been mentioned, from asian and other seas in particular. we must certainly pay attention to safety, particularly in relation to these products, but - and i am glad that the rapporteur agreed with me on this - we must not rush into this. we must also be very cautious in relation to customs procedures. with this report we are asking for a study, an evaluation, which the commission will have to make. i agree with the commissioner that the preferential system is a system which is so far yielding results, whereas we have one of the highest duties compared to other countries. however, maintaining the balance between the two pillars of the european fisheries industry - processing and tuna fleets - is an objective that we cannot afford to lose and must pay attention to. i believe that with the wisdom of this house - and this report is a counter-evidence - we will be able to ensure both, and thus a more prosperous and sustainable tuna fishing industry in the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, two years ago, when parliament began to examine the regulation in question, it seemed unthinkable to define the legislative procedure with a near-unanimous consent. however, with tomorrow's vote and the conclusion of the second reading, we can say that the procedure is essentially closed with the consent of all the parties concerned. it must be said that the commission's text already introduced a major innovation in the legislation on this subject, but the amendments to the original text are by no means marginal. the definition of 'surfactant', additional testing, derogation from authorisation, labelling, better and more consumer information are all aspects that really extend the protection of the environment and human health and consider animal welfare in the context of product development research. it should also be stressed that the text under consideration takes account of the difficulties of small and mediumsized enterprises, for which procedural simplifications have been introduced without derogating from the necessary safeguards. i shall not go into further detail on the text which i hope parliament will be able to vote on tomorrow by a large majority. i would like to thank all the groups and their shadow rapporteurs with whom, over this long period, the text under discussion was worked out in a very constructive dialogue. i think that everyone can derive satisfaction from aspects or parts of the text itself for their constructive contribution and still find themselves sharing the overall text in the evaluations expressed above. i would also like to thank the commission for its willingness to reconsider its proposals and for its commitment to harmonizing a text, which is certainly not easy, to make it fit for purpose. i must say that, even with the commission itself, in the face of a continuous exchange of proposals and an understanding of everyone's needs, a legislative product of mutual satisfaction was finally prepared. it is true that the council also made an important contribution to the text, and in view of the commitment made by the italian presidency just completed, it effectively accompanied the text's progress, even intervening promptly when it seemed that the common position, which was intended to start the second reading, was being suspended. i do not want to forget the commitment and interest of the irish government's representation long before the current presidency took office, showing a real desire to define the text under consideration as best as possible. that said, in view of the long history of our common journey, i refuse to believe that the only point on which there seems to be disagreement can really be a reason for initiating the conciliation procedure. i refer to the so-called revision rule, where the commission undertakes to submit to parliament and the council a text on the anaerobic biodegradability of surfactants and the biodegradability of other components within five years and, within three years, proposals on phosphates. but the problem seems to be not so much that, as the possibility that this will happen in the next legislature, and this is because the formula of ritual about the entry into force of this regulation would in fact prevent the implementation of the above commitment in the next legislature. as you know, compromise texts have been submitted on all of them, and as i said, they are generally accepted. the solution to the above problem is contained within the abovementioned texts. i am sure that all the groups will agree on this solution and i would hope, appealing to the commission itself, that the matter can be resolved happily and that a somewhat problematic process can be brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
the scope of the measure under consideration is clear and is shared. the council's common position provides an acceptable basis for compromise, but some of the issues which were discussed and approved by parliament at first reading have not been taken into account. i therefore also believe that it is desirable to improve this balance in the light of the essential objectives of this legislation: health, consumer safety and protection of the environment. the amendments tabled by my group, in agreement with the rapporteur, are designed to ensure that these objectives are achieved, in compliance with the key principles of the environmental strategy: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work. the fact that the scope of the regulation has been restricted to the biodegradability of surfactants contained in detergents does not contradict those principles. i believe that anaerobic biodegradation, the biodegradation of the main non-surface-active organic ingredients and the content and use of phosphates - especially this one - should be the subject of a specific regulation as a complementary matter to the regulation of detergents. we therefore call almost unanimously in committee for a new legislative proposal to be tabled to prohibit these substances progressively or to restrict their specific uses within three years of the publication of this regulation. that is what was agreed in advance between the representatives of parliament and the council in view of the attempt to close the legislative measure at second reading, a package which i consider reasonable, especially for a rapid adoption of the regulation. i therefore believe that the adoption of any other amendment which departs from this compromise offers a rather narrow margin of improvement, if not jeopardising the whole regulation. i therefore argue that parliament should not depart from this balance, and it would be paradoxical if it did so in fact on the grounds of reducing the environmental impact of the measure. finally, i can only congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups on their availability and commitment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the issue of cultural diversity is one we must constantly address. we do not even need to go to the wto, but we have had several debates in this parliament on the compatibility of culture and the market, for example on the subject of book pricing, copyright, and we have seen how different the ideas have been within parliament, but also between parliament and part of the commission. the commission itself has also had very different views, and i am referring here to the previous commission. we have had a few rounds of discussions with commissioner van miert on this. i believe that cultural diversity as a meaningful countermeasure to the melting pot is an absolute necessity and i am very grateful to mrs prets for this comprehensive and detailed report and also to commissioner reding for re-presenting this work in such detail today from her own perspective and pointing out that the natural ally of the commission and, above all, of commissioner reding, is and should remain parliament. i am particularly grateful to mrs prets for pointing out in paragraph 15 that parliament will pay close attention to the treatment of minority populations and minority languages, including indigenous languages, in the context of enlarged europe. this should be the guideline for the european parliament when this report is adopted. i believe that this should apply not only to the enlarged europe of the enlarging countries but also to the present member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. we have a core europe of some countries, such as italy, from which i come, which has made groundbreaking achievements here, and let me say this as a member of a minority which is not of italian origin but which forms a german-speaking austrian minority in italy. there are countries where, unfortunately, this development is still lagging behind, and here i believe that the effort and the abolition of the unanimity principle can also make a difference. we must take the concerns of those countries which are particularly concerned. i believe that the minorities and cultures this report can do a lot are seen as bridges and not as a burden.
madam president, as our rapporteur rightly says, defining cultural diversity is difficult and even risky, almost as difficult as defining culture itself. however, the resolution, which is based on a concept which is difficult and risky, does not hesitate, in 47 paragraphs, to claim to regulate, regulate and promote what is called cultural diversity, thus deluding itself, in the age of the internet, of stopping the liberalization and globalisation of culture, information and knowledge. so after having been threatened with death by nationalism, fascism and communism in the past, europe is now threatened with death by legalism. the text of this resolution is a clear example of this. its contents defy the principle of non-contradiction and even elementary common sense and end up in a gross hypocrisy. and hypocrisy makes all forms of cultural production equally meritorious, not only for survival but even for promotion, putting liberal culture and authoritarian culture, the culture of infibulation and that of sexual equality, the culture of tolerance and that of racism and anti-semitism on the same level. in fact, the contradictions in this resolution reflect those of our policy, which seeks allies in the third world to protect it and protect itself against the invasion of american audiovisual media, in the name of respect for cultural diversity, but then to finance, for example, the francophonie in africa with all its might; the culture which, in the name of assimilation, forbids the chador and other religious symbols in school classrooms, and yet has no objection to their authoritarian imposition in other countries; the culture which exalts european democracy, even when it is in disrepair, and which, however, racially considers the third world unfit to receive it; the culture which rejects the export of freedom does not hesitate to collaborate with dictators and tyrants, ignoring today the struggle of islamic dissidents as it ignored the dissidents of the communist east yesterday. i see in all this not a more respectful and fair choice to defend the heritage of european and world humanity, but an amorphous, hypocritical and contradictory protectionism that would like to protect intellectual, national and provincial elites against the dynamism and cultural confrontation that, in its essence, is always... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the report would seem to say that the enemy of culture is the liberalization of markets and the world trade organization, and that the bulwark of culture or cultures is the nation states. it 's not like that . the erasure of cultures and peoples has historically been carried out by nation states and nationalist ideologies. commissioner reding, china has carried out and is carrying out the worst genocides of peoples and cultures: tibetan people and culture, uyghur people and culture. china cannot be brought to this house as an example of fruitful cooperation for cultural diversity, unless we take as a reference for the word 'cultural' the cultural revolution of ancient memory. cultural diversity is not an abstract right; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate, but also the european parliament itself. the rules are certainly needed, particularly to combat the destruction of languages, but it is precisely the policies of teaching a single foreign language in our national states or the rules of life of the european institutions that are opposed to the spirit of diversity called for in the resolution: european institutions with monolingual or bilingual agencies that issue reports for the public without even doing so in the official languages of the european union. in the explanation of vote we, the radical members, will recall our proposals for the observatory on language policies for the promotion of the international language esperanto, for the right to free and non-discriminatory international communication, for the preservation and affirmation of linguistic diversity.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would like to say on a personal note that i wish the irish presidency all the best. we have much more in common than we could have imagined in the past, perhaps because much of the europeans here today are of italian or irish extraction. we lived with new york and with america our chance to have peace, bread, freedom, work. we had to go there to look for it, and on the other hand ireland and italy also have a choice between the counter-reformist popery, which still weighs on our two societies, and a europe of freedom, of reform and politics and civil and economic. that's all i wanted to remember and put into context. be careful, mr president of the council! europe is again risking, with the vatican vetoes on freedom of research, a very dangerous bloodletting in terms of culture, industry and civilization of its own countries. in short, mr president: pay close attention to the reform, international today; i would also like to draw the attention of the president of the commission to the community of democracies, to which the european union has been either absent or blindly hostile. in geneva, we shall discuss this again this afternoon. there is the commission on human rights. mr president, mr president of the commission, change your course! we are asking you to speak decisively on this subject, as we did with emma bonino, as we did in the past few days with a beautiful speech by president cox in yemen and sanaa, with that charter and declaration of human rights, made by the predominantly arab states, which i hope we will not have to continue for long in terms of supplementing the european union and our states. i wish you well, but i wish you well on the road to a europe of freedom and reform, not on the road to counter-reform and obscurantism!
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, we welcome very much the irish decision to commit itself to building a safer europe, one that is ever closer to its citizens and which finally has its first constitution, the fruit of the work of the convention. we are convinced, mr president, that you will have our support in achieving these objectives. ireland has the task of completing the good work of the italian presidency, as you said this morning. mr president of the commission, if this semester is to be a success, however, an important political problem must be solved: what will be the role of the community executive? the answer to this question depends on what the president of the commission intends to do. at the beginning of this year, by attacking the italian presidency, which she had praised in official conferences, you confirmed your intention to intervene in the italian election campaign. we expect you to give us a clear answer to the basic question put to you by parliament: do you intend to continue to lead the executive or have you decided to run for the next european elections? mr president of the commission, you have a choice to make, as mr poettering and mr barón crespo have repeatedly reminded you. europe needs a commission with a full-time leader this semester and next. the council and parliament need a commission which plays its role as the initiator of the legislative initiative more than it has done so far. the negotiations for the election of commissioners for the enlargement countries, the opinion on turkey, the presentation of the union's financial perspective, the support you announced for the signing of the constitutional treaty require balance and a president committed only to brussels and strasbourg.
mr president, i too welcome the irish presidency's priority, after the disagreements on key points in the convention proposal which led to the failure of brussels, to bring europeans back together. the june elections must not be allowed to deepen the union's crisis, instead of giving a new democratic impetus to europeanism. parliament wants to return to the constituent process without delay and appreciates the commitment to reconvene the intergovernmental conference and to act in a transparent manner, with ever closer relations between the union's institutions and citizens. we also share the multilateral approach to a common foreign and defence policy, to a serious partnership with the united states, to the relaunching of the united nations and to the resumption of negotiations on international trade. however, public opinion is looking to the future with concern. the spring council will record the successes achieved but it will also run the risk of weakening the social model without making the european economy more competitive in the world. we must reflect on the choices needed to relaunch the lisbon strategy, but also on the union's financial prospects, that is, on the means europe has at its disposal to meet the challenges clearly mentioned by president prodi, challenges which concern first and foremost the enlargement of the union but, in the longer term, above all the future of the young generations of our continent.
mr president, i would first like to express my deepest respect for the difficult task facing your presidency. we are aware of the difficulties in bringing to a successful conclusion an intergovernmental conference which was wrecked in brussels only a few weeks ago. the message we wish to convey to all european governments through you is simple and clear: the european parliament has a duty to give europe a constitution before the european elections. more and more, what we do is tied to how we function. strive to overcome the conflicts that have paralyzed you, in the name of a greater interest. the fact that the convention has succeeded in drawing up a constitutional text which is widely shared by this parliament also shows that political and geographical differences are not an insurmountable obstacle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have a question for you, mr president. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. can you tell us, mr president, precisely what the italian presidency has conveyed to you? i ask this because parliament has so far asked the council in vain.
mr president-in-office, virtually all our colleagues have expressed the expectations of this parliament that you will succeed in completing this extraordinary task of the intergovernmental conference and the constitution. we wish you the best, we're with you! but alongside these extraordinary tasks, mr president, you will also have ordinary tasks, to which i would like to draw your attention. i only go by titles: the first concerns the subject of research, which was also raised by president prodi and which we all agree with. but there is also an ethical aspect to the funding of such research - my colleague peter liese will speak about this - and we would like you to give us some answers on this, apart from the smoke-filled obscurantism that mr pannella spoke about and which is completely non-existent. i am concerned about two other issues, mr president, to which i would like to draw your attention: the safety of air transport and the rights of air passengers. unfortunately, it took a tragedy, the one in sharm el sheik, to confirm how much public opinion feels about this and how necessary it is to conclude a dossier which has inexplicably been blocked in the council since october last year. it is also inexplicable, mr president-in-office, that a measure which this parliament voted by an overwhelming majority is blocked: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union are respected. one government has inexplicably changed its mind - the german government - perhaps more sensitive to lufthansa's reasons than to those of the passengers. i know that your government, mr president, was opposed to this measure, but i cannot blame you because you have always taken a consistent position. i'm referring to these strange last-minute changes of heart. i am convinced that in your new role as president of the council you will be able to take these matters forward and bring them to a conclusion, because they are in the interest of european public opinion and are expected by our fellow citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that i believe - and that is why i voted for the de rossa report - that monkeys and other exotic species are valuable resources of our planet and that in a modern and developed nature and environmental protection these resources should be protected and preserved for future generations. i believe that the de rossa report is an excellent piece of work in this direction and that it will contribute to the conservation and protection of endangered species. it also points out the need to protect such species and raises public awareness of this. amendment no 2 was adopted positively. i had hoped that the other two amendments would also be accepted. it is not, but at any rate we have a workable solution here, and that is why i voted for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a venetian citizen and therefore heir to a strong historical, cultural and linguistic identity, i would like to remind you of the most serene republic of venice. i hope that all the countries of the european union will adopt policies aimed at decentralising the powers of the state towards local authorities, especially public education, culture and the protection of cultural heritage. we believe that our diversity and our cultural identities are the strong appeal of this europe, which must not be concentrated but must make room for the regional identities of all the peoples included in it. i would therefore like to stress the need to bring back to the territory and to deal with the identities on the territory, so that the great cultural heritage which unites all the peoples of this europe may be an example of democracy and above all of the great strength of our diversity in this european identity.
it is necessary, as the report argues, to arrive at a legal definition of the right to cultural diversity in international law. the lega nord is also very important from the point of view of autonomist and regionalist movements such as the one we represent in this parliament, and it rightly stresses the need to pay attention to the treatment of minority peoples and languages, including, of course, primarily, indigenous languages, also within the framework of enlarged europe. as regards the protection of the languages of minority populations, member states are invited to ensure the preservation of monuments, architecture and even everyday objects, which constitute the material history of these cultures. however, much more extensive and comprehensive action is needed to protect the immense cultural heritage of minority languages and peoples: the european commission has launched a project to develop a european database on literature, art, folklore, books and manuscripts at risk of extinction. in our own padania, for example, there is an immense linguistic cultural heritage ranging from piedmontese to the venetian language mentioned by my colleague gobbo to lombard, ladin and many, many minority languages which are in danger of extinction, for which the adoption of the devolution policy, sponsored by the current italian government, is very important.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the radical members of parliament voted against the report not only because it hinders the liberalization of international trade and creates cultural relativism and protectionism, but also because it does not seem to take into account the risk of the cultural and linguistic destruction of the nationalists and the state socialists. national policies which harm linguistic diversity in foreign language teaching - that is, the real obligation to learn only one foreign language, namely english - are dominant both in the eu and in the acceding countries. the eu institutions themselves are often only one or two languages. the decision lacks a reference to innovative methods of meeting the communication requirements on a non-discriminatory basis, for example by providing for the use of neutral languages such as the international language esperanto. references to the lack of protection of indigenous and immigrant languages and sign languages are also missing. among the concrete proposals which have already received some support at international level, i would like to mention the proposal by the radical esperanto association, associazione radicale esperanto, to set up an observatory for language policies, as was also recommended recently at the 32nd general conference of unesco. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
in writing. - (it) i agree with mr cappatto's explanation of vote and stress the importance of the osce, the organization for security and cooperation in europe. the osce promotes security by all means other than direct armed intervention and thus also works to promote respect for cultural and linguistic diversity. the osce has two bodies for this purpose, namely the high commissioner for national minorities and the representative on freedom of the media, which have placed - and continue to place - great emphasis on the language issue. most recently, at their meeting in maastricht in december 2003, the osce foreign ministers adopted a resolution on tolerance - resolution 4/03 - in article 10 of which they recall the high commissioner for national minorities and his recommendations on education and languages, including in the field of radio and television broadcasting, and the recommendations on the representative on freedom of the media, the text of which is available at www.osce.org. the representative carried out an in-depth study of media in multilingual societies from 2002 to 2003, using five countries as a starting point: luxembourg, switzerland, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, moldova and serbia-montenegro. on 13 and 14 september, the osce will hold a conference on racism and xenophobia in brussels, where the issue of linguistic diversity will hopefully be addressed.
mr president, as president ahern said this morning, respect for the rights of the human person is at the heart of european policy. however, despite all the union's efforts, human rights are still being violated in too many areas not only of the world but also within the union itself. the trafficking in human beings, the trafficking in organs, the new forms of slavery that are coming to our attention in the third millennium, the unregulated use of the internet, which in too many cases violates the laws of our countries and becomes a vehicle for child pornography, for human trafficking, for the transmission of information between terrorists who have no respect for human life and dignity, are just a few of the many examples we could give. we must demand from the united nations that those rights which are being violated in so many countries today be respected. the children who are forced to work or become guerrillas to survive are also those children in our rich societies who see their image and bodies used for commercial activities that are contrary to the rights associated with their own age. too much talk and proclamation in the face of urgent needs that require strong political decisions, such as the decision to prevent the use of children to advertise or promote gainful activities and the decision to make certain economic relations with third countries subject to respect for human rights. the countries which do not have a secular system but are bound by the application of sharia, with all that this religious law entails in violation of human rights, must be confronted with clear decisions by the union and the international community. if, on the one hand, cooperation remains a means of being closer to the people, on the other hand, maintaining stable economic relations with governments which violate the principle of human rights would be guilty and would in fact negate all the good words we have spoken in these years. we call on the irish presidency, with the support of our parliament, to stress the need for stronger and more political statements at the next meeting with the united nations.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, thank you for the information, but i would like to ask a question, make a comment and perhaps make a proposal. the question is this: do we agree that when we speak of 'human rights' we also mean civil and political rights? in other words, do we agree with the position of kofi annan who recently declared that democracy is a human right in itself, as is clear from article 21 and others of the universal declaration? the question i pose is very important, and it also emerged as a result of a conference on democracy and human rights, held in yemen a few days ago and organized by "there is no peace without justice", where fifty countries of the arab world issued a statement that states this very clearly. the second point is a comment: it is clear that the geneva commission on human rights is not only a recent instrument - it was set up in 1993 - but a very weak one, and because of this very weakness it has become extremely politicized. it is a body that never has sufficient and clear financial terms of budget, let alone institutional powers or human resources. in short, it is at best a complaints body, but even in this respect it has not done its job properly, precisely because it is made up of opposing blocs, each protecting its own members in its own regional group. commissioner, while it is true that there is cause for concern that the african group is questioning the australian presidency, it is also true - and i must add - that last year europe abstained on the request to vote against the libyan presidency on regional grounds. it is perhaps worth recalling this, commissioner, minister, because if we had had a clearer position last year, not on the country of origin but on the standard of human rights in that country, we might have had a few more cards to support the australian national candidate today. finally, a proposal: i do not think it is possible any longer to go on with simple, albeit necessary, complaints against various countries, from tunisia to vietnam, and we could add a whole list of them. i believe that the problem is to strengthen the institutions in charge and therefore the policy. for example, i still do not understand and i have been asking since 95 why the european commission does not have a commissioner for human rights. it completely escapes me, no one has ever given an answer. finally, i believe that the australian candidacy episode itself reinforces the need to create, within the framework of the united nations, the community of democracy and democracies. only institutional strengthening can move policy from words to deeds: and so far, there have been many words, but certainly very few deeds.
mr president, we appreciate the statement by the president-in-office of the council that we cannot compromise on the issue of human rights. unfortunately, the experience of the european institutions often shows us the opposite. i should like to say a few words about two issues on which i believe europe must regain all its political prestige and spend it in geneva: the first is called the death penalty. the italian presidency's backhandedness in the resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty at the united nations assembly, announced by the presidency and never presented, is a serious fact that has exposed the european union and, above all, has robbed it of political authority, demonstrating that even on a topic apparently so shared and so precious as human rights and the denial of the death penalty as a judicial solution, we are hostage to the petty selfishness of many governments. it is a battle that must be fought politically, starting in geneva. in china, last year, we recorded 3,138 executions; and there are also many executions in many so-called liberal democracies, from taiwan to thailand, from japan to india, to the united states. we cannot approach an issue like this on the level of political expediency and, above all, we cannot imagine that it is only a battle of pure principle and testimony, because it is not, and this is demonstrated by the fact that recently the governor of illinois, we believe also feeling the stimulus, the force of pressure of an international public opinion, decided to commute 167 death sentences. another important point, mr president, concerns journalists, namely the right to speak and not to remain silent, an honest figure for really understanding the quality of a democracy. over the last decade, more than 400 journalists have been killed, and very few of them have been brought to justice. in the last six months we have had 228 arrests, 250 cases of unjustified trials, many of them also in countries belonging to the so-called group of western democracies; the last case was two days ago in turkey. we believe, among other things, that the repression of journalists and press freedom has learned to use more subtle means. violence is being committed and consummated against the freedom to speak and not to remain silent, whether by muzzling, censoring or obscuring, and unfortunately these are practices that have recently found a welcome in our countries, including my own. we would like to convey to the presidency the request for a rigorous and courageous mandate, the political commitment which i would like to try to define on the subject of human rights in just two words, which are the words which this parliament has always conveyed to the commission and the presidency: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
commission. mr president, i am pleased to be here today to present the main aspects of the commission communication on immigration, integration and employment, and would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr moraes, on the excellent quality of his report. this very important commission communication completes our response to the tampere mandate and fulfils the pledge to examine the role of immigration in relation to the lisbon strategy. the communication carries two key messages. the first – which has already been expressed in the commission communication of november 2000 – is that, in the context of demographic ageing and decline, sustained immigration flows are likely and necessary if the european union is to meet the lisbon goals. secondly, the full potential of immigration and its contribution to economic development can only be realised if immigrants are fully integrated both into the labour market and into society in general. given the estimated speed of population decline from 2010 onwards and the results of the national survey conducted by the commission, there is an urgent need to strengthen integration policies, as was called for by the european council in tampere and more recently at the european council in thessaloniki. the commission is pleased that the rapporteur has laid the emphasis on the potential which migrants bring with them. it fully agrees that integration is a matter for society as a whole and that it is a two-way process, based on mutual rights and corresponding obligations, which implies that both the immigrant and the host society must adapt. i would also like to emphasise that we fully agree that we must ensure a european legal framework for the admission of economic migrants and that member states must keep to the promises made in tampere. the commission has taken note of the difficulties encountered when negotiating in the council the directive on admission for employment purposes, and is currently considering how best to approach bringing forward this politically sensitive issue. a green paper, followed by an extensive consultation procedure, is envisaged and we are also undertaking a study on the links between illegal and legal migration, which may provide pointers for the future development of a more coherent legal framework for the admission of migrants for employment purposes. adoption of the directive on the admission of researchers is also envisaged for the very near future. negotiations on the directive on the admission of students is now entering the core phase and i am convinced that this proposal too will shortly be adopted. the communication considers that, in order to ensure successful integration, there is a need for an holistic approach that takes into account not only economic and social aspects – these are very important – but also issues relating to cultural and religious diversity, civic citizenship, participation and political rights. the commission is therefore pleased to note the specific attention paid in the report to the concept we put forward of civic citizenship and the need to promote a sense of belonging. a key condition for the successful implementation of an holistic approach of this type is that there should be improved overall policy coherence and synergies between immigration, integration and employment policies at all levels and across all disciplines and between all relevant actors, bearing in mind that prime responsibility for successful integration ultimately lies with the member states. finally, i would like to stress that i fully agree with, and welcome, the rapporteur's suggestion to establish programmes for the initial reception of persons arriving in an eu member state. we are currently implementing the pilot projects in support of the integration of migrants. there has been enormous interest in these pilot projects and the programme has been oversubscribed to a factor of ten. we allocated eur 4 million and applications have been made for more than eur 41 million. let me end by saying that i believe, and hope, that this communication on immigration, integration and employment will provide a basis for strengthening integration policy for immigrants, which will be crucial both for the development of the eu economy and for the promotion of social cohesion in the next few decades.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, i am replacing the rapporteur, mrs anna terrón, who had to return to spain urgently. i fully agree with the speech by commissioner vitorino and the report by mr moraes, in the light of the opinion adopted by the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, which stresses the following points: the council's delay in adopting the legislative instruments presented by the commission to implement the tampere programme, a delay which was fortunately partially overcome in december with the adoption of the important directive on long-term residents; the need to maintain a comprehensive vision of immigration policy linked to employment and social integration policies; the usefulness of agreements with countries of origin to ensure the transfer of acquired social security rights; the need to counter illegal immigration with repressive policies, directed not against irregular immigrants but against the traffickers who exploit them, and to counter undeclared work without distinction between immigrant citizens; lthe usefulness of facilitating legal access for immigrants to the labour market in order to reduce the demand and supply of the clandestine market; the opportunity to combat discrimination and to pay particular attention to the precarious situation of immigrant women. in particular, the opinion stresses the need to create a form of citizenship - known as civic citizenship - which would enable those who are permanently resident in the union from third countries to have rights and obligations in the economic, social and political fields, including the right to vote in local and european elections, as the european parliament has repeatedly called for. only in this way will all workers and residents be able to feel part and parcel of the community's destiny, share its values, contribute to its growth and to peaceful and harmonious coexistence.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. mr president, i fully agree with commissioner vitorino that immigration is a two-fold process, with rights and duties, which must be met. this problem has other aspects too, among which we must certainly examine those of income, housing and the enjoyment of freedoms, in short, integration into our european society. i think it is about turning, in this case, these guest workers into citizens. but what kind of idea of europe are we projecting to the outside world, mr commissioner, if, as we enter the union, the schengen system, instead of facilitating the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, is often gradually transformed into a formidable instrument of control or computer filing? the problem of housing, the problem of not wanting to see, the tendency to focus and crystallize our fears in the media into ghosts that concern, precisely, very misunderstood aspects of the cultural identity of our societies. this is often a reductive image. the report, with which i fully agree, should perhaps have dealt with some of the issues which are well spelled out in the commission's communication, namely civil citizenship, the guarantee of certain basic duties, fundamental rights, respect for diversity, the fight against discrimination, women, the family, civic, cultural and political life, participation, education and, not least, religious practice. i believe that it is necessary to take account of these aspects, precisely in the light of the legal tradition and the humanistic values which constitute the heritage that is still shared by our society. we must reject, commissioner, the reductive tendency to regard immigrant men and women as mere labour from a purely economic point of view. this argument must be rejected in the strongest possible terms: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the development of audiovisual products.
mr president, the moraes report on the commission communication on integration and employment is an example of how good policy can never be built on the basis of good intentions alone: we learned it from a certain machiavelli. in this case, the good intentions are to advance the integration lines defined by the tampere european council. the report thus contains declarations of intent which are certainly common sense, for example by pointing out that the still too widespread practice of uncontrolled, undeclared work by illegal immigrants is an objective incentive to illegal immigration. however, it is also stated that the current political climate in relation to asylum and illegal immigration would be - think about it - a possible obstacle to the establishment of cooperation in the field of immigration management and integration policies. this is a clear contradiction, which can only be explained by a very ideologized view of the migration problem, of which we have had some rather obvious examples in the speeches that preceded me. this view can only lead to statements that have nothing objective to do with reality, when for example it is assumed that the opposition to illegal immigration/human trafficking translates into a repressive policy against immigrants. it is this unsecular, ideologised, misleading vision which can distort the increasingly clear and defined objectives which have recently been identified and pursued by the european union, especially during the italian presidency. it is not possible to share a vision of civil citizenship with administrative and even european voting rights, through which the european union should somehow replace individual member countries in the recognition of one of the rights - the right to an active electorate - on which, in our view, in a true democracy, only the people, and not the bureaucratic and technocratic, globalist, european superpower, can decide.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr moraes, for his availability and cooperation, and i would also like to thank him on behalf of my colleague, mr mario mantovani, who would have liked to be here and speak but was urgently called back to italy. the dynamics of immigration in the union are part of an overall framework which takes account of the benefits it brings to all stakeholders. the irish presidency also mentioned this this morning. migration flows must be managed in such a way as to serve both the interests of the host country and the country of origin. the management of these flows can in fact be a response - as has already been said - to the democratic and economic evolution of the union. the integration of immigrants - legal immigrants - who are a resource must be improved, but immigrant populations must respect the fundamental values of the host country. the proposal is to guarantee the right to vote in local and european elections to third-country nationals legally resident in the union. it is clear to everyone that such a question must remain within the strictest subsidiarity. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for the compromise reached with the governments of the member states in establishing a system of quotas for legal entry into their own countries, and thus also into europe, to be offered to the countries of origin and transit as one of the main reasons for negotiation and agreement on readmission. the question is very important to achieve this kind of cooperation. in any case, it is clear that this complex problem, together with the planning of the policy of managing migration flows, must be brought as soon as possible to the european level. the rights of immigrants must be recognized, but they must also be accompanied by a policy of regulating flows which cannot but be rigorous. finally, italy is the second largest european country in terms of the number of immigrants and the only country in europe with a very long border line to the east and south. the whole of europe must take account of this very strong migratory and social pressure, its weight and its wealth, because the real problem arises in italy but, immediately and automatically, it is transferred to all the other community countries.
mr president, i too welcome the attention with which this parliament and the commission have begun to examine a subject which is now of interest to all the countries of the union. emigration has always been a necessity, often a hope, rarely a choice. i say this from a country that has lived with the problem of immigration for many, many decades. in recent years, the issue of migration to many european countries has taken on a bitter and often dramatic connotation. i think it is necessary and useful for the various member states to adopt a common position on this subject, because i cannot imagine any positive scenarios unless all the countries of the union adopt the same rules. but i also think that this is one of the most delicate issues, one of those issues that must be governed, perhaps more than others. and to govern them means to deal with the issues of visas, employment, health, the rights and duties of citizens, citizenship. i believe that the right to vote, also at local level and not only at european level, must be a consequence of these rights and not a precondition, as has sometimes seemed to emerge in some debates in recent years. the anxiety about integration must not make us forget that our first duty, in my view, is to create the conditions for support in developing countries so that everyone can continue to live in his or her country of origin. our second duty is to encourage the return of immigrants to their countries of origin as instruments of development and growth for their own countries. the third point is that we must see migration as a matter of national interest for the old europe, which is impoverished by low birth rates and a shortage of workers. this being so, there is no doubt that we must have control mechanisms to enable us to combat illegal immigration and, in the member states, disregard for the rules of the host country.
mr president, this report is timely and very much awaited in preparing the strategies in line with the thessaloniki european council on the development of a common policy on illegal immigration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings, external borders and the return of persons staying illegally. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a position on illegal immigration policy by approving this own-initiative report by mr pirker, and i congratulate him on the results he has achieved. we are all convinced that we support the creation of a european border guard corps, financed at community level, for the creation of which a new legal basis would be required. in proposing this solution, the proposal to set up an autonomous agency for border controls is automatically rendered obsolete. it is also a shared view that the community's borders must remain open to people fleeing forms of repression and therefore applying for asylum in the member states of the union. all are also agreed that it is the exclusive right of the member states, as a consequence of subsidiarity, to establish qualitative characteristics and definitions of legal immigration, but a common policy on social integration is needed, which is now an indispensable problem in an area of security, common policy, social justice and economic justice. finally, it is right to note that the debate in the committee on civil liberties has led to the conclusion that bilateral readmission agreements between member states and countries of origin and transit should, if possible, be replaced by genuine community agreements, possibly recognised by all member states without exception, in short, without opting out. finally, in this common area of european engagement on immigration, i would like to mention - as the rapporteur also did at the end of his speech - an initiative which has complementary value in this effort to combat illegality. the regulation, which entered into force on 1 january this year - a few days ago - provides eur 250 million over five years to finance third countries' efforts to combat illegal immigration in the places where irregular flows originate. the aim of the initiative is to inform, train and help people intending to emigrate to fully understand the value of legal immigration and all the risks of illegal immigration.
mr president, mr pirker's report, which i welcome, clearly shows the need to finally establish a common european policy against illegal immigration and human trafficking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. an effective policy of coordination, the harmonisation of certain procedures and a timely exchange of information would make it possible to combat illegal immigration and many other related criminal phenomena more effectively: the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against drugs and human trafficking. it is worth remembering that an uncompromising policy to combat illegal immigration would not only give european citizens greater confidence and security, but would also allow the full realisation of the rights and opportunities for all legal immigrants. it is worth stressing, however, that the european union's external relations with all those non-community countries which wish to cooperate effectively in the fight against illegal immigration must be strengthened, and the so-called preferential quota policy must also be encouraged for those countries. finally, i do not think it is rhetorical to say that we must make every effort to pursue a convinced policy of cooperation and development, which will help to contain immigration more generally, to curb the flight of people and therefore of the labour force, but also the so-called brain drain from the countries of origin, precisely in order to avoid not only human impoverishment but also the condemnation of the developing countries to a certain and irreversible economic and social decline.
- the president has already been asked to consider the matter you raised and i believe that he will take action in the appropriate forums in the direction you suggested.
- i appreciate what you said, mr. harbour.
- the next item is the report (a5-0470/2003) by mr zappalà, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the recognition of professional qualifications (com (2002) 119 - c5-0113/2002 - 2002/0061 (cod)).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the european parliament, i have the duty to thank the commission and commissioner bolkestein for having initiated a legislative proposal of this importance. there are tens of millions of professionals in the union. they regulate and direct the daily life of all citizens. the professionals are the most important productive social category in existence. their work is the sum of culture, training, experience, innate creativity, a spirit of assertiveness, a capacity for confrontation and a sense of responsibility. it is the social category that needs to be cared for and safeguarded most, and that needs certain rules to be respected most. each state shall organise, in its own legitimate autonomy and as a consequence of its social and cultural history, its own training courses and its own access to the various professions. the union must ensure free movement and freedom of establishment, equal rights of access to employment, competition, safety, health and freedom, in the full realisation of the internal market with equal guarantees and certainties for both professionals and consumers. the daily reality is that there are profound differences within national systems and striking differences between states. the complexity of the subject and the different incidence of the various professional activities, partisan interests, errors of political assessment generate overall confusion and guerrilla warfare within the political and professional class. the latter must learn to pursue a common purpose in its own specific interest and that of the consumers who depend on it in their daily lives. the political world must abandon the superficial and partial view of the problem and must put the whole sector in order. the approach of certain political forces, of certain party representatives, the ignorance coupled with the arrogance of those who confuse art with themselves and others are damaging to the professional world and the community. i would ask the commission, which i thank again for having drawn up the proposal, to consider parliament's amendments not as a counter-proposal but as an exercise of the legitimate power and duty of the legislator, in the exercise of an active and democratically expressed representation, and i therefore ask for all possible cooperation in the interests of the union. the professional is an atypical service provider precisely because he produces more with his intellect than with specific means. he provides services which are not equal and often not comparable, and the principle of competition cannot be applied to the sector with ease, precisely because, in addition to price, professional performance is above all the fruit of intellectual creativity which is rooted both in basic culture and in the liveliness of the brain. professions and intellectual professions are not the same; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. access to certain professional activities is regulated by the states in accordance with local history and culture, but also in accordance with minimum consumer liability and safety guarantees. harmonizing is not the same as photocopying. the british system should not be exported but harmonized with the other systems to achieve automation and certainty within the union. no one represents everyone, only the legislator has overall responsibility. we have a duty to legislate in the interests not of some arrogant lobbyists but in the general interest: listening to everyone and deciding for oneself is the first duty of those who have to work for the collectivity. the recognition of five levels of qualifications, initial continuing training, the free movement of professions and not pieces of paper; consultation of the professions; the platforms proposed by recognised organisations; compliance with authorised national structures, whether orders, colleges or associations; definitive pro forma registration; equality of rights and duties; legal certainty; the elimination of bureaucratic loopholes; mutual recognition of the professions used in individual states, including, where necessary, at higher levels of the corresponding qualifications; compliance with insurance, social security and trade union rules are the qualifying arguments of the proposal. any position to the contrary is partisan rhetoric and a desire to prevent progress in the internal market and in such an important sector. any position to the contrary risks appearing as a flattening towards party lobbies that do not operate in the collective interest. the directive is important regardless of the individual content. i don't put up barriers; the whole is more important than the detail. i hope that everyone will see themselves in a european perspective and not in lobbyist positions.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. mr president, the european commission has repeatedly stressed the need to create a 'europe of knowledge' serving the european citizen's market, a 'europe based on dynamic knowledge, more competitive but also promoting quality basic education and training, especially by guaranteeing the mutual recognition of qualifications and professional qualifications as a concrete and tangible proof of european citizenship. this requires the elimination of all obstacles to the free movement of citizens, the mobility of workers and the professions in the european single market. however, this has led to some major difficulties which i will list without wishing to be exhaustive: the lack of a genuine spirit of cooperation, help and understanding; the complexity of existing national legislation; the reluctance of national authorities; the preference given to the criteria of training and apprenticeship over the examination to verify the real equivalence of training for the purposes of the recognition of diplomas; the absence of academic recognition of diplomas and other courses of study. the report by mr zappalà, which i approve and which i consider to be very balanced, has dealt with this question in a constructive and pragmatic way in the context of an increasingly united and united union, in which the european citizen will play a leading role, particularly the professionally qualified citizen. however, as i have said, there are still some situations and problems which need to be resolved and, as a committee on petitions and personally, i believe that, beyond any declaration of principle, there is a real need - as has been done here, for example, for consultation - to create effective instruments of control and promotion for the transposition of the various community provisions on the legal systems of the member states, to optimise the community system itself for the recognition of professional qualifications and academic qualifications, with the aim of making it clearer, faster and more accessible to the beneficiaries. in addition, greater attention should be paid to new information technologies, to make people aware of the need for lifelong learning. the committee on petitions has received a very large number of petitions on this subject, and this is a testimony to the fact that this situation must be tackled immediately if europe is to be truly open to culture, to the professions and to the citizens of europe.
mr president, i am speaking without having heard the debate because i have been busy in the bureau. i have been leading the committee's work for a long time and i can say that the subject has been thoroughly and deeply studied and has played the role that such an important measure should have played, one of the most important measures that parliament is dealing with. we started with a hearing which lasted a whole day and brought to our attention the problems which were discussed in depth by the rapporteur and the other members of the committee - mr zappalà, mr lehne and others, whom i thank - and through various debates and speeches we have come to the conclusion of today. we have a great ambition: we want to regulate the intellectual profession. i believe that we are actually opening up europe to a sense of citizenship and cultural organisation, because europe is made through the single currency and through all the initiatives we are taking forward, but europe is made, above all, by giving citizens an awareness of an intercommunication which concerns, precisely, the intellectual professions: the possibility of practising at a higher level in the various states and organisations within europe. mr zappalà has brought this directive forward by finding a balance - i must say - different from that proposed by the commission, a balance closer to the interests of the professional world and of the public, who are concerned above all with the quality of information. we need to qualify the professions at a higher level so that, within the states, the professional is accepted precisely for the qualification he possesses. i believe that by making this contribution we are making a great contribution to europe and a service to the citizens. i also believe that the intercommunication between the various european countries is determined at this level: the intellectual professions have always been in history - not only in italy but, i believe, in all countries - a strong point of reference to qualify a country. finally, i believe that the liberal profession, once it has a uniform definition within europe, can make a contribution that can perhaps only be surpassed by the constitution, once ratified. it is, however, an important contribution to the constitution and to european citizenship.
- before i give the floor to the commissioner again, i would point out that in order to avoid him spending all his speaking time reading numbers, the full minutes will contain a list of all the amendments which the commission approves in full, approves in part with certain amendments or rejects. the list is attached to the minutes as an annex so that the commissioner does not have to read a long series of numbers.
i am sorry to say that last night, when i was walking home in the dark, i broke my little toe on my left foot and somehow i lost the inspiration for the explanations of vote. i'm very worried. that my voting statements are made with my feet?!
mr president, my colleague medina ortega said: collective management companies are not monopolies; they are unions which serve to protect a weaker party against a stronger party. this is not always the case, and i think it should be borne in mind, as the rapporteur does in her report, that a trade union is a trade union, whereas a monopoly trade union, to which rights and duties are bound by law, is a monopoly. i do not think that the situation of monopolies, whether in law or in fact, of collective management companies is healthy because it exposes them to the risk of abuse, even serious abuse, for example, of amateur artists. i don't know the situation in the rest of europe; i know that in italy the amount owed by amateur artists to collective management societies for copyright is a real tax, which is excessive and which benefits, instead, the great organized artists. so a monopoly union is not a good union because i believe a good union is as free as possible. the rapporteur therefore says that we must be careful to ensure that monopoly situations, whether de jure or de facto, do not result, as is often the case in italy, and i believe also in the european union, in unnecessary abuse and taxes for amateur artists. if one adds to this the fact that, for example, copyright exemptions for disabled persons are only available to associations of disabled persons and not to individuals, there is a risk of corporatising copyright relations and the end user does not benefit from such situations. the rapporteur deserves our congratulations for her work.
three brief remarks, mr president: the aim of constitutional reform is to make the european union more democratic and more effective, not to calculate the balance of power between member states. the intergovernmental conference has been stuck on this point, and it is clear that the decisionmaking method which allows the veto is the real cancer of the european union, the one which kills all forms of community solidarity. for most of my group, the text adopted by the convention was or is a step forward, but certainly not a revolution. i am sure that there is a fairly large majority in parliament on this, but it seems to me that there is a fundamental ambiguity in the words of the presidency and in our debate. we are all optimistic and hopeful, we encourage the irish presidency to do its best, but what are we encouraging it to do? we even refrain from any parliamentary initiative which might disturb the presidency, we refrain from celebrating the 20th anniversary of spinelli's formal adoption of the convention. again, what are we encouraging her to do? mr hänsch, if democratization is a criterion for your assessment, then we cannot accept the results of naples, simply because the results of naples represent, in most of the proposals, a step backwards in relation to the convention and, in some cases, especially in the budgetary field, also in relation to the present situation. how can you, who represents us, accept such a thing? it's not possible! there is an ambiguity, there is a contradiction! it seems to me that we cannot simply talk about the glass half empty and the glass half full. i would like to hear from the irish presidency about the five or six points on which agreement was reached in naples. i want to know what you're going to do, what you're going to try to settle on: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i understood from what you said at the beginning of your presidency that the 82 points did not exist. so , what 's up ? do they exist or do they not exist? am i a base or am i not a base? i do not understand this, frankly, and it seems dangerous to me that our two representatives should support the hypothesis that this is a good basis for negotiation, because it is not, and this is not the position of parliament. secondly, quickly: frankly, it seems to me, once again, that the ideal way in which we can help the irish presidency is by mobilizing parliamentarians and public opinion around a project of democracy. if we decide to leave everything to the intergovernmental conference again in march and may, we will have a worse plan than the one in naples. i therefore ask my colleagues, the various parliamentary groups, which are in the majority, to insist on the idea of the assemblies, to insist on the idea of a grand parliamentary initiative in may, so as to accompany and help the irish presidency, not to leave it alone with its colleagues who, alone, will not make a better europe.
mr president, the resolution proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs indicates 1 may as the date for the successful conclusion of the igc's work. i want to explain why. the constitution must be defined before the election campaign begins, first of all to encourage voters to go to the polls - otherwise we will be disappointed and abstain - and then to submit our fundamental law to their judgment, as is our democratic duty. i would add, for the sake of clarity, and in line with what mr duff and mr frassoni have said, that for us there is only the draft convention on the table. the 82 points mentioned by the president of the italian council, or the 45 amendments i am hearing about now, have been carefully examined by us: there are many elements of confusion, ambiguity and backwardness. there is no consensus on these matters - at least not on the part of the european parliament - and i ask you, mr president, to take them seriously. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i speak for the pensioners and the elderly throughout europe, who have once again said to me: we have no time to wait for the european constitution. we are 80, 90, 100 years old: there is no time! i would also like the irish presidency to remember this, or rather to remind all the other presidents. in particular, if this gift cannot be made, i would propose, as an alternative, to give more time to the elderly and the retired. what do you mean, "what"? since the president of the council, mr berlusconi, seems to have been rejuvenated by ten years - plastic surgery is said to have been used - i would like all the elderly and retired people in europe to be allowed, at the expense of the state, to follow the same path, so that they too can be rejuvenated by ten years and have time to wait for the european council to finally give us the constitution. (laughter)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, most of the members have spoken of the beautiful europe, or the europe which should become a little more beautiful. i will speak to you about the cowardly, vile, ignoble europe, the europe that mr de villepin spoke of in moscow two days ago, the europe that says nothing in the face of open war in chechnya. ten days ago, tired of this silence, i began a hunger strike, not to ask for the moon, not out of a mortiferous spirit or anorexia, as my colleague nicholson of winterbourne said. i think it is our europe that is deadly, the europe that does nothing in the face of chechnya. mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to ask you and the commission one small thing. we have an article 14 (3) of the ec treaty which allows the european union to make blacklists of personalities who cannot enter the territory of the union. but it also makes it possible to draw up white lists, i.e. lists which would allow personalities, in this case the chechens, to move and reside in the territory of the union to assert the reasons of their people, the reasons of a "genocided" people. mr president-in-office, if, during your presidency, you could, with the help of mr vitorino, get this reform adopted, i would be grateful.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by making a general comment. i am addressing myself to you, president cox: this is the first time in 25 years that the european parliament has not been able to discuss the annual report on competition policy, which, in an area that is increasingly central to european policy, is one of the most important documents published by the commission. in recent years, the debate before the european parliament on the annual report has always been the most important - if not the only - forum for democratic scrutiny of competition policy, which, although having an increasing impact on the lives of european citizens and businesses, is one of the matters on which the parliament has only an advisory role. mr president, we have repeatedly asked - and we have done so during the work of the convention - for the european parliament to take part in the decisionmaking process on competition policy. for the first time in 25 years we have not been able to hold a debate on the annual report presented by the european commission. it is only because of this cover - because that is what it is - and the availability of commissioner monti that we have a debate today which is improperly trying to substitute for what should have been, in a clear and precise way, the debate by parliament on the broad lines of the commission's competition policy. i believe that the conference of presidents has taken on a serious responsibility: there was a misunderstanding that this report - for some reason - was no longer to be considered as compulsory but as an own-initiative report. the conference of presidents did not want to remedy the situation that had arisen, and so today we find ourselves with a debate that is half-hearted, with a parliament that is half-hearted precisely on competition policy. i think this is a very serious matter which should be reported and stigmatised in this house. i would like to make three points on the substance of this resolution, mr president, mr commissioner, which in fact transfers to the plenary some of the report for which i was appointed rapporteur, which was adopted in committee. first of all, this report welcomes the commitment that commissioner monti and the commission have made to implementing a major programme of legislative and organisational reforms of the directorate-general for competition. last week the council gave the final go-ahead to the new merger control regulation: as rapporteur for parliament's opinion on this subject, i can only regret that the amendments which parliament had suggested, and which i consider important, have not been adopted, particularly as regards the automatic transfer to brussels of some of the most important mergers and concentrations and as regards the powers. two further highlights, the first of which concerns the national samples. i agree with what my colleague from the green group said a moment ago: in europe, the process of liberalisation of crucial sectors such as energy is affected by the policies of the national champions. we have national champions in certain sectors - not only energy, but also telecommunications - which are often still national champions in public ownership, where the state is playing a double role, as controller and as direct actor, direct manager of companies. in my view, however difficult this may be - we are dealing with the big countries of the european union, very large and very powerful companies in germany, france and italy - the commission must keep a high guard and, if possible, try to achieve more positive results than those achieved so far. another point is that of the professions: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the development of the european social model. in many countries, growth in this sector is stifled by persistent corporate constraints, which disadvantage consumers and benefit professionals. finally, a more general comment on competition policy, also in relation to the amendments which have been tabled to the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. i believe that commissioner monti's policy has one single, crucial, very important objective: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure fair competition, to ensure competition in open markets for all european companies. it would be a grave mistake and an illusion to think that the choices made by commissioner monti should directly affect specific social or employment objectives. the best way to ensure jobs, growth and resources for social interventions is to ensure economic growth and competitiveness in europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not hesitate to call the adoption of this single sky regulation a historic milestone, which is the result of the work of myself and my colleague mrs sanders-ten holte, as well as of the work of many other members who have contributed over the past two years, in making it a fundamental commitment for our parliament. i think it is important because it allows us to extend our philosophy, our challenge for european integration, to our own skies, and it allows us to achieve two fundamental objectives: the first, immediate, is the construction of an integrated airspace, with the same rules, the same guarantees; secondly, it also allows us to revise the concept of sovereignty to make it more fully compatible with the process of european integration in which we are investing our passion and resources. the first objective that this regulation has certainly achieved is that of safety. a list compiled a few days ago lists the last 18 air accidents, the last 18 major air disasters that have occurred since september 11, 2001: in all, we counted 2,300 deaths. none of these disasters are linked to acts of terrorism; are air accidents related to problems concerning flight safety. well, in that sense our rules of procedure make a fundamental contribution. if air traffic continues to grow at the same rate as it has in recent years, and if we do not take action on safety, as we are trying to do with this regulation, then in 2015 - the forecasts say - we should have a disaster of this magnitude every week. the single sky is a fundamental contribution, one which it also seeks to recover in terms of organisation, efficiency and common sense. today there are 41 different air traffic control centres in europe, each often with its own rules, its own routes, its own corridors, its own flight quotas. from rome to brussels, he took over seven different flight centres, and the transitions are not always smooth: i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. this regulation puts security back on the agenda of european policies. another priority which we believe the regulation has achieved is that of cost and time. the growth in european traffic will take us from seven million flights in 1997 to twelve million flights by 2010, and today one in five flights is delayed by more than 20 minutes. it is clear that efficiency in terms of time and costs makes our companies competitive in the market: the united states is about the same size as europe, but it has twice as many planes in the air and far fewer delays. how have we tried to address these points, these issues? we have tried to do so thanks to the passionate and conscious contribution of the commission, in the person of commissioner de palacio, and the good sense shown by the council at this difficult stage of the conciliation. there are three points i want to make quickly: the first of these concerns, of course, cooperation between the civilian and military sectors. in the compromise which was finally reached, it was decided to make an explicit reference to the declaration of the member states on military matters. in this declaration the member states acknowledge that the safe and efficient use of airspace can only be achieved through close cooperation between civil and military authorities. we consider it a milestone on the road to european integration: for the first time, the military hierarchies of all 15 european countries are realizing that the skies of europe are not the property of anyone and that a balance must be found - the highest possible quality - between the defence needs of all the member states and the security needs of the users, the citizens of europe. the second important point is the role of eurocontrol. we have tried to take on and to enhance, in terms of experience and efficiency, what eurocontrol represents and can represent in the construction of this single integrated european area. and to achieve this goal, cooperation was needed and no duplication of roles and functions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it has been agreed that eurocontrol will be able to attend the meetings of the single sky committee as an observer; we are therefore moving towards a phase of strong synthesis in the contribution that eurocontrol can make to us. finally, the sanctions were provided for, at the request of parliament, on the basis of a basic principle taught by beccaria: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, i believe that the merit of this regulation - and of the european institutions which have helped to bring it about - is that it has once again overcome certain national selfishness and prudence. a single european sky from 1 january 2005 will be a clear confirmation that europe is growing, that the process of integration is growing, that this process is also synonymous with quality and security for our lives.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to use these two minutes to commend the work of the rapporteurs, who have been so tenacious and so present on a complex and nuanced subject, but who have never abandoned or lost sight of the underlying objective; i would also like to congratulate all of us in the committee who believed in their work and supported it, and i would also like to congratulate the commission which supported us and also enabled all of us to reach a result for which i am very pleased. it is a satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, which is not merely technical. some have already said that we could certainly have done more, we could have had more, we could have pushed this level of harmonization further, but i would invite you to reflect on the satisfaction we must have from a political point of view: we have succeeded in breaking a taboo, because from now on we will speak of a single sky in the presence of a provision, a single sky horizon. of course, not yet to the level we want and hope for, but still with a reality that we have used. the satisfaction is even greater because this measure is part of a framework that has already seen other measures: i would remind you that the council has approved the report on denied boarding and that - i very much hope it will be approved - which mrs maes is following on aircraft safety. i believe that we must also be satisfied because this is the europe that the citizens understand best, the europe that they feel close to, because it is the europe that increases their security, increases their rights, increases the satisfaction of meeting the needs they express. i believe that the citizens will be our main allies when, on this subject too, we want to go ahead and achieve those results which are not within our reach today but which we can certainly achieve in the coming years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my full and unconditional satisfaction with the outcome of the conciliation committee. i think that the positive prospects which have been set out here certainly outweigh the perplexities which the debate has had in previous years in committee, in the council and in the commission, and which have also been expressed today. what i would like to stress - and here i agree with what my predecessors have said in their speeches - is the political aspect and the emphasis on the historic nature of this agreement: we must not forget that this is the same emphasis with which we stressed the abolition of land frontiers ten years ago, which seemed a miracle at the time and which gave the impetus to true european integration. the agreement reached is undoubtedly a balanced compromise in the face of the many difficulties and selfishness of the various sectors which had rightly established their interests and their competences over time. the result is therefore a result that is due to all of us, but i would also like to express my satisfaction with you, madam commissioner, for your tenacious efforts to achieve this objective together with the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and, as far as we are concerned, also the members of the committee. the result is satisfactory: the new role of eurocontrol and military and civil cooperation have been highlighted, but i would also like to stress the interoperability of the european air traffic management network and the no less important issue that you, madam commissioner, have highlighted, namely the certification of service providers. the same positive point - and i would like to say that i agree with it - was made by the rapporteur, mr fava, and it concerns the sanctions against service providers and airlines which violate the rules of the single sky, in order to provide safety objectives not only for our european citizens but for all users, for all those who fly in european skies.
mr president, we certainly share the rapporteur's view on the satellite system and a civil satellite system, but i think we should not be under any illusions about the possibility of clearly separating civil and military uses, especially the military implications of civil technologies. and now, less than ever, we can delude ourselves that there is a separation between civilian and military uses in dictatorial countries like china, which are making exactly civilian tools for locating people into tools for widespread repression, which is made possible by new technologies, especially new satellite technologies. that is why i think the report should have expressed greater concern on this point. it welcomed the conclusion of negotiations with china on the participation of that country in the galileo system. in fact, the military risks are not abstract risks, but risks which the european commission itself has identified as useful from a european point of view for its own defence. i would like to quote a document - a commission position paper - of 31 december 2001, which stated: if the galileo program is abandoned, we will in the next twenty or thirty years lose our autonomy in defence; and again, on 12 march 2002: although designed for civilian applications galileo will also give the eu a military capability, and the directorate-general indicated the usefulness of a separate galileo signal for supporting the military market. well, considering the same definition of the european commission's directorate-general, as far as our technology is concerned, it is good to know that this also applies to china. the problem is not to sabotage the galileo system; the problem is to take these risks explicitly into account and to take appropriate measures - through regulations, procedures and possibly sanctions - to prevent these technological consequences, which are partly inevitable and physiological, from being extended beyond the acceptable. otherwise we should think that the speed and ease with which the agreement with china was reached is part of a wider political strategy of the european union. i apologize for my rambling and for calling into question the government of the rapporteur's country, but the attitude we have seen in recent days from chirac and de villepin towards the chinese communist regime is, i believe, a worrying sign of a very clear political and strategic direction. if adequate countermeasures are not taken, there is a real risk that the military of a dictatorial, undemocratic, illiberal country, which knows how to make military use of the secret services and spy on civilian structures, which our intelligence structures also do, will have very positive technological consequences in the coming years.
mr president, the importance of this directive has already been stressed by those who have gone before me, but in recent years it has been emphasized and taken into account in abundance precisely in order to achieve the result we have achieved. i shall not therefore dwell on the importance and content of the subject, which have already been the subject of many meetings and debates. i would just like to take this opportunity to make two quick remarks: the first is to emphasize that this directive comes into force at the very moment of enlargement, so that there will be more peace of mind, not only for the 15 states of today, but also for the 25 that will be part of our union in a few months' time. i welcome what commissioner bolkestein said about quality. i have tried many times as rapporteur to emphasize the problem of quality. i know that the commission is moving in this direction with other initiatives and so i hope that, in the award of contracts according to the principle of price/quality, quality is always the best part, especially in the performance of professionals. having spent four years as rapporteur on this subject with many other colleagues, i conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who have been responsible for such an important achievement for the european union: the president of the conciliation committee, to whom i have devoted a great deal of my time, because she was very good in the committee in conducting the final part; the commission, represented by mr bolkestein; but i would also like to mention professor alfonso vattela and his entire team, with whom we have worked for a long time, often in conflict with each other, but certainly in a constructive spirit for the european union. i would also like to thank the president, now the spanish foreign minister, who chaired the committee and who has worked very hard on this subject, namely mrs ana de palacio. the european people's party, which has given me this mandate, and for which i thank president poettering, the current chairman, mr gargani, but also all my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, in particular mrs berger, who, as the socialist party's shadow rapporteur, has been so patient and with whom we have concluded a remarkable deal; mr lehne, coordinator of the people's party on the committee on legal affairs; mr. preto, a lawyer, certainly a very valuable artificer for all that we have done; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it has concluded, in the last six months, a work which had been carried out very well by the spanish presidency, and with minister buttiglione and the whole italian delegation it has enabled us to conclude this game for the good of all. i 'm happy . i have devoted most of this legislature to this activity. i am now starting another one, but this is certainly a milestone towards the completion of the european internal market. i would like to thank you all, mr president, and again all my colleagues, for the opportunity that has been given to me.
mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to express my satisfaction with the work done by the committee on budgetary control and the rapporteur, whom i congratulate. i cannot, however, fail to stress that the picture emerging from the reading of the report is absolutely worrying: the image of a european commission closed in secrecy and lacking transparency, which does not communicate with the other institutions, is emerging. the commission is stratified by a bureaucratic complexity of functions, delegations and tasks, which in fact results in a lack of assumption of administrative and political responsibility, both by the directors-general and the commissioners. the example of eurostat, which has not yet been fully taken on board, is a good example in this respect. in fact, we have seen several times in recent months an attempt by the commission to close the case hastily, to dismiss it as if it were nothing, as if parliament's requests for clarification were in fact a great nuisance, as if the commission were a caste of untouchables above all, including parliamentarians and citizens. it is also surprising that president prodi, who is so used to strictly enforcing the rules - i am thinking, for example, of the appeal to the court of justice on the ecofin decisions on the stability pact - should have taken such a light-hearted approach to a scandal as odious as the one involving eurostat. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that, beyond the candid and vague statements of principle made by the commission - statements which we have heard again this evening - we are waiting for a strong signal, a rigorous reform which will really change the system.
- the commissioner has noted all the speeches, contributions and proposals and will of course inform the commission of what has been said during our debate. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0003/2004) to the commission on european space policy.
mr president, i appreciated the timeliness and quality of the action plan for the implementation of a european space policy which was presented to us. this policy was revived in the days when the united states was redesigning its strategy and in the days when esa and nasa were recording extraordinary successes that excited the whole world. space policy is crucial for international research cooperation, for the lisbon strategy, to ensure europe's autonomous access to space. the plan we are discussing has a horizontal dimension, i.e. it covers many community policies, from agriculture to communications. after the galileo project, we are waiting for the global monitoring project for the environment and safety. i agree with the desire to pool investment resources to achieve goals that no country can achieve alone and to coordinate research, technological innovation and industrial policy more strongly. i would, however, draw the commissioner's attention to two points: the first concerns the impact on the european programme of the new strategy decided by the world's leading space power, with which we have deep ties of cooperation. the second concerns the contradiction between europe's ambitions and the resources needed to carry out the most important part of the space programme, and this seems to us to be the question that the white paper left open. the issues which shape this programme concern the constituent process as regards the powers for space and common defence, but also the political choices, both national and community, which are required to make the european economy more competitive.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the various points raised by this oral question demonstrate the growing interest of parliament in the establishment of a european space policy that is commensurate with the union's ambitions. i thank parliament for its unwavering support on these issues and would like to recall that it was thanks to this encouragement that the commission launched a wide-ranging debate in europe on the future of the space sector, in which some of the members of parliament participated directly. following this debate, the commission adopted a white paper, some of whose important actions are discussed in your question. to develop space technology, the commission proposes to increase public spending in this area, after drawing up a master plan presenting all the missing technologies, the actors involved and a timetable of measures. the 6th framework programme can already contribute to this, in particular through the thematic priorities 'aerospace and space' and information society technologies. the commission will examine the possibilities of pursuing this form of development in the next framework programme. as regards access to space, the commission, in close cooperation with the european space agency, is supporting the launch of a number of measures, including the improvement of launch service offerings from the guiana space centre. this action has already been selected as a project under the 'quickstart' growth initiative and was presented to the last european council and adopted. work on defining the financial package has begun in liaison with the european investment bank. then a multilateral discussion with the other space powers was launched. this discussion should lead to a proposal for a regulatory framework acceptable at international level. finally, the commission is considering direct intervention in the maintenance of basic terrestrial infrastructure as part of the future european space programme. in the case of galileo, the possible role of the private sector should be that of final operator, following a selection procedure conducted by the galileo joint undertaking. the commission will also start bilateral negotiations with india. and a framework agreement has just been signed between the european community and china. the commission is expected to adopt in the coming days, i.e. on 3 february, a communication based on a detailed report prepared with the european space agency and the member states, drawing lessons from the initial phase and presenting an action plan for the global monitoring for environment and security (gms) initiative. for the launch of the next deployment phase, the commission proposes the gradual establishment of a formal coordination structure which could draw on the experience of galileo. the envisat satellite is admired by everyone for its ability to monitor the environment and is a wonderful example of earth observation, for which we are at the forefront of development. the establishment of this structure for gms will be preceded by a lighter and interim solution, in accordance with the provisions of the european community/space agency framework agreement. i would like to remind you of the importance of parliament's opinion in order to conclude this agreement between the european community and asean. the commission is also developing a policy on access to space and launchers, for which the installation of the soyuz launcher at the guyanese space centre is a concrete example of strategic collaboration between russia and europe. the final decision on this programme is expected to be taken at the european space agency council on 4 february. the commission suggests in the white paper that the union should provide for the maintenance of launch facilities and the financing of work and research to develop a future space transport system. finally, in the white paper, the commission suggests that activities related to the international space station should be continued, as this would improve europeans' experience of extended stays in space. in this connection, i was pleased to hear mr savary's suggestion, which of course concerned the whole of europe and proposed that astronauts from the future acceding states should be associated. the international station can also be seen as an indispensable intermediate step before embarking on future exploration of the solar system. you referred to president bush's statement. this calls for a thorough analysis. it has, of course, implications for us, given the investments made by the european side, particularly in keeping the international space station accessible to european astronauts. so we should not sell the whole process without having the assurance that this process, in which we are strongly committed, will be maintained. you also know that -- and this brings up a thought -- the european satellite that observes mars has had some remarkable results, because you've seen these pictures that show the possibility of ice on the moon. it was european technology that showed this, although, unfortunately, the beagle did not give the same result. on the other hand, spectral analysis of mars is a european technology of the highest order, of which we can be proud. finally, from this, there is also the idea of seeing how we envisage manned flights, so that we do not remain outside the race towards these objectives. the commission, in collaboration with esa, will set up in 2004 a group of experts which should enable the european union to define its position on manned flights. i have summarized the main points. i am very pleased to conclude by telling you that the commission is including space and space research in its reflection on the future financial perspectives which are at the heart of the commission's debate and which parliament will, i think, take the lead on 10 february. we shall give the first outline of the financial perspective. and in the context of the financial perspective, it is clear that research and innovation programmes must have increased resources, inter alia to support a space policy which is crucial for technological progress and europe's place in the world.
- thank you, lieutenant. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see the minutes. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0004/2004) to the commission on the clothing sector.
the commission shares the concerns about this issue and is taking the necessary steps to respond to them. in view of these major challenges in the textile and clothing sector which will persist in the years ahead - and in particular, as you have stressed, the impact of the elimination of import quotas on 1 january 2005 - the commission has reviewed its policies and instruments with a view to identifying measures or lines of action which could strengthen the competitiveness of the textile and clothing sector. these are reflected in the communication you have highlighted, the communication on the future of the textile and clothing sector adopted by the commission on 29 october 2003 and welcomed at a council meeting on competitiveness on 27 november 2003. as you know, the union's strategy for international trade and for doha aims at reciprocity for textiles and clothing. together, these policies and measures aim to provide industry and those working in the sector with a clear, predictable and coherent framework, allowing for easy planning of strategies and investments in the medium and long term. the commission welcomes the support for these initiatives and the ideas contained in the resolution on the future of the textile sector which parliament will shortly adopt. the commission will examine carefully the new ideas mentioned in the text of the resolution. some of the recommendations contained in the communication could be followed up by concrete proposals in a relatively short time. the commission has also taken the initiative of developing a new approach to the problem of the environment. in order to assist the commission in these investigations and in the follow-up of these issues, the commission will set up a high-level group with the task of formulating recommendations aimed at improving the conditions of competitiveness. the aim of this high-level group is to contribute to the process of implementing industrial and trade policies in the textile and clothing sector of the enlarged union. the group will participate in the monitoring of economic development of the sector at regular intervals, carried out by the commission services. it will provide reports and recommendations to the commission and other decision-makers on the proposed initiative, in order to facilitate the adjustment of the sector to the different challenges it faces. these reports should include recommendations on key issues affecting competition in the sector. this high-level group will be composed of commissioners, ministers, business leaders, and ceos or presidents of federations linked to the textile and clothing sector. it will deal with the following themes: innovation, research and development. in this respect, i was pleased that you emphasised the role of research and development. indeed, i recently had the opportunity to visit a textile company which has made a considerable effort in research and innovation and which has become competitive in the chinese market, whereas it was in a difficult situation a few years ago. with a much more efficient dye patent and with increased productivity management mechanisms, it has become competitive in a very specific "niche". in fact, the services say that exports to china increase when you have these new industrial capacities. so it is clear that there is a future when we develop this research and innovation in a field where we have know-how. another theme is the issue of intellectual property. mr berenguer fuster is quite right when he says that this question must of course be at the heart of our thinking at international level, because all these new processes can be fragile if we do not protect them with strong patents. research and development is certainly an important factor. we are also considering setting up a technological platform for the textile sector, with the main players. the other themes are education and training, regional policy. in this connection, mrs bastos, you have stressed the problem of the structural funds. my colleague mr barnier, when he proposes the new mechanisms for the structural funds, says very clearly that they will have to contribute, even more than in the past, to the growth process, the so-called lisbon process. research and innovation, training in sectors such as textiles, will be more prominent and stronger subjects in the next structural funds, if the regions wish it, of course. international industrial cooperation, labelling and other trade-related issues can all have an effect on the impact. this high-level group will start in february 2004, i.e. practically tomorrow, addressing in particular the objectives and expected results, and will be followed by at least two plenary sessions before july 2004. the commission will present a first report on the work of the group to the council in july 2004. i think that the problem is being taken into account. the european institutions and the member states will be kept informed of the work of the group and the implementation of the conclusions. the commission is aware of the need to move fast, since the aim is to implement all this before the end of 2004. by the end of february, a scoreboard will be drawn up by the commission, indicating the various proposals, measures and actions in trade matters resulting from the communication, and giving a timetable for their implementation. this scoreboard will be shared with parliament and the member states. you also raised the question of the budget to be used for the implementation of the measures proposed in the commission's communication. we intend to use existing community programmes and investments to implement the concrete measures adopted, as we need to move quickly. each specific measure will be implemented by the appropriate commission services responsible for the field concerned and using its own budget. i can tell you that in the field of research, in the calls for proposals of the framework programme, there is potential for interesting projects, and i believe that this is also true in other sectors. i think i have shown the commission and parliament's interest in this strategic sector of our economy.
- thank you very much, inspector. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see the minutes. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. the agenda for the next meeting: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
- mr president, we are pleased that this report comes at the very time when kofi annan is speaking to us in the next few hours. i think it is important to state in the report before us the importance and the role we want to see attached to the united nations, which everyone is now calling for an intervention, an initiative, an active role in iraq - whereas for months this role has been blocked by two parties who were in some way very afraid of the role of the un and who thought that it might not be as effective as it should be - so that the exit from iraq does not turn into a nightmare, as it sometimes has been in the past. we are particularly pleased that the report mentions an important initiative which could be led by the union. i am referring to the idea that within the united nations - whose difficulties and burdens we have seen when, last year, a person from a country such as libya, which is certainly not at the forefront of human rights, was appointed as head of the commission on human rights - the democracies of the un countries can come together and find each other, and that they can devise common actions in the field of promoting democracy. this is an initiative in which the european union could play an important role in the united nations. at least that is what the italian radicals are advocating. they urge commissioner patten to urge the member states that, already at the next meeting of the commission on human rights in geneva, there can be a first, symbolic and concrete meeting of the community of democracies.
we must give strength and value to the un, we must give strength and value to the european union, a strength which should derive from its capacity to be a reference point for political, moral, ethical, economic and social practice. the un and the european union have risen from the ashes of the destruction of world war ii. the european union and the united nations should therefore be based on the rejection of war and the eradication of poverty. commissioner patten is right: not just peace, but peace with justice. unfortunately, however, peace and justice are not so central. the european constitution speaks of promoting peace, but does not take the rejection of war and the negotiated settlement of conflicts as central. in recent years the un has been degraded, if not only by the military policy of a fundamentalist president, the president of a country which still practices the death penalty in many of its states and rejects international bodies, not least the international criminal court. war has become legitimate again, militarism is permeating minds and hearts. i do not underestimate the important commitment of mr laschet and all the members of the committee on foreign affairs. e a clear message, alongside that of the sakharov prize to kofi annan, to give value and a role to the european union and the united nations; but it is essential that security for all, poverty reduction, justice and peace are real practices and not just empty claims. the un and the eu, together with other countries, must restore confidence and, above all, respect for international law.
mr president, i must thank mr laschet for this report, which is very inspired and has great prospects, but we must also build the intermediate path between the realisation of the prospects and the present situation. first of all, i have to say that i had a great experience of working with the united nations when i had contact with its deputy secretary-general for a report i made to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly on the protection of children's rights. i think that mr laschet's proposal represents the first stage of a reform which the un must undertake. after the logic of yalta, the logic of the blocs, has been overcome, we must affirm the growing multilateralism. we must promote new nations to world responsibility, without removing the instruments of memory for those who have promoted world peace; and the right of veto is one of those memory tools. the security council must be enlarged, and new permanent members without veto rights must be considered: the european union, australia, argentina, brazil, egypt, germany, japan, india, italy and south africa could be among these. the number of elected members of the security council must also be increased, and then the agencies must be reformed to make them more operational on the ground; the promotion of human rights and the affirmation of the principles of democracy must be accelerated. we must imagine that the united nations is aimed at the protection of persons, since the concept of 'nation' is invoked, not the concept of state, and the concept of nation presupposes the protection of the person. it is urgent to start this process of defending the individual because today terrorism is rampant: today it is al-qaeda and bin laden, tomorrow it could be something else. certainly a reformed nato could be the international police force the un might need. division, exclusion, they create war. the european union is a political union, but the philosophical concept of the union promotes important goals of peace.
- we now proceed to the vote.
- the vote is closed. references to committees - communication of common positions by the council - forwarding of texts adopted at this part-session - date and place of next part-session: see minutes
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1 p.m.)
- mr secretary-general, on behalf of the italian radical members of parliament, i would first of all like to join in the tribute paid to the memory of sergio vieira de mello and all those who perished with him. mr secretary-general, we welcome your call for a europe more open to the immigration of men and women who are leaving their countries and leaving poverty and very often dictatorship. we need to address the underlying reasons why they leave their homeland. in this respect, we greatly appreciated that a few months ago you stated a simple yet revolutionary truth. "democracy and human rights, although distinct concepts, are closely intertwined. democracy, as a human right in itself, is included in article 21 of the universal declaration of human rights and only functions fully if other rights are respected.' we are wholeheartedly with you, mr secretary-general, that democracy, as a universal value belonging to every human being, is the challenge to be met in the middle east, africa and elsewhere. mr secretary-general, in this connection, before i close, let me raise the issue of the appointment of the united nations high commissioner for human rights. as you know, among the candidates, at the initiative of the italian presidency, there is a european candidate, a member of our parliament. this nomination is supported by the president of the european commission, by personalities belonging to all the institutions of the union as well as by personalities from other countries and regional groupings. this nomination is an expression of europe's commitment to promoting and strengthening human rights, the rule of law and democracy wherever they are violated. mr secretary-general, i hope that your choice will be based on this nomination.
mr president, the purpose of this resolution is to prepare the guidelines for the conference on the revision of the non-proliferation treaty. we have traditionally concluded these debates with a resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter.
mr president, in a few days' time we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the adoption by the european parliament of the draft treaty establishing the european union, drawn up by altiero spinelli and drawn up by him. the conference of presidents invited the political groups to consider how to commemorate both this anniversary and the 25th anniversary of the death of jean monnet, one of the main architects of european integration. i would like to draw your attention, however, to the different nature of the two anniversaries. celebrating the anniversary of the spinelli project is not so much a tribute to altiero spinelli as it is a tribute to the foresight of the european parliament which, 20 years ago, drew up and proposed the first constitutional treaty, and which it is fitting to underline today as our renewed commitment to ensuring that europe is actually and finally given a constitution. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to refer back to what mr napolitano said, and frankly i think that very little is clear from his answer. but we need more than that. it is not a question of commemorating altiero spinelli, but of seizing the opportunity of an important, historic date, which requires a special meeting and not a commemoration among many. it would also be an opportunity to take a much longer, much more important step. let the european parliament do what it did in its time with spinelli: the european parliament, in its capacity as the european parliament, has been the guardian of the treaties, and the european parliament has been the guardian of the treaties. this is what i ask of you, mr president: the european parliament, twenty years later, should have the courage to take the same initiatives. i ask you and the chairmen of the political groups, especially those who are committed to the european idea. i hope they're true to their tradition.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, when we talk about support for the development of the business sector in cooperation policies with third countries, particularly developing countries, it is perhaps useful to recall what the peruvian economist hernando de soto says in his book the mystery of capital: one of the main obstacles to economic development, the missing ingredient, in countries that are actually said to have considerable wealth, is the absence of clearly defined property rights, and therefore protected with the certainty that is necessary to attribute to these rights a real economic value. it is therefore clear that the most valuable contribution that can come from the european institutions - and i would say, in general, the most important contribution of the developed countries - is to guarantee legal infrastructures that safeguard legal certainty, to support and accompany processes towards democratization and the recognition of the principles of the rule of law. the commission document only mentions this issue, which i consider to be central, and the report of the committee on development, unfortunately, omits this reference and focuses on the dramatic consequences of the policies promoted by the international monetary fund or the world bank. i do not think it is correct, even in practice, to blame the imf and the world bank for certain failures; i am thinking of the case of argentina, where it is becoming increasingly clear that the failure, the default even of the state itself, is attributable not to the imf or the world bank but to the level of corruption, to the level of statism present in that economy. it is said that one does not want to make ideology, but i fear that in reality one does. it's good to consider all the options; but i believe that the political option we have to offer is that of privatising companies to seek efficiency, investment. we want services to reach the population, and to reach them in quantity and quality to meet needs that are not being met today. i believe that asking corrupt and inefficient public companies to provide this service is wrong. the privatisation option - as in europe, so in the developing countries - is the politically desirable option.
i thank you, commissioner, for the almost timely illustration of the situation. my comments are unfortunately based on press reports, which - at least in italy - raise considerable concerns, since dead specimens of the peregrine falcon and the migratory duck, two species which are very resistant in the wild, have been found. i would like to make two very simple and pointed remarks. the first concerns the health aspect. we are not caught completely unprepared by the h5n1 strain, because it was already identified in 1997, it re-emerged as h7n1 between 1999 and 2001; now, as a strain in constant transformation, we ask the commission what action it intends to take on prevention, because - as some colleagues have rightly said before - we are always pursuing the emergency. some member states are equipping themselves with their own national laboratories, but it would be necessary for the european centre for communicable diseases to set up a coordination group of national situations where the health situation is being monitored. the second aspect concerns the commission's activities. as announced by commissioner lamy, there is a very serious option in the negotiations for the re-entry of the wto to extend the eba countries. what guarantees are there for our consumers in the face of the globalisation of markets? does the commission not think that a discussion on the relationship between globalisation and health problems should be included in the wto?
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr bowis on the professionalism, the determination and the timeliness with which he has completed this important report. i also congratulate the rapporteur on the efforts he has made in the negotiations with the council to reach an agreement at first reading. i believe it is of the utmost importance that the centre should be operational as soon as possible, in order to ensure that health surveillance and early warning system which the union must have in order to adequately meet the challenges posed by the forthcoming enlargement and by a globalised world, which is increasingly vulnerable to the spread of diseases that are still unknown to us: sars in 2003 and the very recent avian flu are concrete examples of this. i therefore consider that 1 january 2005 is the deadline for the launch of the centre. another point i would like to stress is the necessary task of updating and training all the health personnel in the countries of the union, which must be taken over by the centre. with the entry of ten new countries, the union will have to aim to provide all health systems with the tools, means and knowledge to generate effective synergy between all the member states and thus ensure the coherence of union action that the centre aims to achieve. i conclude by recalling that the ability to respond adequately to an international health threat depends to a large extent on the early adoption of preparatory plans for rapid, coordinated action at european level. the centre will have to provide this indispensable service.
in my vision, mr president, mr marco pannella was condemned to go on a hunger strike, that is, he was condemned to eat, eat and get fatter and fatter. and then mr marco pannella said to me: please, fatuzzo, wake up! for you this is a dream, you are dreaming, but for me it is a nightmare! i could not therefore not vote in favour of the report in defence of mr marco pannella.
we are talking, mr president, about the joint parliamentary assembly of the acp states, which, as we know, includes the bahamas. in 1965, i was in nassau, the capital of the bahamas; paradise island, a fabled place for tourists in the bahamas. i was a little younger than i am today; i met a young bahamian man on the sea and he said: i hear you're going to be a member of the european parliament and i'm going to be president of the joint parliamentary association. other 'then be concerned,' i said, 'think of the pensioners, including the pensioners of the states you will represent, and remember to set up a committee on social affairs and the environment. other which he did, so i voted for it.
i closed my eyes for a moment yesterday, mr president, thinking about how i should explain the vote in favour of the bowis report on disease prevention and control. i closed my eyes and saw that our colleague john bowis had become, in the next parliament, the european union's commissioner for health and that with his usual commitment and professional ability he had managed to secure a large financial and organisational commitment to prevent a great many diseases of the citizens of the union, thus reducing health expenditure throughout europe and disability pensions, without the need to reduce the pension budget and to harm pensioners. and so, with the hope that this will really happen, i voted in favour of your report.
mr president, we did not vote on this motion for a resolution because we found no evidence of serious discrimination in the slovenian legislation on compensation, legislation which penalizes exiles and their heirs for the very serious events which took place in those lands after the war. today, 10 february, is the second time that remembrance day is being celebrated in our country. i would also like to mention, on behalf of my colleague mr gobbo, the exodus of the three hundred and fifty thousand of our compatriots who were driven from their lands, but above all the sacrifice, the tragedy of the more than ten thousand who were thrown - many of them still alive - into the caves and ditches of those lands: a tragedy that concerns the istrian, julian-dalmatia and fiumano peoples and that is still alive in the flesh and suffering of those lands; the european parliament has been the object of a great deal of criticism, and i am sure that the commission will be the object of great criticism. it is another holocaust that reminds us of the tragedies of totalitarianism of the last century.
mr president, mr katiforis is presenting a report on the role and methods of the rating agencies. i closed my eyes and saw mr giorgos katiforis running, running, running through the mud. "where are you going?" i asked. it says: i'm running to get my report in before the parmalat crash in italy. fatuzzo, you who know mennea, tell him to get the rating report for him, because he runs faster than me, being an olympian from moscow, and then he will get to present it and get it approved before the crack of the parmalat is discovered. unfortunately, that was a dream and it didn't come true. mr katiforis was unable to present and get his report approved before the sad event of the parmalat bond crash.
many pensioners who listened to me in milan last saturday, knowing that i had to give my vote and told them that i would give a favourable vote on the activities of public services in developing countries, recommended that i should take account of the opportunity, in the interventions of the european union in developing countries on matters relating to public services, to see to it that the pension systems of those countries are improved, since it is not possible to give more to pensioners in italy and in europe, and in particular to work so that widows receive 100 per cent of the pension of the deceased spouse and all those who work 120 per cent of their last salary.
mr president, mr garot's report is credible and realistic and therefore positive, even if not all the data it contains are relevant to the different types of agriculture we have in the union. for example, the 7% increase in income and the 15.7% decrease in the number of farms do not correspond to mountain farming, where the figures are, unfortunately, very different: only 1% of the income increases, but over 25% of the businesses that are abandoned. i would like to remind you that mountain farming is not a secondary feature of the european agricultural complex: the european union has a long tradition of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe, and the european union has a long tradition of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe. the abandonment of the mountain has not only economic repercussions, but also, as we know, social and environmental ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected. what remedies are available? to recognise fixed and adequate compensatory allowances for the mountain farmer who accepts the commitment of multi-functionality; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life in the mountains, and has also proposed a specific but comprehensive policy for the mountains, which would guarantee aid to the most disadvantaged areas of the country, in order to improve the general quality of life, and not just the economic standard of living, of those who choose to live there. the strong push towards rural development expressed by the recent cap reform gives some assurance, but it is not enough. the specific nature of the mountain must be explicitly recognized in the treaties and in structural measures, and we must also have the courage to overcome the constraints of state aid as far as possible but with conviction.
mr president, on the economic front i can only congratulate mr garot on his detailed and precise report. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective, which includes a number of themes and requests that we have made to the commission during the current legislature: for example, the establishment of supply chain contracts to raise the quality level, if necessary, but still to ensure the quality of the agricultural world; access to the european market for products from third countries subject to the same standards as european products; a crisis management system. in addition, it is necessary to reflect on the fact that the fall in agricultural prices has in fact had no effect on consumption. however, what i have said is purely theoretical, because - and all my colleagues in the committee on agriculture know my position on the proposal for a mid-term review - i believe that we have assumed a very great responsibility, the consequences of which will only be analysed in a few years' time, since the formula chosen for regulating markets and ensuring price stability - direct, fixed and uncoupled support for production - will lead to a progressive dismantling of the agricultural sector. we have made choices in a more foreign policy perspective than in cancun. we have seen the results in cancún and we have seen the resumption of negotiations in geneva. i believe, moreover, that some of the figures in the garot report - the 7% increase in agricultural prices from 1995 to 2002 - refer to historical prices and do not take account, among other things, of the inflationary figure which has a strong impact on agricultural prices. the overall situation of agriculture in the european union in 2011 is, in my view, much, much more delicate and with much more complex rules than what mr garot is presenting.
i thank president prodi for presenting this programme, which can be considered important, certainly different from the rumors that have circulated before. of course, we cannot say that it was a great success to have set the same reference number of 1.24 as we had before. i thank the president of the commission, however, because in this case he has reached an agreement - albeit a relative one - although i cannot help being concerned, as a young vice-president of the committee on budgets, and expressing my fears for agriculture, for culture, for ten projects, for technology, for research, for universities and for all those programmes which we have so enthusiastically launched and announced. i believe that, in view of the forthcoming enlargement to the east, it cannot be said - and especially not by the council - that this is a great agreement; it can simply be described as a bearish agreement. you see, i would like - and i think a young man like myself can be associated with my colleagues colom i naval, whom i thank for his contribution, terry wynn, but also the president of the commission himself - to recall the words that a great man, ignatius of loyola, founder of the jesuits, once said: i fear the day when they will no longer fight me. i believe that we must all fight in the same spirit to see a europe that is certainly stronger, but with greater development and with the possibility of having more resources for our projects.
mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal - even if it is very small, and i agree with those who have stressed this - not to go below what has been agreed, which is already a minimum minimum in relation to a europe which has grown, which will grow further and which has the right ambition to extend the scope of its political action beyond institutional boundaries to embrace a wider horizon. from this point of view, it is undoubtedly important to support such an approach. but, as others have pointed out, at the point where the european debate is now - so threatened by the tendency to want to do more and more, to want to 'marry the dry figs', as they say in italy - the commission should have gone a step further. the commission and its sapir report have shown us how much we really need to change our investment and budgetary priorities in order to be competitive and to give europe the hopes and objectives to which president prodi referred. but the sapir report has been kept in a drawer because it scares a lot of people, it scares a lot of governments, that they don't want to hear about some issues. well, when the commission has made a habit of touching the sensitive threads, it has done so with the stability pact. for example, there is this agreement which, while we are discussing the cap, we have until 2013 a commitment not to touch, which seems to be written in marble. well, that was supposed to be part of today's communication.
mr president of the commission, it is difficult not to share the scenario you have presented to us today. i have two doubts, which i'm sure you'll be able to resolve: firstly, i come from a long militancy in a party which should surely remind you of something, during which i was taught that too much realism in politics often means the beginning of a defeat. it seems to me that your request to stop the transfer of gdp at 1.24, i.e. at the present rate, which is still for 12 countries, when we are now 25 and will probably grow, is a position which lacks not only ambition but also courage, and this is on the assumption that there are two assessments: firstly, we have approved a public works intervention programme, the 'quick start' programme, which should relaunch the idea of europe and a single market, in which we need the involvement of the member states and resources, so i find the position of the six states which have asked for a reduction in the transfer very difficult. secondly, in any negotiation, to take a position knowing that some of the states are starting from the reference to 1%, seems to me to be a rather complex negotiating phase from a tactical point of view. the second doubt is about timing. the current financial situation is scheduled to end in 2006; the commission must submit a proposal by july 2005 and agreement must be reached by may 2006. so, what's the reason for the urgency? why are we speeding up in the face of a parliament whose mandate is about to expire? as mr wynn rightly pointed out, our parliament has a very important role to play, but it will be played by the parliament which will be elected on 13 june.
- mr president, there are strange things happening in the way we handle our issues. in december i asked a question about croatia. it was referred back from the january part-session to this part-session. i had a good faith belief that she had been sent back because mr verheugen should have been with us at that session and because other colleagues had also asked questions about croatia's accession. it's not! in addition, not only do i find my question at the end of the list and not at the top, which would have been logical since it was withdrawn in january, but i also know that it will not be possible to get an answer in the sitting. and i obviously couldn't ask another question for the month of february. i would like the services to record this fact and to put it in the minutes of this sitting, because i think that is really not very correct. there are many very shady things going on around the accession process of croatia. there are countries blocking this process, and i will name them: great britain and the netherlands. there is an urgent need for a debate to clarify all this.
commission. mr president, the european parliament scheduled this declaration from the commission only a few days ago when the future of thyssen krupp's ast terni plant was at stake. the decision to close magnetic steel production would put 450 jobs directly and larger numbers indirectly at risk. further job losses in the region already affected in the past would be a most unwelcome blow. it would be particularly unfortunate, in view of the long tradition of steel making in this region, the quality of the product produced at terni and the skill levels of the workforce involved. therefore it is with some relief that i heard reports today of an announcement by the italian minister of productive activities, mr marzano, that the deadline of the decision on the future of the ast plant has been postponed to a date yet to be defined. it is precisely because of concerns such as these, regarding the social consequences of corporate restructuring, that the commission has sought to promote a response at community level to the issue of how corporate restructuring is managed. we sought, with the active involvement of the social partners, to develop and promote issues that seem relevant in the present case, investing in people on a permanent basis, developing employability through training and retraining, seeking alternatives to closures and redundancies, redeploying, wherever possible, workers affected by restructuring operations and anticipating market and technological developments. i should like to remind you that two years ago the commission launched a consultation with the social partners, particularly on this issue of restructuring, because unfortunately, there were many problems in many different member states. the commission presented a report with some proposals. we have the response of the social partners in october and we believe that through dialogue and agreed measures, particularly on issues to which i have already referred, everything that supports employability, the social partners can play an important role. it is my sincere hope that in the window of opportunity that now appears to have opened all such possibilities will be given full consideration to see what contribution they can make to alleviating the crisis faced by the terni plant.
mr president, commissioner, europe cannot remain silent in the face of what is happening in one of the most important steel sites in the union: without prior notice, the thyssen krupp group decided to suspend the production of magnetic steel at its terni steelworks. this is an unjustified choice and a betrayal of an agreement signed in 1994 when the company was privatised. as you have mentioned, madam commissioner, the german company is preparing to lay off hundreds of workers, because it prefers to protect other european sites and invest outside the union, in south korea. thanks to the intervention of the italian government - you mentioned, commissioner, the intervention of the minister for productive activities, mr marzano - and the extraordinary mobilisation of all the local institutions, citizens, political parties and workers, thyssen krupp has decided to postpone the closure decision. the european parliament and the commission cannot, however, fail to raise their voices to help resolve a crisis which is not, mr president, commissioner, an italian problem, but one which affects the whole of europe. that is why we ask that the commission, when presenting the third report on economic and social cohesion on 18 february, clearly state its proposals for protecting the industrial sector, and in particular the steel sector, in the context of the new cohesion policy which will start on 1 january 2007. i am also convinced that the commission's action in the arms race with the united states on steel production market shares must also be supported. i would like to reiterate that the problem is not only italy's, nor is it a purely contingent matter, but that it is the general problem of steel in europe. the crisis does not affect just one company, but many, and i think the commission is paying the utmost attention to its relationship with the united states. we cannot, in fact, treat with carelessness and superficiality such a delicate subject, on which the fate of thousands and thousands of jobs and, consequently, of thousands and thousands of families is at stake. as regards the italian case of terni, i believe that the commission should take action on certain anomalies. today, the terni steelworks, contrary to the decision of the merger control commission in december 1994, are the exclusive property of thyssen krupp, and this is a clear example of a merger: the group is now the only producer in europe of grain-oriented magnetic steel. does the commission not consider that there are potential distortions of competition? moreover, thyssen krupp's italian operations have earned it community aid, since the area of terni, where the steelworks are located, is an industrial decline zone, which falls under objective 2. does the commission not therefore consider that it is necessary to verify whether community aid has been used correctly by thyssen krupp? does the commission not consider that it is necessary to examine whether thyssen krupp has received additional state aid in breach of the competition rules? the investments in south korea, announced yesterday, are causing us concern: i would not like european funds and any funds provided by the german government to be used not to grow the european economy or to create jobs and development in europe, but to be used in south korea, for the exclusive interest of a company which - i repeat - has not kept the agreements signed at the time of privatisation with the italian side. thousands of workers are now waiting for the commission to take action to ensure that eu rules are respected. i had the opportunity to listen to president prodi and commissioner monti a few days ago and i can see in your speech, madam commissioner, the will to go further, to protect the interests of workers, to solve a problem which, i repeat, is not a question of a territorial reality, of italy. i am sure that the president of the commission, after hearing the leaders of thyssen krupp, will take decisive action, as i hope the commission as a whole will do. the president of the commission and all the commissioners should continue on the path they have taken: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them.
mr president, for those of us who had the good fortune, like myself and other colleagues, to take part in the strike and demonstration in terni on friday 6 february, the deeper content of this struggle was very clear: the european union is a community of citizens, a city and a region, united and determined to reject not only a blow to their productive apparatus and their professional heritage, but above all an insult to their dignity. with so many years of union experience behind me, i had rarely felt such tension and pride. the announcement by the thyssen krupp group of the closure of the magnetic department of ast entails the elimination of 900 highly qualified jobs and the consequent alteration of the internal balance at the terno steelworks, and thereby the immediate threat to its structures, to production synergies, to the overall employment prospects: the total number of employees is about 4 500, including the industrial enterprises. but, i repeat, it is also a slap in the face to the regional local government which has been and is still working effectively, also through the structural funds, to create the most favourable production environment for the firm and its investments: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. everything was fine until yesterday; in september 2003, production of non-oriented wheat for electric motors was discontinued. on that occasion, and again in november, the set of programmes designed to consolidate terni as a magnetic pole of excellence was solemnly reaffirmed. but in late january, after just two months, the upside: the production of the processed wheat used for the processors is also closed, and the closure of the plant is announced, with some very heavy internal consequences: the threat to the integrity of the site, which, with its different productions, allows the balancing of market variations, the dispersion of strategic functions such as the commercial one, but also with important external effects, italian but european more generally. magnetite, produced only in terni, is the only special steel strategically important for the energy sector. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. the news from the meeting held today at palazzo chigi, however, gives reason to the mobilization of the workers and the city and their ability to expand the area of alliances and solidarity. on february 18th, he can finally start a real negotiation, without guns pointed at the union's head. the deadline of 27 february is skipped, the 80 expiring contracts that thyssen krupp wanted to cancel are renewed: the sign that the multinational felt isolated. however, in the face of this preliminary result, the pressure must be maintained and the attention of all the institutions must be kept on. this case, which is a true example of the need for new industrial relations systems and more advanced forms of linking public investment with business strategy, will be the subject of a resolution by parliament on thursday. we are fighting to send a clear message to the court that the case should be resolved in a positive way: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, in 1950 robert schuman launched the idea of a high authority for coal and steel open to all states, thus creating the conditions for a complex and difficult process of european unification, of which we are witnessing the most recent developments. the importance of steel in the european context was already clear. it is not surprising, therefore, that the terni case is very much a part of the debate in this parliament and that opinions on it are largely independent of political guidelines. today the european steel industry is suffering from the decision of the united states, which has imposed duties on steel imports mainly from the european union. the crisis in italy is relevant because it also affects other steel poles, such as the genoa-cornigliano steelworks. in this context, the declaration by thyssen krupp, the owner of the ternano steelworks, to invest in south korea in order to produce steel in asia is of primary importance and raises a number of questions. as is well known, the terni factory was sold in 1994 as part of a privatisation process promoted by iri, with the guarantee of keeping the activities in italy and safeguarding jobs. it is not a company in crisis but a state-of-the-art production facility used to make sheet metal for electronic transformers; furthermore, there are no other factories of the same type in italy. the technology developed at terni, the studies and research carried out in recent years have reached an excellent level. the loss of skills and know-how is the exact opposite of the knowledge economy that president prodi recently spoke about in this very parliament. it is no coincidence that, alongside the workers, managers, cadres, researchers and local politicians have also taken a stand in defence of production and studies related to it. the number of workers involved in the likely redundancies is about 900, not including the effects of the induction. we cannot ignore the fact that the german multinational received funds and tax concessions from the european union when it decided to buy the terni factory. i also wonder what it means, on the world stage, to move production to korea, what are the trade union rights and the technologies of workers employed in southeast asia and how they are respected. at a meeting last december, some european union manufacturers in the footwear and textile sectors made serious demands to this effect to the delegation from china, which is becoming the world's factory. the responses were very evasive and we have no way of thinking that anywhere else on the continent - except japan - the situation is better. especially in a market economy based on competition, rules must... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, 900 jobs lost may be just statistics, but they are lives of real people. in terni, the factory is the beating heart of the city's urban fabric. 900 jobs: stories of young and old workers. the steelworks in terni are the history and pride of the town, they are the memories of the bombings suffered in the second world war. the announcement by the management of thyssen krupp that the magnetic steel plant was to be closed saw the whole town - mr sacconi said - take to the streets with the workers. terni is not an isolated operation: in europe arcelor, lucchini and thyssen are preparing to reduce production; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. massive divestments and the relocation of valuable production to non-european countries are in fact dismantling european production capacity. the community's considerable financial resources over the past decades have been used to dismantle the state-owned steel industry. the subsidies granted to private entrepreneurs, such as riva, lucchini, falk and certain foreign groups, were used to modernise the production capacities and specialisations of the italian steel industry in accordance with the logic of profit. the european social fund and the structural funds have financed restructuring and retraining of staff and have also enabled a generational renewal of the workforce in the sector. in italy today the average age of steelworkers is 30 years old. i believe that in the european union the lack of a coordinated plan to revive the steel industry has contributed to the relocation of individual plants in the various countries - even to the 'avant-garde' - to pursue industrial plans of individual entrepreneurs. the thyssen plant in terni, which is suffering heavy losses in the magnetic steel sector to the benefit of the russian duferco, is contracting production and preparing to move its operations to mexico, korea, china and india. there is no sign of innovation, new research, or a challenge to competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not undermined by the economic crisis. despite the drastic reduction in employment in italy in the sector, from 100 000 units in the 1980s to 40 000 units today, the steel sector maintains a very good position in the market, because it is the second largest european producer. but to maintain this, industrial choices by the italian government - which seem to be lacking - and a clear commitment to action at european level are needed. steel and electricity are economic indicators of absolute excellence in a country, an economic driver of development. it is therefore essential that the european union introduce systems to reduce pollutants and pursue environmental impact, which are priorities if the objectives of the kyoto protocol are to be achieved. on this basis a new steel industry can be revived. we must find solutions in the field of industrial policy to protect quality production, environmental and working conditions in the steel industry. in this sense, in order to counter threats to employment and the progressive social impoverishment, the commission must commit itself to a revision of the structural funds regulation. in future, the granting of such aid must be based on the requirement that the investment must be geographically limited for at least 10 years, with the explicit withdrawal of subsidies in the event of relocation of production. i also believe that a review of directive 98/59 on the protection of collective redundancies should be launched, which would strengthen the protection of employment by providing not only for procedures for informing workers' representatives but also for the social partners to commit themselves to opening useful and binding negotiations to prevent redundancies or production cuts that are detrimental to employment. the jobs at the terni steelworks must be safeguarded, as must other italian and european sites, and for this reason i believe that a dialogue is necessary between the governments of the member states concerned, the social partners and, in this specific case, thyssen krupp, in order to re-develop a new industrial plan for the relaunch of the magnetic and theinox sector at european level.
mr president, once again italy is in danger of being used as a wasteland. the case of thyssen krupp is the usual case of a multinational which grew thanks to the work of hundreds of italian workers and to the large sums of money made available by the italian state and the european union, and which then decided to close down, in this case in terni, in umbria, risking bringing 900 workers and their families to their knees and also wasting a great deal of professional expertise. as other colleagues have said, the closure was a surprise: no advance notice to the workers, local and national authorities and, above all, no justification, because today the closure seems to be dictated more by questionable choices of company strategy than by concrete technical reasons, since in italy production costs are lower, the quality is higher, the professionalism of the workers is undisputed: for 120 years, they've been working steel in terni. i wonder if it is acceptable that thyssen krupp insists on closing down after having taken from that territory, from those people, everything possible: what about the professionalism, the resources, even the hopes for the future? while we are convinced that large companies multinationals are certainly a source of employment and development for the whole of europe, some considerations need to be made: it is no secret, and no cause for scandal, that certain aspects of this european capitalism are not convincing at all: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the work of the european parliament in this area. meanwhile, manufacturing is already being moved to india, with an eye to china, where labour costs are paltry and labour and environmental standards are non-existent. moreover, as has already been pointed out by other colleagues, these multinationals often take advantage of privatisations, which unfortunately often result in sales, in order to buy our family jewels at a lower price, as is the case with thyssen krupp in terni. but beyond the polemics, what do we ask of the european commission? firstly, immediate action, as far as it is in its power, to safeguard the steel industry in terni and to avert the danger of the closure of thyssen krupp's plants; secondly, a commitment to verify the effective application of european legislation to protect workers' rights; thirdly, a further commitment to make the disbursement of community funds conditional on employment guarantee agreements and on precise conditions and limits on relocations. we also expect a firm commitment to a strategy for the development of the steel industry throughout europe. finally, should thyssen krupp insist on its decision to close the plant, we ask the commission to verify whether all the competition rules are respected, in particular with regard to any abuse of a dominant position. in conclusion, mr president, while we are pleased with the first positive steps taken today by the italian government, which are also the result of a cross-cutting and convinced mobilization, we think that there is all the more reason not to let our guard down. we believe in the free market, but we also believe that there is no free market without democracy and, above all, without respect for workers and nations.
mr president, commissioner, i think it is important to establish whether the thyssen krupp case in terni was illegal under community law. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the united kingdom, which is a very important area for the community, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the united kingdom. i believe that this is the task of the european institutions, but i also believe that the task must stop here. i do not think it is the task of the european commission, the european institutions or the italian government to make decisions on the relocation of companies operating in europe. the possibility of moving production to india, china or south america has caused outrage. personally, i think this is part of the rules of the game that for many years some countries of the european union, primarily italy, have exploited: the eu has a long tradition of providing its own assets, such as its labour supply, to the international economy. this is not to be disrespectful to the 450 employees of thyssen krupp in terni who are in danger of losing their jobs; it means also remembering the hundreds, maybe thousands, of people who may find work in china and india. it also means assuming - and i am referring to terni, which has already absorbed 10 000 surplus units in the steel industry in recent years - that in italy and in europe, in the areas of excellence, we can and should produce more to export to european and international markets. in conclusion, mr president, i would remind you that italy and europe need the confidence of investors to invest in terni, as elsewhere. to think that the political world can syndicate the choices of investors to this extent would not be a good service, nor would it ultimately benefit employment.
- the next item is the annual debate on the progress made towards establishing an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union (articles 2 and 39 of the treaty on european union) - 2003, on the basis of the oral question to the council (b5-0005/2004) and the oral question to the commission (b5-0006/2004) from the committee on civil liberties and rights and the committee on justice and home affairs. i would remind you that the vote on the motions for resolutions which conclude this debate will take place in the march ii part-session.
council. mr president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss the work of the justice and home affairs council in 2003. i would particularly like to thank mr ribeiro e castro for compiling the question on which i will base my comments. i want firstly to pay tribute to the work of the greek and italian presidencies in advancing the justice and home affairs agenda during 2003. significant progress was made on a whole range of jha issues, including legislative measures and operational cooperation in compliance with the tampere european council conclusions and the mandate from subsequent european councils. the measure of that progress can be seen in the fact that during that period the council adopted nine regulations, five directives, three framework decisions, two conventions, several agreements with third countries, more than twenty decisions and more than thirty resolutions and conclusions. although the focus of the debate is on progress during 2003, you have framed your questions in the context of the significant events of this year and i will bear this in mind in my response. the irish presidency is very conscious of the significance of this year for the union and also for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. the key objectives of our presidency are to make progress on the amsterdam requirements and to take forward work on the extended tampere programme. we will also continue to promote operational cooperation, particularly in relation to police and customs. turning now to asylum and immigration, i would like to mention some of last year’s achievements. in the context of asylum, the adoption of the dublin ii regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining member state responsibility for examining an asylum application, and the directive on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, were major achievements. progress has also been made on two other key asylum proposals – the procedures directive and the qualifications directive. however, despite the best efforts of the italian and greek presidencies, it was not possible to reach agreement on these proposals. these proposals have been moved forward under successive presidencies and it will now fall to the irish presidency to attempt to resolve the outstanding issues, in keeping with the requirements of the tampere and the amsterdam treaty. we will now make every effort to get agreement on these texts within the timescale specified by the amsterdam treaty. 2003 also saw the adoption of the first legal instruments in the area of legal immigration – the directive on the right to family reunification and the directive on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents. the council also intends to move forward work on the directives on the condition of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, vocational training and voluntary services and for the purposes of research. in the area of illegal immigration, the council reached agreement on the directive on assistance in the case of transit for the purpose of removal by air and the decision on the organisation of joint flights. on an operational level, various joint projects were carried out at land, sea and air borders, including the establishment of an ad hoc centre for border guard training. the council also adopted a programme of measures to combat illegal immigration across maritime borders. the strengthening of border controls against illegal immigration will continue to be a council priority in 2004. the council intends to continue work on the draft regulation establishing the european agency for management and operational cooperation at external borders, in keeping with the conclusions on this proposal adopted by the justice and home affairs council in november. i hope that this can be agreed during the irish presidency. i would also mention that readmission agreements were concluded by the commission with hong kong and the agreement between the eu and macao was signed. negotiations are ongoing in relation to readmission agreements with morocco, russia and ukraine. the tampere european council made mutual recognition the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters and specified a programme of measures for this purpose. there has been steady progress in the area of judicial cooperation in civil law since then and 2003 was no exception. key measures adopted last year include the legal aid directive and the regulation on parental responsibility. the council also established a general approach on the proposed regulation creating a european enforcement order for uncontested claims. i hope that council and the european parliament can work together effectively to enable this proposal to be adopted in the coming months. discussions will continue within the council framework during 2004 on the proposed rome ii regulations on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, which also comes under the codecision procedure. i also understand that the commission intends to present a proposal for a regulation to establish a european order for payment procedure in the coming weeks. your question also referred to the work of the hague conference on private international law. in recent years, on the basis of negotiating mandates adopted by the council, the community has been able to participate actively in the work of the conference where there are matters under discussion which concern its competence. in april 2003, on foot of a council decision, member states signed the 1996 hague protection of children convention, both on their own behalf and in the interest of the community. the increased engagement of the community with the hague conference is reflected in the fact that the council has authorised the commission to initiate negotiations with the conference on the possible accession of the community to that body. in the area of criminal judicial cooperation, the council made progress last year, both on measures aimed at promoting cooperation and measures in the area of mutual recognition. among the measures adopted were the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the framework decision on combating corruption in the private sector and the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law. the jha council also agreed the framework decision on drugs. a decision to sign the agreements between the eu and the us on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was also agreed last year. as far as trafficking in human beings and third countries is concerned, the brussels declaration on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, endorsed by the council last may, provides the basis for a comprehensive five-year work programme. the irish presidency will continue to support commission initiatives to combat trafficking in human beings, bearing in mind the contents of that declaration and the work of the expert group on trafficking in human beings, which was established in 2003. i understand that the european arrest warrant has been implemented by eight member states. the remaining member states are in the process of preparing the necessary legislation. the accession states will have to apply the framework decision on the european arrest warrant from the date of their accession. as regards procedural safeguards, i understand that the commission will publish its legislative proposals in the course of this session. on data protection in the third pillar, i would point out that various instruments already incorporate provisions to ensure the protection of personal data, for example, the schengen convention, the europol convention and the eurojust convention. progress has also taken place in the area of police cooperation. all the member states share the view that europol has a leading role to play in supporting the law enforcement agencies of the european union in the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. it is a key agency in promoting the effectiveness of, and cooperation between, the european law enforcement agencies. the priority areas for europol agreed by council are drugs, euro counterfeiting, terrorism, trafficking in human beings – including illegal immigration – and financial crime. moreover, the police of the member states cooperate closely to fight serious transnational crime on a daily basis. many operational successes have been achieved in recent years, for example, as regards drugs, terrorism, trafficking in human beings and child pornography. europol has regularly been involved in providing support for operations in accordance with the europol convention. last november, the jha council signed a protocol amending the europol convention which included several provisions aimed at improving the functioning of europol. furthermore the council adopted several instruments relating to the operational functioning of europol, including the approval of a number of cooperation agreements between europol and other states. other measures adopted in the course of the year included a decision on the common use of liaison officers abroad by the law enforcement agencies of the member states and a decision amending the schengen convention to allow for the carrying-out of cross-border surveillance on persons suspected of involvement in a criminal offence. the chief of police task force and cepol – the european police college – also continue to play an important role in the development of police cooperation at eu level. i would like to say a few words about the last steps to be taken before enlargement becomes a reality. the accession treaty, which has been ratified by all the parties concerned, provides that, in general, acts relating to the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice will be applied to the new member states from 1 may 2004. for the schengen acquis, however, there is a two-step process. the acceding states will participate in schengen-related measures on the lifting of internal border controls, including participation in the schengen information system, at a later stage, after 1 may 2004. the accession treaty also includes a safeguard clause. that provides that appropriate measures can be taken, up to 2007, if there are serious shortcomings or any imminent risks of such shortcomings in the transposition, state of implementation, or the application of legislative measures in certain areas of justice and home affairs. i will conclude my comments by briefly addressing your question about making european union business accessible to its citizens. the council acknowledges the importance of transparency in eu business. it is worth noting that the regulation on public access to eu documents, adopted in 2001, promotes transparency and provides for greater participation of eu citizens in the decision-making process. there is a high level of full access to legislative documents and partial access to other documents covering the current negotiations. at present 55% of the approximately 450 000 documents of the council document register are directly accessible to the public on the internet, in all the languages of the eu. the conclusions of each jha council meeting are available to the public, as are the texts of all adopted measures. i hope that my comments have given you an overview of the achievements in the justice and home affairs area during 2003. i thank you once again for giving me this opportunity and i look forward to continued cooperation between the european parliament and the council in this historic year. (applause)
the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this annual debate is not exactly like any other, because it is taking place at a historic moment. ten new member states will soon be admitted to the union, we are in the process of negotiating a new constitutional treaty, we are approaching the end of the european parliament's term of office and the end of the period laid down by the treaty of amsterdam to lay the foundations for an area of freedom, security and justice. i would therefore like to congratulate mr ribeiro e castro not only on the thoroughness and quality of the preparation of this debate but also on the approach he has taken to it. it is not just the balance sheet for one year but a broader view of what has been done during this parliament's term. and the commission, for its part, regardless of what i say now, will contribute to this balance sheet through a communication which it will present to the council and parliament in june this year, in which we will give an exhaustive account of what has been achieved and what has not been achieved in the light of the tampere programme and the objectives of the treaty of amsterdam, but also in which we will put forward some ideas on what could be the basis of a tampere ii programme in the area of justice and home affairs. in its efforts to follow the order of the questions raised by the honourable member, the commission has always sought to keep in parallel the four main aspects of this policy on immigration and asylum, as defined in the treaty of amsterdam: regulating legal immigration flows, promoting the integration of third-country nationals into european societies, effectively combating illegal immigration and defining a common asylum policy and deepening the partnership with third countries to regulate migration flows. as regards legal immigration, the commission has put forward all the proposals to create the necessary legal framework. the proposal for a directive on family reunification and the legal status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents has already been adopted by the council. i hope that by the end of this parliamentary term it will also be possible to adopt the proposal on victims of trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the authorities and who are therefore entitled to a residence permit, as well as the proposals on the admission of students from third countries and researchers from third countries to the european union. if i would like to make one note of disappointment, it is that it is difficult to find a common platform with the member states on the management of legal immigration flows: the so-called admission for work purposes. there is a deadlock in the council on this, the commission proposal clearly does not have the support of the member states and the commission will come back to this issue when it presents, during this semester, the study we have been asked to produce on the link between legal immigration and illegal and clandestine immigration. in the field of integration, the steps taken since thessaloniki have been positive and we are now implementing preparatory projects for a broader strategy of a specific european programme on the integration of migrants into european societies. as regards illegal immigration, the commission has presented three action plans which have been accepted by the council and are being implemented: the first, on the fight against illegal immigration; the second, on the common management of the external borders; and the third, on a community policy on the return or repatriation of illegal immigrants. i also hope that it will be possible to approve quickly the agency for the control and operational coordination of external borders, just as the commission intends to present a new legal instrument: the revision of a common schengen manual on best practices for external border control. in parallel, security issues have gained a very significant weight after the events of 11 september 2001. the commission has already put forward proposals on strengthening the security of certain key documents, such as visas and residence permits, by introducing biometric data, and will present within a month its proposal on the introduction of biometric data in the passports of citizens of the european union. the development of the visa information system, the vis, is also progressing well. as regards the return policy, the commission is basically proposing, in the short term, two types of action: one on financial support, which will have to be discussed further, and the other on an initiative on minimum standards for return procedures. as the president-in-office of the council has already said, important legal instruments have been adopted in the field of asylum: temporary protection, minimum standards for reception, the dublin ii regulation and the practical implementation of the eurodac system, as well as the european refugee fund, which has completed its first phase of existence and has mobilised some eur 146 million over the last four years. the commission is actively working with the united nations high commissioner on new ideas for asylum policy, in particular with a view to ensuring a more orderly and organised entry of refugees into the european union and the possibility of lodging asylum applications outside the territory of the european union, and also with a view to strengthening the protection capacity in the regions of origin of the crises. but there are two fundamental points for asylum policy that are still missing. i am referring to the directive on asylum procedures and the directive on the qualification of refugee status and the approximation of the rules on subsidiary protection. i welcome the fact that i know of minister mcdowell's commitment that these two instruments can still be adopted during the irish presidency, and therefore within the time limit provided for in the amsterdam treaty, so that we can conclude this legislature with the adoption of all the necessary instruments for the first phase of the common asylum policy at european level. the commission will also present a report in spring 2004 on the ongoing negotiations on readmission agreements and we particularly welcome the fact that it has been possible to reach agreement with the council and parliament on the financial programme for the period 2004-08, amounting to eur 250 million, to develop a partnership with third countries for the joint management of migration flows. on civil judicial cooperation, i fully agree with what minister mcdowell has just said to you. the commission's assessment is largely satisfactory and curious because it is probably in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters, rules on contractual disputes, non-contractual obligations, family relations and the regulation of parental authority that some of the decisions taken by this parliament and this council have the greatest influence on the daily lives of ordinary citizens, but which are usually given little attention by the media. it's much more media-friendly to talk about crime than to talk about the normal lives of normal people. well, it is in the area of the normal lives of ordinary people that the most progress has been made under the amsterdam treaty and the tampere programme and i sincerely hope that by the end of the legislature it will still be possible to overcome some difficulties in the adoption of the directive on compensation for victims of crime. as regards the external dimension, i would like to stress that the commission has asked the council for a mandate so that the community can formally join the conference on private international law, so that the process of communityisation of judicial and civil cooperation can be more coherent with that which is being carried out within the conventions of the hague conference. last but not least, the question of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i believe that the balance of this legislature is positive. positive in the sense that framework decisions have been adopted on virtually all types of european crime provided for in the treaty with one exception, racism and xenophobia, which continues to cause difficulties at council level. but i would like to stress once again that the commission has been true to the principle that the cornerstone of judicial and criminal cooperation is the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, the most striking example of which is the european arrest and surrender warrant which, as minister mcdowell has said, i hope will be fully in force in all 15 member states by the end of the first quarter of this year and will be in force in the applicant countries from 1 may this year. the commission will shortly present the framework decision on procedural guarantees and we are convinced that the initiative we will take in june this year to present a framework decision on minimum standards for data protection under the third pillar will be equally important. it is essential that criminal judicial cooperation and the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation mechanisms in the fight against crime are accompanied by rules on minimum procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings in all member states and on the protection of privacy and personal data in the same context. it is true, mr ribeiro e castro, that police cooperation is less legislative and more operational. on the legislative side, i think it is proven that the convention on the future of europe is right when it stresses that the instruments of the convention are inoperative in this area: the amendments to the europol convention are still awaiting ratification by the majority of member states; the convention on mutual legal assistance, signed in may 2000, has not yet been ratified by all member states of the european union and is therefore not yet in force. but operational cooperation has been improved and it is essential for europol to be able to fulfil its role, for there to be trust in europol by the police forces of the member states and, above all, for there to be a permanent exchange of information in relation to forms of transnational crime. finally, mr president, i fully share your concern that it is essential to inform the citizens of what has been done. the commission has been carrying out information campaigns on the charter of fundamental rights, on some of the legislative instruments we have adopted which can have a more direct impact on the lives of citizens, but, to be perfectly frank with you, i think it will be in the elections to the european parliament, through the members of the european parliament - who can be proud of what they have done in this legislature in the field of justice and home affairs - that the union can rely on, since they are the best interpreters of the information to which citizens are entitled, because they prove that european democracy works, because they prove that the issues which concern the daily lives of citizens are taken seriously by the bodies of the european union, starting with their legitimate representatives, the members of the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it is true that the progress mentioned by the rapporteur, the council and commission representatives - to whom i congratulate myself - has been made, but it must be admitted that it is still insufficient. the most serious obstacle to the development of the area of freedom, security and justice is undoubtedly the failure to adopt the draft constitutional treaty which, by making the charter of fundamental rights binding in all areas of union activity and extending the community method to judicial, criminal and police cooperation, would have solved many of the problems that still remain. we hope that this is just a delay. in the meantime, some paradoxical contradictions still hampering the implementation of the tampere programme, especially in the area of immigration and police and criminal cooperation, would have to be overcome. the same governments which in tampere approved a reasonable plan of action often fail to adopt it when it is proposed by the commission and urged on by parliament. and when they do, perhaps because of contingent emergencies, they end up adopting them, they often don't implement them in their own countries: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat racism and xenophobia. it must therefore always be borne in mind that the abolition of internal frontiers favours freedom of movement in the internal market, but also favours criminals if the powers to prevent and punish crime remain confined to national territories. it is therefore time to relaunch an updated political programme for the harmonious construction of the european legal area, a programme which is not limited to partial responses to specific emergencies, and we await with hope the communication which has been promised to us by the commission. in particular, as regards immigration, as this parliament has repeatedly called for, it is essential to define a common policy for the entry, residence and integration of third-country nationals and not to confine ourselves to the suppression of illegal immigration. but it is particularly in the area of the promotion and protection of the fundamental rights of individuals that there are delays and contradictions on the part of the council and the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the interpretation of the convention. finally, the problem of the protection of personal data is particularly sensitive, and the behaviour of most member states has been serious in allowing the transfer of personal data of european citizens to us security agencies which offer no guarantee of respect for the fundamental right of privacy of our citizens. in this case, however, it must also be said that the commission's inert and conniving behaviour was deplorable. it is indeed time to take more effective action to protect the rights of our citizens.
mr president, i accept the invitation of commissioner vitorino to inform the public. the problem is: what information do we give? we have heard the presidency of the council give us staggering figures on the transparency of the council's work, tens of thousands of documents. it is a pity that one thing is missing from these documents, namely the position of the individual member states, which is not a sensitive fact but an essential fact in the democratic process. it is not by chance that it is said - and i think this is a slight statement - that the european arrest warrant has already been approved by eight member states. but how? a document adopted unanimously during a lunch break, without debate, has not yet been implemented and is then taken almost for granted, as if it were now part of the de facto procedures of this institution. there is absolutely no reference to the ne bis in idem, although for six months the italian presidency has reminded us that in the field of judicial cooperation the ne bis in idem is a pillar of the guarantees for citizens. not a word! the presidency also welcomed the fact that the protocol was a step forward for europol: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the french and british parliaments are also opposed to such a community position on europol. in view of all this, we would like to inform the citizens. yeah, but what?
mr president, in the near future freedom, security and justice will be particularly critical areas, given the different approaches that the new and old member states have to these problems. there will be obstacles to real operational cooperation between police forces at european level. a real system is needed to defeat mafias and criminal organisations. the italian law, which effectively abolishes international warrants, seems to be designed to prevent the powerful in the palace from being questioned on issues that are embarrassing to them, such as the questionable frequentation of tax havens, the actual illegal export of capital, participation in convenient offshore companies. at the moment, the european arrest warrant has not yet been ratified by my country. after almost 50 years, the attempt to speed up extradition procedures is far from having achieved any concrete results. a closer look at the question of justice requires, then, a preliminary remark concerning the independence of the judiciary. in italy today, there is a desire to return to the legal and political culture of the middle ages, which was forever superseded in the western world by the abolition of immunities and privileges, sanctioned in august 1789 by the french states general. the division of powers in the modern state is now being called into question, first by ordinary ad personam laws, then by constitutional laws which are tried to pass off as ordinary, and therefore not linked to qualified majorities and re-reading. in the middle, the destabilizing attempt to subordinate the judiciary to the executive power, which we see daily put into practice by the italian government with systems unworthy of a civil state. why such grave words in the european parliament? i believe that democracy is not something that is exhibited but something that is lived and that the more people who live it together, the stronger it becomes. to overcome a difficult period for my country, all the european institutions need to keep a close watch on what is happening in our country today, but it can be a bad example, and it can easily be exported.
mr president, i have followed with great interest the debate which is aimed at taking stock not only of this year but of the whole of the legislature in the field of freedom, security and justice. it is a difficult balance sheet to draw up, because it has many faces: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the political part is the will of the member states. the legal budget shall be supported by the instruments made available by the treaty; the social budget is illogical, because it is dictated by the continuous evolution of the framework within which this area of freedom, security and justice is being created. in view of the time available to me, i shall concentrate on the political budget. there is a declared will on the part of most member states - but unfortunately not all - to extend and consolidate the area of freedom, security and justice, in response to an increasingly evident will on the part of european citizens to open the doors to solidarity and to widen the areas of cooperation in the field of welcoming new migratory flows, in closing the gaps that still exist in the recognition of the right to asylum, citizenship and establishment in any country of the union. in this awareness i like to identify the formidable impetus of the appeal contained in the charter of fundamental rights of european citizens, launched in nice in 2000 and waiting to acquire constitutional dignity. it is a document comparable to a good wine: at first, it did not impress many, as it was considered weak and imperfect, but as time went on, the intrinsic quality of the text emerged more and more, in which we find precise references for all the choices and actions that this difficult historical phase imposes on us. a further step forward will be the adoption at second reading of the directive on the free movement of community citizens, their rights and obligations, for which i am the rapporteur. this is a platform which must be urgently consolidated in order to be able to cope effectively with the new obligations imposed on us by the increasingly massive and chaotic arrival of third-country nationals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. almost all the political groups accepted the rapporteur's call not to amend the text adopted by the council, which only recognises 50% of parliament's requests. there is also agreement with the commission on this point. we believe that this directive, although perfected, should be implemented within this legislature, preferring to see the glass half full rather than half empty: i mean, better half the claims than a sine die delay. we hope that the council will appreciate this responsible position, so that the citizens will be given at least that part of the reforms which the text contains and which are, in any case, important steps forward in giving legal substance and political dignity to the status of european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, the amendment provides that the words 'adequately qualified' are to be added after the words 'professionals'.
mr president, i am pleased to announce the presence in the gallery of a delegation of members of parliament from the lombardy region, including my daughter elisabetta fatuzzo, who, knowing that i was to speak on the report on agricultural incomes in the european union, reminded me that there were once fruit trees producing apples, pears, cherries, the very tasty cherries, and there were fields of wheat and produce from the garden. when will we again have the pleasure of harvesting these fruits near our home, as we once did? and when will we, like adam, again receive the apples directly from the tree, picked by eve?
we are staying with this report on agriculture. i would like to see research in agriculture progress, progress, progress, so that grapes can be used to produce a wine that does not cause liver disease in those who drink it. and i would like this farming to produce pears that taste like pears, apples that taste like apples, cherries that taste like cherries, peaches that taste like peaches. but above all, mr president, may the mint - which is my favourite flavour - continue to have, more and more, the flavour and aroma of the mint, which i love and want so much.
i voted in favour of this report on the recognition of professional qualifications because the aim is to have doctors who are european doctors and recognised as such throughout europe, european lawyers, european accountants, european architects. but are we not already european parliamentarians, mr president? we are not showing that we can become parliamentarians without the need for additional examinations to be recognised throughout europe? we are therefore an example of how we can really have a single european profession. as we members of parliament have been able to do our job very well , so can all professional orders. let us hope that it happens soon!
i went to rome from milan by car. i had to go and see my mother, who i haven't seen for some time because of my commitments as a member of the european parliament. between bologna and florence there is a lot of traffic, what in french is called bouchon; you can't get through: a line of trucks, trains, cars that were stuck. i see mr gargani, the rapporteur of this report, who was there waiting for me. what are you doing here, gargani? he says: i'm here to show you what would happen if my report on the type approval of motor vehicles was not approved. look, a motor vehicle has overturned. so remember, when you come to parliament tomorrow, to vote in favour. it was a dream because i have never met mr gargani, but i think it is right to vote in favour, as i did.
i had a dream, mr. president. i dreamt of mr berlusconi, the president of the italian government; he had an aura, and so i can call him saint berlusconi. berlusconi used to say to me: i know that you are voting tomorrow on the cercas report on working time, which calls for those who are exempt from the minimum working time to be prevented from working too much. look at me . i work all day, from 6 in the morning until 2 in the morning. look how young i am, how active, how ready i am in my work, and also satisfied! my advice then is that you vote against this cercas report, so that everyone can work as hard as i do and be as satisfied and as young as i am. that's when i woke up and realized it was a dream. i felt free to vote in good conscience and, in fact, i voted in favour of the cercas report, even though mr berlusconi had advised me to do the opposite.
mr president, i would have liked to have said what mr menendez del valle said and to have made his analysis, but i will say something else. sister dominique runs the house of our lady of sorrows in abudis, a village near jerusalem, divided by the wall of segregation and annexation, as palestinians and israeli peace activists call it, or a security barrier, as the israeli authorities call it. here is the message from sister dominique: on january 11, construction began on the new nine-meter-high separation wall. it replaces another wall, much lower, built in august 2002 that allowed people to climb over it, when they were no longer allowed to go to jerusalem. thousands of people have climbed over this first wall: children, students, mothers, elderly people; many have fallen, some have even died. two months ago, we had to call an ambulance for a 65-year-old man who had fallen and hit his head. the ambulance arrived a long time later. on the way, the army searched the ambulance, forced the injured man's wife to get out, and when they got to the hospital, it was too late for him. the things that happen around this wall are intolerable. for months, hundreds of people a day have been coming through our property to escape military control, because they don't have the necessary permits. people around us live in fear of being arrested, beaten, humiliated, as all too often happens. the pressure is constant and the living conditions are increasingly miserable. in the face of the general inertia, we feel alone and helpless. we want to speak for those voiceless people who every day for the past two years have struggled to get to their workplaces and their schools or died from lack of medical care. in trying to carry out our mission, we also ran into trouble with the soldiers when we had to hospitalize people because the ambulance was not allowed to pass. the same problem arises when someone dies: the cemetery is on the other side of the wall. the shops are on the other side too. many of our patients are alone, their families can no longer visit them, we don't know what will happen when the wall is finished. most of our elders and employees are from the west bank. of our 18 employees only three have jerusalem id; for two years, they had to climb over the wall and change their route to avoid checkpoints because, even with a pass, the soldiers would turn them back. this nine-meter wall will force us to fire most of our staff and not accept the elderly from the west bank, therefore the poorest. we are more worried and isolated than ever, because of the wall and because the surrounding area has become a military zone. please help us! these are the words of sister dominique, but much worse is the situation of the people of qalqilya, who are prevented by the wall from even seeing the sunrise. the only exit from the city has an iron gate, for fifty thousand people, which the israeli army opens and closes depending on its mood. it's locked after 5 p.m. and no one can get in or out of town. and what about the inhabitants of budrus who, along with many israeli peace activists, have tried to resist the uprooting of their trees and the destruction of their homes in a nonviolent way? they were brutally beaten by the soldiers; an israeli boy is still in the hospital. the wall and the barriers that are being built are actually forcing palestinians to live in ghettos. for security, says sharon, to prevent terrorist acts, not wanting to understand that security cannot be based on the construction of a wall and settlements, but on the possibility for the palestinians to live freely in their state in coexistence with the state of israel. the wall is not just imprisonment: it is once again confiscation of land, it is once again annexation. its line is not on the 1967 borders but penetrates and divides the palestinian territory. meanwhile, the propaganda to get the wall accepted is intensifying. concerned by the negative view of the international community, the israeli authorities are trying to make the wall less monstrous. unfortunately, the proposal, published by the israeli newspaper maariv, is not a joke, as the foreign ministry's public relations team stated: if the wall were painted in bright colors it would be more aesthetically pleasing and the damage to public relations would be reduced. parliament condemned the construction of the wall and called for it to be stopped. the walls - we saw it with berlin - kill freedom. the un general assembly voted for the hague court of justice to give an opinion on its legality. the president of the european council of ministers has very inappropriately stated that he does not consider the court of justice's assessment to be appropriate. why is it that when it comes to the israeli authorities, international law, human rights violations, they must always be dismissed in the name of negotiations that do not exist, and the quartet, instead of pressing for the road map, lets time pass and people continue to die in palestine and israel? it is complicity, because this wall is not security; this wall is territorial annexation, it is colonial conquest. the european union cannot throw international law to the wind. we are taking diplomatic action, we are re-launching the road map, we are doing everything we can to prevent actions that could kill israeli civilians, but we are putting economic and political pressure on israel so that sharon does not take unilateral action and returns to the negotiating table. the international community must listen and give strength, as the council's voice also said, to the geneva initiative, to the palestinian non-violent resistance against military occupation, to the soldiers who refuse to bomb and be instruments of repression in the occupied territories, to the circle of palestinian and israeli fathers and mothers whose loved ones have been killed by the army, by israeli settlers or by palestinian murders and suicides, and who refuse to take revenge. they all show that coexistence and security are possible, in the affirmation of the right of all people to live in peace, with dignity and justice.
madam president, mr president-in-office, mrs sandbæk has said that she wants to tear down the wall. it 's an old story . there is a europe - that of mrs sandbæk - which, for essentially the same reasons, wanted to tear down the maginot line 60 years ago. the famous berlin wall, that wall of shame, was erected and supported by those who today want to tear down the wall of israel. that is what is happening, there is no doubt about it, although you have said sensible things this evening, mr cohn-bendit. it happens so rarely that i won't waste time - yours and mine - to counter your remarks. i repeat: congratulations, because you said sensible things! mr. minister, the thing that interests me most now is a matter of current affairs that we constantly miss: the european union is not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the middle east, and we are not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the middle east. please note this, because only the financial times and the norte de castilla have noticed. and the news today: the palestinian foreign minister is joining the process of israel's accession to the european union so that the same can be done for the palestinian state when it has achieved its reality, in a federation of two states, and not in that shameful basket of national states which we are offering the palestinians in 3004: a small, sovereign state made up of liars, thieves, corrupters and thugs. i hope, mr president-in-office, that you will listen to what mrs ana de palacio has to say: the texts we have been proposing in this chamber for the last 20 years, if we do not change the historical context, and the texts that will be written, road maps or not, are lost, suicidal and unproposable texts. i therefore hope that the argument for the need for israel to join the european union, which is supported by many colleagues, will be taken up with the utmost vigour because it is the contribution we can make against the europe of the '39 and also in favour of the palestinians, to whom you want to give a fascist, nazi, communist and undemocratic middle east.
mr president-in-office of the council, as you have heard from many of my colleagues, the reaction is almost unanimous, that is to say, we all consider the council's letter to the high court of justice suggesting that it should not take a decision on the question of the wall in palestinian territory to be particularly serious and inappropriate. in any parliamentary democracy, in the face of such a broad and well-established opinion of parliament, a government resigns. although the institution of resignation is not provided for in the european institutions, i would ask the council to take account of the opinion expressed in this house, namely that it is not the demolition of the wall that is endangering and slowing down the peace process, but the wall itself. this wall, mr president, as you know very well and as many colleagues have said, is first and foremost a dividing wall because it does not restore the 1967 green line but enters into palestinian territory, dividing the palestinian community, the students from the schools, the children from the parents, the farmers from the fields, the sick from the doctors. it is a wall that takes away land from the palestinian community: it penetrates up to 25 kilometres into the west bank; the first block already built, 150 kilometres long, has confined 50,000 palestinians outside their territory, which will increase to 130,000 when it is completed. these figures, mr president, are not manufactured by this parliament but are supplied to us by israeli civil society and israeli non-governmental organizations, who remind us that 670 000 palestinians are at risk of being severely harmed by the construction of this wall and that 14 per cent of the palestinian territory will be taken away from the palestinian authority. faced with these realities, we believe that the wall itself is the cause of anger, despair and hatred. we must remember this, mr president, and we must not be surprised if the result of anger, despair and hatred - god forbid - turns into violence. the day we are again faced with the victims and the figures of such violence, we must also remember how much we have contributed to the despair, hatred and anger of this people.
commission. the commission welcomes this debate and broadly supports the content of various draft resolutions tabled by parliament. whilst the facts are not yet fully clear, the parmalat case is deeply worrying. it is the latest in a growing list of major financial scandals of various types – in various places – over the last few years. the apparent size of this fraud is staggering, and the apparent complicity of a number of people from distinguished, liberal professions together with the failures of regulatory control are equally staggering. scandal upon scandal will cumulatively weaken financial markets like the corrosive drip of a leaking fuel tank. many sensible investors will pull out. economic growth will be affected because the cost of capital will rise – the enron affair has already shown that. so this matters to all of us. my first point is this: the financial services industry had better get its act together, and do so quickly. we need some real industry leadership to stand up and take charge, to clear out the crooks, expose their unscrupulous practices and curb excessive greed. if industry leaders are not prepared to do this, then regulators will have to do much more than perhaps they or we would like. if that is the result, then industry leaders cannot winge about regulation from brussels. they will have brought it upon themselves. industry leadership is lacking at the moment, quite frankly. secondly – we already have a range of policies in hand which will go some way to improving matters in the future: measures in the financial services action plan – such as the market abuse and prospectus directives – which should be rapidly implemented; measures such as the new investment services directive, which will help deal with some of the major conflicts of interest in the investment services business; the new international accounting rules which will enhance disclosure, along with the transparency directive – which we want adopted before this parliament breaks for its elections. all these directives also enhance the powers of competent authorities to act and also to cooperate much more across borders. in my view, that means cooperating as well, in the same way, with foreign regulators – non-european regulators – in particular the sec in washington and also the public company accounting oversight board in the united states. capital markets today – as we all know – are global and regulatory cooperation must be global too to match them. thirdly, in march i shall propose to my colleagues in the commission a revised company law directive on the statutory audit function. it will strengthen controls over the audit profession in the european union with independent oversight; strengthened inspection; stronger ethical and educational principles and high quality audit standards. these four aspects will be contained in the revised company law directive. as a result of parmalat, the revision of the eighth company law directive is likely also to include the following four elements: first, full group auditor responsibility for consolidated accounts of a group of companies; second, obligatory independent audit committees for listed companies – all 7 000 of them in europe; thirdly, stricter auditor rotation requirements; and fourthly, strengthened sanctions. i am accelerating work in three other areas in the corporate governance or company law areas in order to have proposals ready, if possible, later this year. they are the following three areas: the role of non-executive directors; directors' responsibility for company accounts; full disclosure in the company accounts of offshore special purpose vehicles, including the reason why the company uses those offshore structures and a much stricter verification by the group auditor of their content. we are also working hard on the issues of conflicts of interest of financial analysts and looking again at credit rating agencies. the katiforis report is of considerable help in that regard. finally, the role and regulatory control of offshore centres need to be tightened. we are considering the options, although that is not easy. we expect to table in june the third money laundering directive and we expect it to play a significant role. to conclude, this is a very important debate. we support the main lines of this resolution. we are working, resolutely, in that sense. we still wish for strong industry leadership and an appropriate dose of ethics.
mr president, commissioner, the parmalat affair is a systemic crisis because it was made possible by a worldwide network of complicity and omissions, involving banks, financial institutions, external and internal controls, public and private. i think that the parmalat affair represents the negative possibilities of the globalisation of financial markets, whose internationalisation allows fraudsters to easily hide information or manipulate it, demonstrating how a necessary combination of transparency, efficiency and stability is too often theoretical and above all fragile in the face of perverse wills that sink their roots in the absence of ethics. unfortunately, the parmalat affair is absolutely comparable to many, too many financial scandals that have characterized the news of recent times: worldcom and enron for all of us. it is painful and difficult to admit, but something in the global balance has cracked and dragged everyone down the drain, from the unwitting savers to the operators, to those who had to watch and prevent this from happening. we do not want to and we do not have to deal with individual responsibilities, because that is not our job; it is our duty to work to prevent such cases from happening again. it is essential to combat abuse and fraud and to ensure that financial analysts do not end up recommending bad investments to their clients. in the motion for a resolution which we are tabled - and we have also looked at the commission communication to the council and parliament on the modernisation of company law, which was published last may - there are indications which take account of the impact which the parmalat case has had and could have on employees, investors, banks and the proper functioning of the financial system. it is our task to try to reverse this, to try to protect the savings of millions of people and to restore full investor confidence in the financial markets. it is essential that we learn from this case and react in a proportionate way, giving an objective assessment of what has happened, projecting ourselves into the future and not limiting ourselves to a hasty search for scapegoats. it is a question of establishing what has not worked, what are the inefficiencies in the legislation and of remedying them, including by providing for new powers of public control. we may have different political views on the purpose of regulation, on the production and distribution of income, but we should all agree that action must be taken without cheating. perhaps the crisis of legality is not just a problem of men but also of institutions which, perhaps, are unsatisfactory. perhaps their rules need to be studied, rethinked, revised, and for that we need to cooperate. it is the competent financial supervisory authorities of the various jurisdictions of the union that are to cooperate. cooperation is also required with third countries: the european union is not the only one to have a plan, but the united states is also part of this plan of the first importance. i would also urge the commission to monitor any new measures concerning the role of the rating agencies. i would again urge the commission to incorporate in the corporate governance action plan measures to prevent conflicts of interest, whether these relate to investments by banks or other financial institutions in listed companies controlled by in-house entities, or to the cases of financial analysts working for investment banks who advise their clients to invest in companies to which their bank provides well-paid services. shareholder empowerment and participation must also be increased. the importance of ensuring maximum transparency before and after transactions is essential for investors in the financial instruments sector. it is therefore desirable to establish an authority at european level which takes a view, placing itself as a super partes, of european financial markets and which examines cases with cross-border implications, in line with the recent modernisation of european competition policy. i would also ask the commission to adopt as soon as possible a decision on the compatibility of the italian government's rules on european legislation in the dairy sector in the parmalat case. the companies in this sector, which are members and former members of the parmalat group, have long been in a financial situation of extremely unfavourable liquidity, which could lead to a crisis in the whole chain. if the request for aid were to be considered to be contrary to the rules on free competition, it would be the beginning of the end for a sector with a tradition and quality characteristics that are indisputable at european level. the parmalat affair requires a great sense of responsibility, above all at our level, at european level. we have three areas to work on. i think we have drawn up a good text and the next parliament will certainly have the opportunity to cooperate even better with the commission.
mr president, our group appreciates both the speed with which the commission is intervening on this particularly painful point, especially for the italian economy, and the sense of responsibility with which the commissioner has explained his proposals, which are urgent if the figures we are confronted with are true: the €15 billion represents a financial hole equivalent to 15% of the entire eu budget. it is also the result of economic deregulation and financial cynicism, of which, as mr fiori has pointed out, many are guilty: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax havens are not used as a source of revenue, and that the tax authorities are not involved in the process of creating the tax havens. many of these tax havens are under the control of eu member states. i'll give you some italian figures: 25 italian companies control 400 offshore companies; of these, 171 are resident in delaware, a small state in the united states of america, and 127 in luxembourg, the nerve centre of the european union. so, what are we doing here in europe? i would also like to propose, on behalf of mr imbeni, an initiative to limit banking secrecy. the nobel prize for economics, joseph stieglitz, points out that the use of banking secrecy is often one of the factors of economic instability and that the european union always, and appropriately, preaches transparency. i would not want us to stop at some shrines! we could propose to the international community to finally give a virtuous sense to globalization and, therefore, a global agreement on banking secrecy, which we take care of, trying to propose a kyoto of the banks  if i may use the metaphor  for an ecology of finance, to finally bring back a fulfilled ethical sense within the global economy. commissioner, you have clearly stated that the national control instruments are no longer sufficient: we urgently need global and supranational rules. financial markets must be governed and conflicts of interest and the perverse interplay between banks and companies avoided. the european union must swiftly review eu legislation, by strengthening sanctions against fraud, by taking action against impunity in tax havens and by establishing rules on the absolute independence of auditors. a subject of such urgency and sensitivity perhaps merits more attention from us - from parliament and the community institutions - than mere communication. we are not proposing a committee of inquiry, but perhaps an inquiry promoted by the conference of presidents and therefore endowed with the authority of an initiative of the conference of presidents, an inquiry to be entrusted, in an informal and voluntary way, to a group of members, which could extend beyond the end of this parliamentary term and whose functions are exploratory and propositional, to understand what has happened, how it could have happened and what needs to be done to prevent it from happening again, to avoid similar events in the future to those of parliament. finally, mr president, commissioner, the commission communication refers to shareholders, management, the relationship between shareholders and management, while little or no mention is made of workers, who are the first to pay the consequences of tragic events such as the parmalat affair. we would like to see a strong and clear voice from this house to protect, guarantee and support the thousands of workers from parma to sicily, both direct and indirect, who are now risking their jobs and their wages. i believe that an ethical sense of the economy, to which we referred earlier, recalling the responsibilities of governments and the european union, cannot ignore the main problem today, which is the protection and guarantee of the right to work.
mr president, commissioner, the parmalat case, like the cirio case in italy and the enron case in the united states or similar cases in great britain or france, is the emblem of the crisis which has been affecting multinational financial structures for some time, the basis of which is the great, disastrous gap between the real economy and the speculative bubble: we have a paper and virtual wealth that is disproportionately greater than the real, real wealth that is based on production and savings. another feature common to the cases mentioned is the lack or insufficient control by the institutions empowered to do so: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is in a position to meet the requirements of the single market. it is no coincidence that when these institutions are called into question by savers or consumer associations, they all repeat the same leitmotif: we did not know the real situation, we were unconscious of certain illegal maneuvers. either these institutions are lying or the rules of control are so elastic and so imprecise that their interpretation can be used to defraud large investors, first of all savers, perhaps with the acquiescence of the banks themselves, as we have already mentioned in various questions on the problem of the speculative bubble, which we have discussed long before it burst, but which did not receive sufficient attention, even from the european institutions. i speak of acquiescence because one additional fact that emerges from these cases is the conflict of interest suffered by the credit institutions, always to the detriment of the investors. in order to remedy the shortcomings of the rules, we have already submitted a resolution to the commission in the preceding weeks, in which we asked it to take the initiative of bringing together, at european level, the bodies and institutions responsible for the supervision and control of relations between companies and banks, in order to protect the interests of savers, and to assess the desirability of harmonizing the regulations in force in order to ensure the application of the ethical principle that controllers should not be paid by controlled persons. the obvious illegalities that are tragically affecting the investments of hundreds of thousands of savers offer us an opportunity to break another spear in favour of the independent professional advisers we have already spoken of in this parliament and to invite the commission to study the possibility of creating a european list of such professionals: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial services industry. in calling for measures to support the workers in the parmalat chain all workers in the chain and compensation for savers who have been defrauded in some cases twice not only by parmalat but also by those who have recommended certain investments to them we believe, however, that the union must seriously face the possible new disastrous consequences that could be caused by the huge gap between the real economy and the financial economy. until measures are taken to reduce this gap, the risks will always be looming.
mr president, the setting up of a committee of inquiry, which we are asking the european parliament to do, will provide useful information which we have not found sufficiently expressed in the motion for a resolution, and will give concrete and precise indications on the instruments needed to prevent a repetition of cases such as that of the parliament. we think that 5 billion bonds were issued by parmalat finance, based in rotterdam in the netherlands, by a company with a modest capital of a few thousand euros. in reality, these were not actual bonds, but promissory notes, scrap paper, which some banks - even of great importance - recommended to their customers from their own desks, concealing their true nature, which they could not but did not know. concrete rules should be laid down to ensure that subscribers are better informed: the modules should contain a brief description of the product, including - this is our request - a risk sheet, specifying the characteristics of the securities, which is not provided for today. and then there's the compensation. it is useless to cry over spilled milk, we must think of recovering the sums that have been misappropriated and give precise guarantees to savers in the event of default. why should the banks not respond directly and immediately when they have advised, even when they were close to the crash, to buy junk securities? shareholders may also have a supervisory role at company meetings, but for this to be effective, provision must be made for the publication of minutes in the information file of the measure which is the subject of the meeting. in the present case, the judges are already complaining of great difficulties in recovering the sums, for example in us banks, because american rules now give us creditors preferential treatment. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the us and its allies in the fight against terrorism. in an economic democracy, which is achieved through the participation of workers, why not provide for the obligation of representation, including control, of the workers-shareholders in the boards of directors of listed companies?
mr president, the parmalat case is difficult to decipher because the responsibilities and the complex and ambiguous mechanisms that made it possible are not fully understood. to consider it a purely italian scandal is reductive. this is a major international affair involving major international banks. they are very clear about the damage that has been done to savers. it is for them that we must think, study and encourage the application of appropriate measures, such as concrete forms of insurance, which can compensate small savers involved in the crashes. what has been described as the biggest financial and accounting fraud ever recorded in europe has dramatically highlighted the serious lack of strict and effective rules to combat the phenomena of false balance sheets of companies which, according to a recent italian law, have been decriminalised. in a single market such as the european one, where, according to the treaties, the constitutional principles of the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services apply, it is essential that the commission intervene to protect european citizens more effectively against this type of fraud, including through community measures that can increase the surveillance of the auditing of budgets for union undertakings. but that's not enough. the committee also calls for the establishment of strict rules at european level to prevent any economic, financial, corporate and personal participation cooperation between companies active in the area of the twenty-five and structures operating in the so-called rogue countries, an expression of tax havens. in particular, a severe economic embargo, binding in this sense, would force the entire international community, including the usa, to adopt virtuous behaviour, capable of preventing the occurrence of unfortunate events such as those we are talking about.
mr president, there are cases in which europe is particularly necessary, in which speed of action is particularly important and crucial in determining whether our institutions are really capable of interpreting the needs of the citizens. this must be done in a visible and decisive way. of course, we are not the united states, commissioner bolkestein, and our capacity to act is much more limited, because it is caught between national jealousies and various veto rights, especially in the areas we are dealing with at the moment. however, in our view, there is scope for action in the parmalat case which the commission should use. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. on the one hand, the commission should make proposals on the behaviour of companies when they operate in so-called tax havens to put their dirty money in. we think that there is a possibility of community legislation which would try to curb and prevent this, because this was one of the fundamental causes of the events in parliament. and that, commissioner, goes far beyond a proposal on recycling. i am afraid that in order to be truly on the side of consumers and savers, the commission, at this very politically delicate time, should be able to formulate a proposal which is visibly on their side and which, i repeat, goes far beyond the proposals which have been set out today. secondly, i would like to hear from commissioner bolkestein some proposals to ensure that the countries of the european union which control these tax havens or have access to them or which have particularly permissive legislation in this respect can be induced in some way to change course. thirdly, as mr jonckheer has already said, what is commissioner bolkestein's view of the union's position on these issues at the world trade organisation?
mr president, as my colleagues have already said, the financial collapse of the multinational parmalat was a very serious event for italy, involving thousands of small italian savers and risking damaging financial credibility and creating a general lack of confidence in our country in the future, even among foreign investors. one of the causes of this financial collapse was, first of all, the certification of the false balance sheets of the parmalat group by one of the most important audit firms, which allegedly concealed the real financial situation of the company. moreover, it is clear that the other national supervisory bodies banca d'italia and consob would not have carried out the necessary checks adequately and in a timely manner. the case also involved a number of italian and european credit institutions, some of the best known on the world financial market, which issued a large number of bonds that were no longer refundable. for all these reasons, the parmalat case has been called the european enron, although it is in fact more serious than the american scandal, since the american gdp is much higher than the italian one. as is well known, the parmalat crash is unfortunately only the latest in a long series of similar cases that have occurred throughout europe. what do the italian and european citizens, who are often victims of this financial adventurism, expect? i believe that urgent and concrete measures are required, both to protect the workers in the parmalat chain in this case and, more generally, to protect and compensate the savers involved in these crashes. in addition, instruments are expected to prevent such operations from occurring again in the future and to limit the exposure of small savers to the greatest extent possible. finally, i would draw the commissioner's attention to two last points: i believe that it would be appropriate to create a european supervisory and control body - a sort of european sec - with supervisory and sanctioning powers, under the direct control of the ecb, to check the efficiency and transparency of the stock market in order to better protect investors. finally, the ban on tax havens should be introduced by means of a blacklist.
i am pleased to note, commissioner, the initiatives you have announced and those which have recently been taken. you had the merit of saying, in the midst of the enron scandal, that europe was not immune to this kind of scandal. i want to make it clear to everyone that the parmalat scandal is not that of a healthy company, destroyed by financial scams; the parmalat scandal, unfortunately for italy, is the case of a shitty and inefficient company, which someone tried to save through financial scams. we have talked a lot today, and rightly so, about controls. i think one issue that needs to be addressed is the role of the central banks of individual countries. in italy, the central bank, with its competence in competition and thus in antitrust matters, has a key role in guiding the activities of banks and, through the banks, within the industrial system. i believe that this is an anomaly which must be eliminated and that europe, the european central bank, the commission and the council must take action. i also believe that we must be extremely careful in balancing controls and sanctions in response to the parmalat scandal. it is good to deepen controls, but let us not clog up a financial market which is vital for european economic development. we also think of penalties as a deterrent to fraudulent behaviour as much as controls. in particular, we must provide consumers with an important tool, the class action tool, under article 153 of the treaty, which would be useful in discouraging fraudulent behaviour by everyone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the parmalat crash and other disturbing financial crises that preceded and followed it have laid bare the limits of the rules governing financial markets. as in the united states following the enron case and in the united kingdom for the 34 cases of default, the need for strong legislative measures to strengthen the protection of savers and, more broadly, to try to limit the discredit that inevitably takes place in the financial market involved was immediately felt in italy. in these cases, however, the emotional factor must be set aside and, in particular, one must not be swayed by the seriousness of what has happened and the impulses that may result. i also do not think that exceptional measures, with the assumption of supervision, are acceptable, because there is a risk that a new body will be created which could hardly make an additional contribution in an environment which needs to be restructured. the existing provisions must be properly applied and certainly reformed. bankruptcy law can also play a key role: the par condi creditorum and the period of suspicion should also be included in extraordinary and supervised administration. this would strengthen the protection of creditors and the credit system, which is certainly not free from blame in the parmalat case, would not be the arbiter of itself in the actions brought, which would instead be subject to the assessment of a delegated judge. to maintain the high-profile proposals, information on all financial products offered to the public should be strengthened, both in the ex ante information leaflets and in the ex post communications, and the asymmetries in information to the public between the different financial products should also be removed. transparency control should be extended to all, including banking and insurance products with management content offered to savers. the introduction of stricter incompatibilities is inevitable, with the result that the actual independence of the control bodies is undermined. however, more will have to be done for companies that issue bonds: documents will have to be received committing the company, documents saying what it will do, when it will do it and with what investments; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to carry out its duties. ethics officer. this figure, which is a kind of listener, a signal-receiver, must be able to detect even weak elements of alarm which escape the analysts because they are attracted by the evidence. a reading of the work of the ethics officer will reveal not only the management results but also the external dimension of the company's reliability.
commission. i should like to begin by thanking members of parliament for their comments on what i said at the start of this debate, as well as for all other remarks made about this important issue. i would like to pick up on a few points at the closure of this debate in view of the importance of the subject. firstly, i should like to say something on a truly important aspect of this case: offshore tax havens and special purpose vehicles. the full complexity of the situation in the case of parmalat, as regards the use of offshore financial centres and special purpose vehicles, still has to be clarified. it is clear that the time has come to introduce some real order here. all these types of special operations ought to be subject to three requirements: firstly, they ought to be listed in company accounts; secondly, the company concerned should explain its purpose – why does that company have these special purpose vehicles? – and thirdly, the group auditor ought to be made responsible for checking that what is supposed to be there really is there. there must be greater control over these highly complex corporate structures. along the same lines, the commission will consider increased disclosure requirements in the context of the amendments to the fourth and seventh company law directives. these amendments are due to be adopted by september 2004. the question of the transparency of corporate vehicles and other legal arrangements is under consideration by the commission, both internally within the european union and also in the wider international context. secondly, i would like to say something on auditing. it might well be asked whether there is a systemic failure of the audit function; although i believe that the auditor has an important role to play in ensuring proper financial reporting, it is not the only factor under scrutiny. it is important to take a broader picture of the responsibilities for financial reporting and the functioning of capital markets. apart from auditors, we should also question the role of management, of non-executive directors, of corporate governance arrangements, of credit rating agencies – as mentioned this afternoon- and of investment banks. with regard to auditors, i believe there is a need for a stronger backbone to resist improper accounting and undue commercial pressure by the audited entities. several measures that the commission will propose in its forthcoming directive should help auditors keep their backs straight; for example, independence requirements, strong public oversight, communication with audit committees and serious external quality reviews. we may also ask whether there is an accounting issue. apparently, the existing legislation in italy on annual accounts requires neither a cashflow statement, nor much information about financial derivatives and their impact on the financial position. the fair value accounting directive, adopted in 2001, has been in force since 1 january 2004. that directive requires detailed disclosure about financial instruments such as the fair value of financial instruments, information about their extent and nature, and a table showing the movements in fair value. annual accounts, prepared on the basis of international accounting standards, which require a cashflow statement and also fair values, would have better reflected parmalat's true financial position and might have prevented fraud, at least on the scale which occurred. then there is the question of corporate governance. paragraph 7 of the resolution states that the political guidelines of the action plan on corporate governance are based mainly on transparency and disclosure. that is perfectly true, there are important transparency and disclosure initiatives, but the action plan also contains significant initiatives that are introduced via directives: it suggests appropriate and proportionate binding rules, for example on shareholders' rights and also on directors' liability. regarding independent directors, the action plan announces a recommendation aimed at fostering their role, at least on a comply-or-explain basis. it is therefore true that disclosure is key. but consultations on the action plan have shown that it is doubtful whether an approach based on binding rules on the composition and role of board committees would make much sense. lastly, to wind up this important debate, i should like to quote mr fava, who said that we need 'global rules'. i agree. it is not so easy to achieve global rules. mention was made of the wto: that is a possibility. the oecd does a lot of work in this area and we should be careful not to get ahead of ourselves. i should therefore like to support the oecd as much as possible in its work. mr jonckheer said that this is a golden opportunity to show citizens what we are here for. he is right because, as many participants in this debate have said, it is the small people who get hurt first and who lose their pension rights or their jobs. we must make clear that the european union is taking the necessary steps in order to put a halt to this kind of practice and the forthcoming parliamentary elections perhaps offer a good opportunity to do so. mr jonckheer also asked whether directors will be up to the task. that is a very relevant question. are the measures taken by the commission, the council of ministers and parliament sufficient? as mr lehne and lord inglewood have said, one cannot give any guarantees. it is impossible to give guarantees that something of this nature will not occur – guarantees only exist for vacuum cleaners! that is something we cannot do, but we can make it very difficult for people with ill intentions seeking to continue their work. we are a little bit between the devil and the deep blue sea, on the one hand between mr jonckheer, who says we should make sure this sort of thing does not happen any more and, on the other hand, mr della vedova, mr lehne and lord inglewood, who say it is impossible to completely avoid criminal fraud. however, we can make it harder. the actions undertaken by the commission and by the european union do indeed make it much harder for this sort of thing to happen again. i hope that all members of this parliament will join the commission in making clear to the electorate that the commission is doing its job and that members of the european parliament are also doing their jobs in order to prevent this sort of thing from happening again.
mr president, it is just a question of clarification. commissioner, at the beginning of your speech, you spoke about offshore banking and you listed some criteria. does this mean that you are going to present legislation on that?
in place of the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the very high and increasing number of trade and movement of people within the european union is increasingly facilitating the possibility of individual citizens or businesses being involved in litigation of a crossborder nature. these are cases in which the parties are domiciled in different member states and which therefore present difficulties. the risk in such situations is that the persons concerned will give up their rights because of the obstacles they encounter in bringing legal proceedings in a foreign country whose legislation and procedures they are not familiar with and the costs they have to bear. in addition, in many cases - such as, for example, in small claims - the costs may be even higher than the amount at stake. in other words, it is a genuine internal market brought about by the existence of a common area of justice, where individuals and businesses can access the judicial system of each member state without discrimination or penalty. this is the context in which the two green papers on which this initiative is based are set. the first deals with the transformation of the 1980 rome convention on contractual obligations into a community instrument and its renewal. the transformation of the rome convention into a community instrument under discussion today is in addition to what has already happened to the brussels convention and is certainly useful in order to ensure direct application and uniform interpretation by the court of justice. the community instrument known as rome ii, contained in the recent proposal for a regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, for which mrs wallis is the rapporteur, should complete the rules on this matter in the future. the need to integrate the three instruments is obvious and suggests not only that the rome convention be converted into a community instrument as soon as possible by adopting a specific regulation, so that the body of rules on private international law is homogeneous in terms of the source of production, but also that, at a later stage, a real codification be achieved, systematically bringing together the community provisions of brussels i, rome i and rome ii, also with a view to the enlargement of the european union. as regards the innovations to be introduced into the contents of the rome convention, it would be possible to introduce the principle that, in the case of a choice of the law of a third state, the primacy of the mandatory provisions of community law, such as the protection of the weaker party, employees or consumers, should be ensured. the scope of application of the convention rules to insurance contracts should also be extended, and certain clarifications should be introduced in the rules for consumer and employment contracts and for electronic commerce transactions, in order to ensure coordination with existing community legislation. the second green paper presented by the commission on the establishment of a european order for payment procedure and a procedure to speed up litigation in small claims is also of paramount importance. for many european citizens and businesses - especially small and medium-sized ones - it is of considerable importance that claims be settled securely and also quickly, especially when the dispute has cross-border implications because the debtor is domiciled abroad or because the judgment has to be enforced abroad. the added value of these procedures, which should be established by community regulation, for the same reasons as those we have explained with reference to the rome convention, would be the possibility of enforcement without recourse to exequatur throughout the union, allowing the recovery of large amounts of uncontested claims or the establishment of cases which creditors would otherwise be discouraged from pursuing. the regulation should also define the entire order procedure, including the conditions for the creditor's request, in order to establish a common procedure with procedural certainty and, possibly, cost certainty. the european order for payment therefore requires some additional considerations: the court has also held that the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations is not a rule of law. given that not all states have such a special procedure in their own rules of procedure and that, where it exists, it differs considerably, in order not to create a disparity of treatment between different categories of creditors, it would seem desirable to leave the parties free to use this instrument also in internal disputes.
mr president, commissioner, it is important that the issue of human rights and democracy has been brought back to the centre of the debate on relations between the european union and the mediterranean countries. almost ten years after the barcelona process, we find that these countries still have a serious democratic deficit, which has also been noted in the repeated undp reports. the question is whether the policy we have pursued so far and, above all, the instruments we have put in place have been adequate to the ambitious objectives set out in the barcelona strategy. article 2 of the clause in the bilateral association agreements has proved to be largely inadequate. but i have a deeper problem: are bilateral agreements sufficient instruments to promote the development of human rights? i believe that these agreements have been instrumental in the international recognition of regimes which otherwise would not have had legitimacy. we must be very careful about this, and i think the commission's communication asks itself this question. the ten points are to be upheld; the european parliament's democracy initiative is an interesting instrument, because it is one of the few instruments that allows us to act autonomously vis-à-vis governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like, however, for this instrument to be more consistent with the rest of our policies, otherwise it risks being a way of legitimising other policies, which are essentially realpolitik. i therefore welcome this positive incentive for countries willing to make a journey; the european parliament has also made a number of recommendations on the future of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which may have interesting potential. the most important was the sana'a conference, which brought the issue to the attention of governments and civil society. but i wonder whether we should not have a permanent and unambiguous democratic offensive by the european institutions, based on new instruments. for example, commissioner, why not try to reach a multilateral convention on human rights with these countries, which is also based on institutions capable of guaranteeing them? this would open up a different dynamic from the current situation. finally, i tabled an amendment to article 11 because i think that outsourcing this policy to an external agency is somewhat contradictory to the discourse we have had so far, since it is the european institutions that must have the power to implement this policy. i therefore ask you whether, in accordance with the financial procedures, the commission should not have the appropriate instruments to implement these objectives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to know - if we are to have a policy on this - what is happening in the mediterranean and the arab world: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal. i say this because i have the impression that in many of our member states this awareness is rather weak. the previous speaker has already pointed out, for example, the tunisian problem, with a series of very contradictory positions, and it is perhaps no coincidence that two members of tunisian civil society were prevented from participating in the sana'a conference mentioned above: this is the only case i have been able to find in the organisation of this conference. in this respect, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must abandon excessive caution, because it is important to be credible in the facts. we are not credible when, for example, we do not enforce the clauses of article 2: we are not so with governments - who consider us to be quite malleable partners - nor with non-governmental partners, whose trust we lose. i say this because, for example, the review meeting on the agreement with lebanon is approaching and i think, commissioner, that it is important to point out, at that meeting, the lack of progress on the independence of the judicial system in that country and the fact that relations with the european union should be made subject to this condition. apart from individual references to specific positions, i think it is important for the european commission or europe in general to intervene: there is a great demand for europe, perhaps as a counterpoint to other things, and there are great expectations of it. the importance of sana'a was emphasised. why is that important, commissioner? the format of the conference is as follows: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. i think it would be an important signal, commissioner, in the context of our discussion, to ensure that sana'a is followed up, so that it does not remain an episode among many but becomes a process with monitoring. the participation of women has also been extraordinary and there has been an extraordinary vitality of women's organizations, which must be helped. we have a thread to pull, commissioner, which is the result of consultation with our partners and their work, and it is not imposed from above because they are asking us to do so. i think this deserves a very substantial follow-up.
- we will pass your remarks on to the president, mr ford. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
- the next item on the agenda is the vote. report (a5-0027/2004) by mr vattimo, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 163/2001/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 19 january 2001 establishing a training programme for professionals in the european audiovisual programme industry (media training) (2001-2005) (com (2003) 188 - c5-0176/2003 - 2003/0064 (cod)) (adopted by parliament)
- the votes are in.
i'm going to ask the services to intervene, mrs. gröner. the composition of the political groups: see minutes
- mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commission for its persistence; i believe that since the elections in cambodia, the european union, through the commission in particular, has shown that it can maintain a position. i believe, however, that the situation today is extremely delicate and i share mr watson's analysis. while we do not know whether mr hun sen and his party are the instigators of the too many crimes that have been committed, we do know that they have done nothing - neither they nor mr hun sen's government - to arrest even one of those guilty of these crimes. we also know that cambodia today is no richer than cambodia was ten years ago and that for ten years the european union and the international community have poured millions and millions of euros into cambodia. so, knowing all this, perhaps we should draw conclusions. the person who has failed to act as the head of government to prevent crimes, to arrest the guilty and to bring a minimum of wealth to cambodia is called mr. hun sen. i believe that if the commission were to ask the council to give it a mandate to go and talk to the americans, the australians and the japanese in order to make the removal of mr hun sen a condition for the resumption of loans from the asian bank, the international monetary fund and the world bank, it would be possible to demonstrate and make the vietnamese and the chinese understand, and i believe they have already understood this to a large extent, that the problem of change in cambodia is to remove mr hun sen and give a mandate to another member of his party, which won the elections, even though they were not perfectly democratic, by far.
mr president, i would like to return to the subject raised earlier. the decision taken by the commission on 20 february, which amends the designations, denominations, presentation and protection of certain wine products, is important because the problem does not concern portugal alone, but all european wine-growing areas. this decision, which unified the two categories with which we protected our products of the highest quality into a single category to designate quality wines, and which introduces the possibility for third countries to produce and use the mention of our wines, having as their only reference point equivalent requirements, means, from an economic point of view, a crisis for the entire top wine sector in europe. at the same time, it also means that we are giving up a number of quality guarantees to consumers for production in europe. the commission's justification, in particular, that this decision was taken to facilitate negotiations within the world trade organisation, is extremely worrying, because we continue to discourage europe from using products for which we cannot guarantee the consumer.
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the vice-president of the commission, mrs loyola de palacio, and the italian prime minister, mr silvio berlusconi. i am speaking on behalf of vice-president loyola de palacio because, having been elected by italian pensioners in 1999 to represent them in this parliament, i have unfortunately not heard a single word confirming the policy towards the elderly and pensioners which has so far been carried out with great success by the european commission. i am speaking on behalf of the italian prime minister, silvio berlusconi, because although he knows the secret of the elixir of long life and eternal youth, he has not yet told us, and this means that we will continue to age in europe. this is very worrying to me because many more pensioners need to hear confirmation that the european commission, as well as the european parliament, is on their side against the gluttony of the budget ministers of the national states.
mr president, commissioners, i too find it difficult to hear the refrain or mantra of the lisbon objectives all the time. we are also doing it again and again, trying to convince ourselves that we can do things that we cannot do in europe. we discuss public budgets, we discuss the role that european public administrations and public administrations in individual states can play in promoting the research economy and the innovation economy. we are doing this when the financial perspective of the european union provides for a budget which will still absorb between 40 and 50 per cent of its resources for agricultural expenditure. and by spending on agriculture, what is being done to achieve the lisbon objectives? if we do not have the courage to question this, at the level of the european union budget, it will be very difficult to turn a major wheel, as could be the case with european spending, towards technological innovation and scientific research. speaking of the stability pact, we have seen major governments, from countries that are fundamental to the european union and even more so to the euro area, discuss how to achieve a deficit of 4/5 percent of the public budget. i wonder whether it is not possible in countries such as france and germany - which have public expenditure equal to or above 50 per cent of their gross domestic product - to find in these very large resources the funds needed to make infrastructure investments and to strengthen scientific research and training, particularly university training. an example comes from another large european country. i do not believe, as mr abitbol does, that the uk's better economic performance depends on the fact that the british have kept the pound sterling and have not adopted the euro. a major example comes from the uk, where a commission - not yet the blair government, but a government commission - has identified the possibility of cutting 80,000 posts in the public service, which are deemed to be of no importance to the efficiency of the public service itself, and thus saving 20 billion euros, or one and a half per cent of uk gdp, to be spent on education and then on health and safety. it is within public budgets that we must find the resources, having the courage to make costly policy choices. two other things: prospects for the european union and economic growth. we have read in the newspapers for the moment the text drawn up by a committee of experts of commissioner lamy - it is not yet the words of commissioner lamy - asking that international trade in europe be bound to national values. this means putting the european union on the road to protectionism. is this how we want to grow economically? finally, mr president, commissioners, i would like to turn to the question of immigration. just a month ago, the un secretary-general, kofi annan, came to europe and urged a policy of greater openness, first of all in the interests of europe itself and its economy. what is europe's response? it responds by closing the frontiers of the europe of the fifteen to the workers of an enlarged europe. the workers of the ten countries which will join the european union will be b-class workers; we'll have the underground community workers. this is the answer to immigration, for example. from this point of view too, rather than accepting the challenge of enlargement, europe is closing itself off. and europe is not going in the direction of lisbon, but in the direction of economic growth which is less and less important than that of the united states and, now, also of japan, but it is europe that chooses its own destiny.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003 the european commission was obliged to cut its economic forecasts for the third year in a row. the euro area gross domestic product growth rate declined again in 2003, falling from 3.5% in 2000 to 1.5% in 2001, 0.9% in 2002 and 0.5% in 2003, reflecting a situation of near-stagnation in the european economy. this problem has been the subject of debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and has led to the report i am presenting to you today. it is a report which takes account of some important needs, namely, first of all, a proper understanding of what the stability and growth pact represents for europe at the present time. the question that is becoming more and more pressing is whether stability can exist without real growth. we have tried to answer this question because we have realised that what happened when the ecofin council adopted the known position on the problems of france and germany is that our europe looks at a problem of this magnitude in a different and fragmented way. there is no doubt that the stability pact below 3% is an essential condition, especially now that we have to keep our budgets in an organic and orderly way in the face of enlargement. for these reasons, my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have been very insistent that the call should go to the countries of eastern europe, which are facing the european spotlight, to put their budgets in order and give us a more favourable view of the problem in the future. however, i also believe that we cannot continue to make a political issue of an important issue such as the stability pact. there are important countries which have invested a great deal and which, in my view, also have the right, indeed the duty, to proceed with structural reforms, in respect of which the necessary time is needed to put the budgets of a state in order. i am referring in particular to france, which has embarked on this path, and to germany, which has paid considerable costs in its attempt to enlarge to the other germany. this is a situation in which we believe that public investment must restart an economy that has come to a standstill and which should also make us reflect on the rise of the euro and the euro/dollar ratio. as mr randzio-plath has said, and i thank him for his cooperation in the preparation of the two reports, europe is faced with a situation in which it must find its own precise, timely and independent dimension from any kind of economic connection with the united states of america. we must use the lisbon strategy, which we are lagging far behind. the understanding is to invest more in research and above all to initiate a policy which will solve the problems of unemployment and which will enable our younger generations, through development, to aspire to secure and practical employment in europe. these are the objectives of the indicative report which we voted and dismissed in committee and which we will vote on tomorrow in this house, with a political and economic forecast which is not at all negative but which, on the contrary, draws on all the work done in these years by the european parliament. we believe that this institution should be given greater weight in all economic analysis and forecasting. the european parliament, for its own sake and for the years to come, must be the protagonist of the major forecasts of economic analysis and complement the valuable work that the commission is already doing. i thank all those who have collaborated and i hope that a fruitful debate can be launched.
mr president, i should first like to make a clarification regarding the speech by mr abitbol: president berlusconi never said that the euro was blocking the economy, but he said something different, namely that with the introduction of the euro, moments of speculation were created that must surely be eliminated. i can therefore say that italy is strongly pro-european, without any ifs and buts, and that in my view the single currency will bring benefits to the european economy in the future. i would like to congratulate mr bigliardo on his report, which is an in-depth study of the european economic situation, but also an effort to give a new interpretation to the stability and growth pact, with a careful look at the public finances of the european union. the economic recovery that started in 2002 proved to be short-lived and certainly did not generate sufficient momentum for economic growth. the european union has had to note, among other things, a rise in unemployment and a gradual deterioration in public finances. at the same time, the strong euro has created difficulties for exports and the slow downward trend in inflation has led to a stagnation in consumption. the study of these issues will make it necessary to ask whether the rigidity of the pact may have had some negative effect on productivity growth and employment growth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the programmes to modernise production processes must also be increased, and more investment in research and development is essential. we therefore fully support the objective of bringing r & d expenditure to 3% of gdp by the end of the decade, of which two thirds, as agreed by the barcelona council, should be borne by the private sector, in order to reward the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises in these processes. we would also be delighted if, at least, they were not included in future in the total expenditure which sets the budget deficit to be contained within 3% of gdp. the economic growth of a territory depends to a large extent on the planned and implemented investments and the priorities adopted. certainly, transit corridors and networks for freight and passenger transport need to receive more attention. the construction and development of networks must include the completion of major axes and the elimination of existing bottlenecks, particularly in cross-border areas, by developing strategic links and interconnections. it should also be remembered that the construction of direct connection infrastructures must take account not only of the central regions of europe but also of the peripheral regions of the community. this would be the real guarantee for a real freedom of movement of people and goods within the european territory and would pave the way for a strategic interconnection with the mediterranean and eastern european countries. of course, projects of this scale involve extraordinarily large financial investments, which cannot be in conflict with the strict rules of the current covenant. it must therefore be read and interpreted in a more flexible way, but it must also be seen as a guarantee of stability in europe. its existence, which was saved and safeguarded by the prudent and intelligent choices made during the six months of the italian presidency, must be protected and confirmed, but with an objectively more realistic view of the european economic framework. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the reports we are discussing express concern at the distance between the lisbon objectives and the results achieved. the council and the commission also share these concerns and rightly insist on the importance of confirming a knowledge-based economy strategy. however, i believe that, in view of the spring summit, there is also a need to reflect on the union's financial prospects and that some questions must be answered. the first question concerns how to strike a balance between the stability policy, expressed in the single currency, and a policy of encouraging research, innovation for small businesses and investment in the large networks, which enable integration between european regions. the second question concerns how to deal with a globalisation of markets which challenges the most modern firms, in the face of the united states and japan, i.e. countries which are at the forefront of research, and traditional firms, in the face of china and economies with low labour costs, social policy and environmental policies. the third question concerns the evolution of the factors of competitiveness, which implies the strengthening of the community's presence in basic research, but also in industrial policy. this community commitment is possible if the financial perspective is consistent with the objectives of enlargement of the union, but also with growth increasingly linked to human capital, the quality of products and the competitiveness of firms operating in an increasingly open market. i believe that the political problem is really about the ability to carry out structural reforms, but also to make the budgetary choices we believe are necessary to give europe a future.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance of the new focus in this parliament on the 75 million people aged 15 to 25 who will be part of an enlarged europe from 1 may and who could make up a larger share if they reach the age of 30. in italy and other countries of the european union, the actual and stable entry into the world of work takes place only close to that. a fundamental consideration is that young adults are no different from adults, but are adults in a different way. they have rights and duties which are partly different and partly similar to those of the others. the gröner report, which is also based on extensive and detailed research, proposes a commitment which is also a gamble: increase awareness and participation of young people in policy. the information we have to manage and provide to them must be clear and specific. it will not be easy to achieve the participation we want, but learning to participate and learning to inform are the best approaches to developing that active citizenship consciousness which is not yet being put into practice by all adults. if those who have not lived in the past have no future, we have no choice but to pass on to the young, who are our future, the fundamental values of our past. in this way, these updated and revised values will be the seeds for tomorrow's growth. we are certainly in favour of the european youth week because it also symbolically underlines the priority commitment to a new impetus for european youth which can count on many assets, such as intercultural learning, environmental protection, sport and the arts, to name just a few. our commitment as adults to combating social exclusion and xenophobia is doubled because it is not words but deeds and behaviour that represent the most impactful educational moment. so, working on young people and for young people also becomes a way of working on ourselves and for this opportunity we must thank our boys and girls.
mr president, this is the longest speech of my life as a member of the european parliament. i have never had three minutes to speak, and now i have been given three minutes - and i am the representative of the italian party of pensioners - to speak on a report concerning young people. i subscribe to and share the report on youth participation and information, but a short while ago, while listening to the speakers' speeches on reports concerning the budget and other subjects, i fell asleep and i apologize for that. in my sleep-wake state, two questions came to mind: but are young people different from old people? and are the elderly different from the young? they say that young people want love, but older people want love and need love too. young people want money, but old people want money and need money too. young people want to travel and dance, but old people want to travel and dance, too. no, there's got to be a difference! in 45 years of working for the elderly, i have heard them repeat many times - with regret - that getting old is bad. i am therefore sure that the european parliament has not only thought of young people but also of the elderly and has prepared a great many reports and communications for the elderly. i shall have to listen to all of them in the last months of this parliament, because so far - unfortunately - very few have been tabled. i've been doing some thinking. is it right to involve young people more in political life and in decisions that affect them? is it true that young people are best placed to make the regulations and laws that affect them? are women better suited to make decisions about their own problems? are the elders better suited to make decisions that affect their problems? i think not, mr president. the answer i gave myself will surprise you. i believe that young people should be able to make decisions and have power over what affects everyone and everyone's life. how else can i justify the fact that my daughter, elisabetta fatuzzo, 32, is preparing to give a speech to pensioners and the elderly on lombardy television? it would not be possible if it were thought that older people can talk about older people better than young people can, and vice versa. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that young people continue to be approached and helped by europe, but also that they are given a greater say in matters affecting all ages of men and women.
- mr rovsing, i have been informed that the clock on the wall you mentioned is actually broken, and it may have been for a few months. however, we have another clock that works, even if it's behind you. so you have to turn around if you want to see the exact time. in any case, we will call a technician who can make the necessary repairs. we shall also avoid having to bring this matter up again.
- the next item is the report (a5-0053/2004) by mr belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on eu-russia relations (2003/2230 (ini)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we must insist on what mr brie has already said. we are discussing a recommendation to the council in the absence of the council, which is not a good sign of the interest the council may have in such an important matter. however, i think that our debate is rich, certainly richer than what we can read today in the press after reading mr chirac's comments, according to which europe would be disrespectful to russia. but which russia? russia elections for the renewal of the parliament? we have seen, as some of my colleagues have said, an almost monopolistic situation of 'nationalist parties' - even worse than in serbia - if we want to be modest, but we know that these parties are usually quite literally fascist. but we cannot say that, because it is russia! i agree with a number of colleagues: mr arvidsson, who has drawn up a list of a number of small things that are wrong, mr brie, mr wuori and others. i don't think there's much going on. the russian state duma elections showed this. as for the presidential elections, we cannot speak of an electoral campaign, because there is none. we have all witnessed the rybkin scandal, the name of this candidate kidnapped, taken to a foreign country, drugged, sent back. there was the scandal surrounding the candidacy of mikhail khodorkovsky: he is still one of the biggest russian entrepreneurs. we wouldn't have tolerated a tenth of a quarter of what they did to her. i think that the strasbourg court will only be able to see that in three years' time, unfortunately, because by then the cases of mr khodorkovsky and mr khodorkovsky himself will have suffered what they have suffered. question to mr patten: mr patten, when should we talk about human rights violations? when 20% of a population of one million people were liquidated, was it a violation of human rights, genocide or a biblical tragedy? i think that we are talking about a violation of human rights when we are forced to note a number of serious exceptions to legislation that is known and generally respected. on the other hand, when we see, in a situation such as that in chechnya, the elimination of 200 000 people in 9 years, tens of thousands of cases of torture and rape, it is no longer a violation of human rights, but genocide. i think that many colleagues, myself included, are somewhat reluctant to use the word genocide. we all know why. in europe, 60 years ago, something extremely serious happened called genocide. in rwanda, there was something extremely serious called genocide. and today in chechnya there is something called genocide which has nothing to do, commissioner patten, with human rights violations. i thank the rapporteur, mr belder, and many of my colleagues who have, i think, finally had to admit that what is happening in chechnya, in russia, has nothing to do with human rights violations and the absence of democracy. it's much worse!
mr president, i do not want to deal with the whole subject of relations between the union and the russian federation, so i shall confine myself to the question of chechnya, recalling that human rights, in the sense of the rights of individuals and individuals, have been mentioned in this house on more than one occasion. it is a very good thing, but it seems that we have forgotten another fundamental right, namely the right of peoples to self-determination. as long as this expression is still considered blasphemous or unpronounceable, problems such as chechnya and tibet, which we have just mentioned, will remain unsolved.
mr president, the problems of the south caucasus are as easy to identify as they are difficult to solve. in addition to substantial assistance, a european strategy of considerable ambition and a perhaps more extensive mandate for ambassador heikki talvitie, the european union's special representative for the south caucasus, are also needed. commissioner patten has also spoken about this, but i do not think that the fight against corruption for poverty reduction and against drug trafficking, as well as the analysis of the elections, can be sufficient to define these measures as a strategy for the area. it is obviously difficult to operate in a fragile environment, which presents at least three endemic controversies. however, it is becoming increasingly essential to present a plan. the practice sometimes requires global objectives to be achieved in a single conference. however, it seems to me that in the case of the south caucasus we must proceed gradually, step by step, in disputes and cooperation, otherwise we risk achieving a very small result. the report by mr gahrton sets out both the situation and the needs in a good and detailed way, and i agree with the rapporteur that the south caucasus region should be given a well-defined status in the context of the wider europe policy. russia's involvement is essential on the path to stability. president putin, after dissolving a government which had always been very ambiguous towards the countries of the former soviet union and, in particular, towards the south caucasus, will also have to indicate the directives for the caucasus. in this respect, the eu-russia meeting in march could already be an opportunity. the interests and values both of which are necessary for cooperation must be clarified thoroughly and precisely. it is also necessary to take into account that the opening of the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline in two years' time will be of great strategic importance. we do not know whether the billionaire khodorkovsky, for example with his yukos, intended to conclude agreements with the american exxon, but we do not even know to what extent this is compatible with the new president putin. similarly, we do not even know what the chain reactions will be in either case. disqualifying oil pipelines on ecological grounds is just a rhetorical exercise. oil still has to go from the caspian sea to the black sea. during the cold war, pipeline planning tried to avoid soviet territory, but the situation is changing now. i think, however, that mr gahrton's report expresses a legitimate concern about these and other unknowns in the region. thanks to the oil resource, azerbaijan will be rich and georgia will have transit rights, while armenia will have nothing. this is how new sources of wealth can create new imbalances, which can only be smoothed over by political mediation. it is enough to realize that the future situation will not allow a long period of stagnation, or the status quo, in the conflict zones.
the rapporteur. mr president, in the english version of the report the word regrets, which should have been correctly translated into english as 'to regret', has been translated as 'to deplore'. i would like the services to record that the translation into italian, as far as we as a report are concerned, was 'rammarica' and not 'deplora'.
mr president, i have a very simple suggestion to make to the other groups, namely that they should follow the example of the green group/european free alliance by appointing two co-chairs, a man and a woman. i can say from experience that this is not only a solution which has advantages from a political point of view, but also from the point of view of the quality of life. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank you, mr president, for your words on the occasion of 8 march, and i think we are all concerned - as mrs gröner said - about the importance of women's presence in the next parliament and the difficulty of maintaining an acceptable presence of women. i would therefore suggest, mr president, that a very simple study be carried out by the services of parliament on what women have produced in the parliamentary work of this parliament. i am sure that, although women are still a minority in this parliament, they have contributed much more to parliamentary activity than their percentage. so getting women to vote for women based on the work that women do can be a very powerful argument. i therefore ask you to have your offices carry out a study which will combine attendance, the number of reports, parliamentary activities: it will be clear that women are working far more than their representative percentage. i think that this is a much stronger argument than many others for calling for a greater presence of women in the next parliament.
mr president, i wanted to bring to the attention of this house a matter which is shaking the hearts and consciences of the italian people. there is a terrorist named cesare battisti who was convicted in italy of four murders. on april 7th, the french judiciary will have to decide whether to grant the extradition of this terrorist to italy. i have great respect for the judiciary, but i think it would be a grave mistake not to grant extradition, it would be an attack on europe, it would show that europe is not a reality. terrorism is proven to have links in france, italy, spain and young terrorists in italy have struck more than once in recent years, they are educated by italian terrorists who are in prison. not to grant extradition would send a negative signal to these people. i hope that everyone in this house will join in this request. the commission has also been very active in the fight against terrorism, and the left has also been very active, as today a leading member of the italian left has come out very strongly to call for the extradition of this terrorist.
mr president, i give the floor to maurizio puddu, who is president of the italian association of victims of terrorism and who signed himself, in a letter sent to some newspapers yesterday, as a european citizen. the letter is addressed to mrs. barbara spinelli. the release of cesare battisti by the french judiciary is a matter of concern to us and i can assure you that it is also a matter of concern to a large number of italian citizens, whatever their political orientation. for us, murder and violence can never have cover. for us, the fact that terrorists have maimed and murdered for ideological reasons, as they claim, is not a mitigating factor, but rather an aggravating one. they and their associates will always find a thousand and one words to deceive and mystify the past, to continue to offend the memory of the dead. we ask the french, who have a great historical tradition which we have loved so much, to respect our justice, which in this case has the force of the natural right to respect for human life, which cannot be confused with any reason of the state. i have also made this speech on behalf of mrs napoletano.
- mr president, i am sorry to bother you and to bother my colleagues again with a matter which they unfortunately know very well: the chechen question. it seems that there is no limit to the depravity of russian policy in chechnya: 17 members of the family of mr umar khanbiev, the chechen minister of health, who had been received by our president, nicole fontaine, and by many group chairmen and many colleagues, were arrested because of mr khanbiev's speeches in our parliament and in many other political forums in favour of a political solution. i think that mr putin's answer, the answer of the president of a so-called democracy, is really vile. i hope, mr president, that you will be able to receive mr khanbiev tomorrow, who will be here in parliament. i also hope that many colleagues who have already met him will express their solidarity with him directly, tomorrow and the day after. i think that our parliament, which has taken extremely courageous and dignified positions on chechnya, must continue. we can't let russia do what it's doing in chechnya. this is completely unacceptable.
madam president, mr mantovani is stuck in traffic and he has asked me to take his place as shadow rapporteur, which i am happy to do. the cairo programme of action has set out important objectives for development policy which, if achieved, should lead to improved living conditions in developing countries. the report is certainly a laudable initiative and a very complex subject to deal with, but in my view it has missed the main objective which was set ten years ago at the cairo conference. as shadow rapporteur for our group, the epp, i believe that all the urgent issues that we consider to be of common interest relating to population change in developing countries, namely the issues of education and access to education, nutrition, hygiene, economic growth and migration, have not been adequately addressed. on the contrary, as is evident from much of the text presented by the rapporteur, mrs junker, the focus has been almost exclusively on issues relating to reproduction and sex education, issues which are of great importance but which are not to be tackled in an ascetic manner and isolated from a broader context, especially if these statements are not fully in line with the conclusions of cairo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would like to remind you that this report, which was approved by 11 votes to 7 in the committee, requires a re-balancing and must, above all, take up again the decisions made at the conference. in order to be consistent with the objectives of the action plan, i believe that recital r bis, which stresses the importance and centrality of the family as an element of cohesion and unity in society, should be welcomed. i also hope, as our group has strongly suggested, that paragraphs 6, 10, 11, 17, 23 and 26 will be reworded in a more balanced way. we cannot accept paragraph 20 without a rewording of it, which in fact promotes the 'tout court' termination of pregnancy without taking into account the national legal framework, and does so even through information campaigns in developing countries for safe terminations of pregnancy. in this delicate area, sovereignty must undoubtedly be respected, and the ethics of each country must also be respected, especially in such sensitive matters as reproductive health and reproductive rights. this is the position of the rapporteur for the opinion, the shadow rapporteur for the ppe, mr mantovani.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only a minute, which i would like to use on one side to support the amendments tabled by monica frassoni, which specifically concern the campaign against female genital mutilation. it is a campaign which this parliament has strongly supported, indeed started with the help of the commission, and i must say that there are already great successes in the african and arab world. on the other hand, i would like to see at least part of the report reflecting our great appreciation for the arab and african women who, in their own countries, in conditions much more difficult than ours, as you can imagine, are fighting for their rights. today, 10,000 women took to the streets in mogadishu to protest against female genital mutilation. across the arab and african world, very brave women are standing up for their rights. i would like this parliament to give them a sign of great support and great appreciation.
the rapporteur. mr president, this proposal, which was tabled in july 2001, is a proposal for a directive which aims to codify and develop citizenship of the union in the broadest possible context and, in particular, the community acquis on the free movement of residence in the member states for union citizens and their family members. the council's common position - it is fair to say - was drawn up and adopted under the italian presidency. we have only got to the debate today for bureaucratic reasons. this common position of the council departs in some respects from the commission's initial proposal, but it is nevertheless highly innovative in relation to the current acquis. for example, as regards the right of residence, the residence card is replaced by a simple registration. the introduction of the right of permanent residence is unconditional after five years and generally also strengthens protection against expulsion, especially for long-term residents. but first of all, this directive has the merit of consolidating and simplifying the very complex legislation which had been trying to regulate this very delicate matter since 1968. the directive will replace nine directives and amend one regulation. this means that it will henceforth be a kind of single text defining what the rights of european citizens are or will be when they move and reside within the territory of the european union. the definition of a citizen is also given new dignity, no longer simply as a worker, a student or a pensioner, but as a citizen who has a nationality as a person. i would remind you that we are talking about community citizens and their family members, even if they are third country nationals. this directive does not deal with non-community nationals who are legally resident in the territory of the union. the union has finally adopted new legislation. we can call it a step almost historic, but certainly important. it would take longer, too long, to say about the many things that will also change in the daily lives of citizens. here only the most important. unmarried partners. from now on, in countries where domestic law recognises rights equivalent to marriage for unmarried partners, they will be considered to be fully equal to spouses and will therefore enjoy the same rights. i would remind you that at present, registered unions for same-sex and opposite-sex partners are only possible in the netherlands and belgium, where there is even civil marriage for homosexual partners. in countries where there is no specific legislation for registered partnerships, article 3 of the directive will apply. this is a difficult article to interpret and apply, and it will therefore be for the court of justice to interpret and propose it again. the rapporteur considers that a truly historic step forward has been made. for the first time, the rights of unmarried couples are recognized in a community legislative text, which is binding, even though, as i recall, it is in accordance with national legislation. family law. there are some very interesting developments in this field. as regards direct descendants, the directive limits the possibility of being considered as a member of the family within the meaning of the directive to descendants under the age of 21 or dependants. in order to be considered as such, and therefore as members of the family, direct ascendants must be dependants within the meaning of the directive. i regret that no significant progress has been made on this point compared with the current legislation. perhaps parliament would have preferred to leave the question unanswered, at least as regards direct descendants. other innovations concern the right of entry, movement and residence. suffice it to say that this directive simplifies all the existing formalities to the utmost. i said earlier that a major innovation is the right of residence, which is acquired automatically after five years of legal residence. that is the real point, the central point of the directive. there are many more, just remember that expulsion is abolished, but not in all cases. i 'll jump to conclusions . the council decided that expulsion could only be carried out on serious grounds of public policy or public security. in short, i think it was better to accept a compromise, which is certainly not perfect, than the commission's proposal and the improvements made by the committee on freedom, rather than to abandon the directive, which will certainly be a milestone in the construction of european citizenship.
mr evans, we regret that the socialist group supports the outcome produced by the council. we regret that the main demands of the european parliament have not been taken into account, and we regret that the substance of the decision is not such that there is no guarantee that it will be applied only to international traffic. it's about production, it's about selling. if it was international traffic, no problem: is prohibited in all eu countries. the commission's requirement to apply the instruments of judicial cooperation is a requirement which introduces de facto harmonisation, which does not concern only trafficking, but concerns for example the definition of categories of prohibited drugs, which therefore prevents the possibility of national reforms of national drug legislation. what is self-cultivation, for example, the cultivation of plants? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. the results, however, are another matter, disastrous, catastrophic, in afghanistan, everywhere, with the financing of terrorism that these laws allow.
- i declare the 2004-05 session of the european parliament open.
- the next item is the report (a5-0449/2003) by mr paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls on feedingstuffs and foodstuffs (com (2003) 52 - c5-0032/2003 - 2003/0030 (cod)).
- mrs klaß, this is not the right time to make such a request, also because any such request would have to be put to the vote in the plenary, which would then decide on it. we cannot make such a request at any time during the sitting. they must therefore make this request before the vote.
- i would like to reiterate - since you too, mrs paulsen, expressed the wish that the vote should be a success - that when it comes to a decision on the vote, as mrs klaß had suggested earlier, it is a possible vote in the plenary that will decide whether the postponement of this vote can be approved or not.
commission. mr president. i am grateful that parliament has accepted our proposal on official feed and food controls so favourably, and that it has endorsed the need to ensure an improved monitoring system of the food and feed chain at national and community level. allow me to underline once more my appreciation for the intense and productive contribution of the various committees and to stress the importance and sensitivity of the issues under discussion today, which have been raised and explored as a result of mrs paulsen's excellent work. i understand the emphasis put on certain aspects, such as increased transparency and the recognition of the efforts of good businesses to produce safe food and feed. the commission regrets that its proposal to introduce penal sanctions is not supported by council and parliament. the commission considers that the use of penal sanctions would be an important strengthening of controls on food and feed operators. the commission disagrees with parliament's and the council's view that article 55(2) and (3) relate to the third pillar. on the other hand, it notes that this issue has already been submitted to the court of justice for determination in another case. in these circumstances and taking into account the overall political context of this procedure, the commission is prepared to withdraw article 55(2) and (3) of this proposal, awaiting the court's determination of the issue and reserves the right to propose again measures providing for criminal sanctions in this field. mrs paulsen raised the question of sensitive treatment of small enterprises and i would refer to the provision in the legislation that provides for a special case to be made in respect of small enterprises. i know from her extensive experience in dealing with food safety issues in this house, that she will be aware that similar sensitive provisions have been included in the hygiene regulation. she will also be aware from commissioner fischler's recent review of the cap proposals that special provision has also been made there for the funding of small and medium-sized food enterprises, particularly in rural areas, throughout the eu. mr parish raised the question of import controls. third countries must give guarantees on compliance with eu law. if these guarantees are not given, imports will be submitted to special controls, or not be allowed at all. imported food and feed will be submitted to import controls upon arrival. that control system is based on risk: the higher the risk, the more intensive the import controls. for example, food that may contain certain toxins will be checked intensively. mr whitehead then raised the question of how we can guarantee that the prior notification system works properly. there is already a system in respect of veterinary controls, where there is a form that deals with this issue of prior notification. a modest adjustment will be made to the existing provisions in relation to the veterinary controls to take this particular system into account. thought has been given to this; my officials have noted this issue as one requiring attention and it will be dealt with at a technical level. mr parish also raised the question of animal welfare. as he probably knows, animal welfare aspects are not included in the wto (world trade organisation) sanitary and phytosanitary code and there is therefore no international consensus on the organisation of controls in respect of animal welfare rules with our trading partners. the commission's proposal is to conclude agreements with third countries on animal welfare. the commission has also raised the matter in the oie in order to bring the matter on to the international agenda. there was a conference in paris a couple of weeks ago that i attended, where the oie has clearly indicated its intention to upgrade the whole question of animal welfare in international trade. this legislation also provides for national control measures to be put in place so that the fao can inspect them and be satisfied that they work properly. concern was expressed about the deflection of trade from one harbour to another and whether this would arise or not, owing to different levels of inspection and the application of less expensive control measures, thus creating an advantage for food business operators. for this reason, the proposal provides for a standard level in the veterinary sector. with regard to control measures, the proposal will contribute to reaching a harmonised level on import controls. i believe that the essential elements to avoid deflection of trade are included in the proposal. mrs klaß raised the question of the system of inspection fees and why they cannot be regulated at a more central level. there are a number of reasons for this and some have been referred to by a number of speakers earlier today. the inspection costs, for instance, are different across europe. this is due to differences in salaries, energy costs, etc. the fees in several member states are regulated at local level, which results in different fees within a single, individual member state. it is impossible for the commission to exercise its control powers in view of the complicated methods for auditing national or regional financing systems. therefore, the proposal on the table is believed to be the appropriate response to this somewhat complex issue. to conclude, i confirm that the commission accepts a substantial number of the amendments that have been tabled. a full listing of the commission's position on each of the amendments is being provided to parliament, and i trust this will be included in the record of this session see annex.. in the event that there are amendments tabled that are not part of the package, the commission will not be able to accept them.
- thank you, lieutenant. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0468/2003) by mr fourtou, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on measures and procedures to ensure the enforcement of intellectual property rights (com (2003) 46 - c5-0055/2003 - 2003/0024 (cod)).
thank you, mrs fourtou. i would like to add a personal thank you, since you spoke of a quick settlement. this way i and my two colleagues on the conciliation committees will have less work to do.
mr president, unlike mr imbeni, i do not wish to compliment myself on the procedure followed because an early conciliation, as the president has called it, is not a good procedure. it is not for nothing that conciliation has its own rules, its own developments, so that many members, and parliament itself, are involved in the debate, in clarifying the doubts about the text that is gradually being formed, and it does not happen that four or five representatives of political groups seize the procedure to come up with a compromise text a few days before the vote, with the order of the cavalry to the members and to the individual members of the groups not to touch what four or five members in this early conciliation have decided. i do not think that this is a good procedure, as president imbeni does. the implications are then found in the substance of this report. it is not true that this compromise clearly limits the scope of application. if that were the case, if that were your intention, then you could approve, for example, amendment no 101 which we have tabled with some of my colleagues, which explicitly limits the scope to intentional infringements for commercial purposes. the truth is that, although criminal sanctions have been removed from the compromise, there are still preventive measures which are very dangerous regardless of how the investigation and the procedure turn out. the danger is that a system will be adopted which will make it so simple, and even partly entrusted to private individuals, to search, seize property and take preventive measures which risk placing the market in a situation of uncertainty and instability, where those who have more lawyers and law firms - the big groups - will be able to intimidate and blackmail small and very small businesses and also the final consumer. it is not true that private copying is excluded from the scope of that compromise, since it is not excluded from the preventive measures. what's this all about? why was it necessary to do all this, this kind of special legislation, emergency legislation; maybe because intellectual property laws are laws that have been largely superseded by digital technology? the risk is that you, who want intellectual property to be respected as much as physical property - and this is also our concern - end up passing laws that are not respected. it is not by police or private police measures that the desired objective is achieved. this is the opposite of what is being done, which is to delegitimize the strength and value of the laws.
mr president, the subject of mrs fourtou is a very complex one: i think that the next parliament will have to work very hard to come up with a framework legislation. i must congratulate mrs fourtou because i think she has struck the best possible compromise. but like all compromises, some limitations in this relationship i unfortunately encounter. for example, while it provides potentially effective tools to combat activities such as peer to peer or fair sharing, it does not fully protect content providers and risks seriously compromising the integrity of any library. it only addresses crimes committed on a commercial scale and not more generally the infringement of intellectual property rights by anyone. it is clear that this point deserves great attention in order to find a balance. it was a long job that took many months. but i remember that from the very beginning the aim in the field of copyright protection has been to combat and stop the phenomenon which, alongside counterfeiting and piracy, allows for the illicit use of copyrighted material to the detriment of the activities of all content providers who legitimately constitute the value chain for the exploitation of audiovisual products. the question of the sum of private uses, reproduced exponentially by the digital broadband detonator or by any other advanced technological platform, will also require further reflection, especially in the future. this will cause a significant, quantifiable, commercial detriment to all content providers who base their business model on the lawful distribution of content, subject to contractual agreement with the right holders. we also need to reflect on the consequences of the new telecommunications legislation. the wording of the proposal for a directive not only misses some important objectives, but it does not appear to constitute an effective deterrent to infringement either, having lost in the long course of the various proposals the possibility of compensation for the double damage, emerging damage and lost profit. i confirm that in the short term, in order to have an effective instrument, we must give the greatest possible support to the rapporteur, mrs fourtou, and that we must do a lot of work on this in the future. the last two points, one in relation to recital 22. it states that injunctions may be taken against intermediaries whose services are used by third parties to infringe only industrial property rights and not intellectual property rights, as provided for in articles 10 and 15. that discrepancy between the wording of the provision and that of the recital is not without significance, since it is intended to support an interpretation according to which the expression 'intellectual property' in the wording of the articles in fact refers only to the assumptions of intellectual property; i therefore call on mrs fourtou to table an oral amendment to the effect that the industrial property right should be replaced by an intellectual property right. i am thinking here of italian producers protected by geographical indications, who in a situation like this could not obtain in other european countries restrictive measures, for example, against traders, transporters or advertisers who sell, transport and advertise counterfeit italian products. a final comment on article 16 is that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. i think it would be very important that the last sentence of recital 23a be reintroduced as the final paragraph of this article. in the absence of such specific legislation, it might be assumed in many countries that if the court has waived, following the payment of compensation by the bona fide possessor of counterfeit goods, the right to order the sale of counterfeit goods to be prohibited and the goods to be excluded from the commercial circuit, any commercial use of the goods is permitted. if we think about the whole medical field, for example, this becomes absolutely unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank mrs fourtou for her work, which she has done with great autonomy and determination, precisely because the fight against counterfeiting and piracy must be one of the priorities of the european union. creativity, which is one of the main factors of competitiveness in our economic system, is being undermined by counterfeiters because they are attacking the industrial and intellectual property rights which are the ones that allow the proper remuneration of creativity itself. counterfeiting and piracy often end up affecting consumers too, who are led to buy goods of lower quality than the original. the damage they cause is therefore not only to the individual rightholder but to society as a whole. the directive on the enforcement of industrial and intellectual property rights is therefore an important tool in the fight against this phenomenon and must be adopted quickly before the accession of the new countries, where counterfeiting and piracy are particularly widespread. the text negotiated with the council, on which there should be broad agreement in parliament, represents a balanced compromise which should allow the directive to be adopted in a single reading. the current european and national legal framework on intellectual and industrial property is respected. the conditions are being created for its effective protection and for a more vigorous fight against illegal trade. the compromise rightly provides that the most important provisions of the directive apply only to commercial practices. we cannot think of punishing people who download music from the internet just for themselves. the request for information from the alleged counterfeiter by the alleging counterfeiter must be proportionate and justified and only be made on the order of the judicial authority. the directive also does not affect the rules on confidential information and the processing of personal data or the right not to testify against oneself. it specifies the administrative and civil penalties which, by directly affecting the economic activity carried out unlawfully, have a direct effect in preventing counterfeiting, penalties which must be both dissuasive but also proportionate and progressive in relation to the unlawful act committed.
mr president, i take up the point made by the rapporteur, mr medina, who rightly said that the proposal in question and his report as a whole are not against the commission, but are aimed at harmonizing - and i believe that this term is more appropriate than ever - and at regulating better legislation. i, who was the coordinator of the parliamentary committee which reached agreement on legislative simplification (this interinstitutional agreement), cannot ignore the importance of the debate which took place in my committee, the legal affairs committee, on mr medina's report. this debate began before we worked on the interinstitutional agreement and has continued since. the report we are discussing is therefore the presupposition and consequence of this interinstitutional agreement, which, if it had been followed - let me say this, mr president, ladies and gentlemen - by the european constitution, i believe we would have had a legislature characterized by this strong connection and by this willingness to take account of the three institutions (commission, council and parliament) around which the european reality, the european community, revolves. i agree that the interinstitutional agreement is not everything. it is an agreement which lays the foundations for a completely different role for parliament, an agreement which must go forward. for this reason, the rapporteur rightly says that the improvement of community legislation must go beyond the interinstitutional agreement. the interinstitutional agreement is therefore a prerequisite, especially for the right to be consulted automatically, as mr medina rightly states in his report, in the fields of co-regulation and self-regulation, that is to say, the right of parliament to be informed immediately by the commission, to suspend definitively the application of any voluntary agreement which it has not accepted. i believe that these are the two points on which the report has its own structure and on which there can be further agreement in the next legislature, so as to lay the foundations for a harmonious arrangement between the three institutions representing europe.
mr president, israeli government circles continue to fuel a political campaign to portray the position of the european union and the institutions as unbalanced, that is to say, as being more concerned with understanding and supporting the rights of the palestinian people than those of the israelis. all this is false, and it is a fact that israel has occupied palestinian territories since 1967 and that the european institutions, including this parliament, have repeatedly called on the state of israel to respect the rules of international law. the european institutions have basically chosen a constructive partnership, with the hope of achieving the best results in this way. as long as there are forces like those which gave birth to the geneva agreements, we must continue to cultivate this hope and to invest politically in this perspective. since 1995, the eu-israel partnership has developed under an association agreement which provides, inter alia, for preferential conditions for israeli products on the european market. however, since 1976 israel has been determining the origin of its products without making any distinction between those from its territory and those from the occupied territories, in constant and repeated violation of community law, international law and the geneva convention itself. we are at a critical juncture in this matter today. the protocol on rules of origin is also about to be amended to allow for pan-european enlargement on the one hand and an israeli-jordanian system of trade on the other. but is it possible to envisage such an enlargement without having resolved the serious dispute with israel? in 2000, the council reaffirmed the respect for international law under the fourth geneva convention in trade relations with israel. in 2001, commissioner patten had considered the continued preferential exports from the settlements to be a violation. in 2003 the council decided to find a bilateral agreement with israel. at this point, commissioner, i wanted to ask you three questions, but after your answer, i put two more. the first: i understand that you said that the commission is not prepared to accept any agreement which does not provide for the cessation of this illegal practice. however, how does the commission intend to approach this debate with the council, as it seems that some member states do not share this view? finally, is the commission prepared to consult this parliament before taking any decision on this matter? (applause from the left)
mr president, i think that this whole debate is offensive to the european left in terms of its history, culture and identity. talk about a subject like that? but why, for what reason? we are not talking about something to contribute to peace, to bring the parties to the table, but about a legal trick that has no effect, not even economically. what does this lead to? what are we going to do with the new labels tomorrow morning? and then you think that tomorrow morning there is really a major violation of international law with respect to this subject? or will we have to talk about international law being violated by the statements made by abu ala within our institutions a few days ago, in which he defined hamas as a general political force and not as a contributor to international terrorism? that is a violation of international law, not a discussion of such matters. moreover, the settlements, which are so much fought over and brought to the table in this debate, in relation to the products they produce, are not helping to bring peace to an end, that is for sure! it is certainly terrorism that is preventing the parties from coming to the negotiating table. let's talk about something serious. i say to all of you: we contribute to peace. i say to the commission: we are not being ridiculous in discussing this, when we still have to clarify the question of the funds allocated to humanitarian aid: what were their real destinations? i think when it comes to discussing legal matters, in court, the dialogue ends; or it hides behind legal pretexts. well, let's try to avoid that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that not only in the speech by mr turchi, on which we have no doubt a consensus, but also in the speeches by mrs morgantini and mr laschet, i find an atmosphere different from that which we have experienced so far. the commissioner's speech is a speech which reiterates a position of the commission, i would say to some extent automatically. the commission would have said the same thing, i fear, if we had discussed the situation in vietnam in its usual way: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. but today i think the commission's tone is somewhat justified, for the same reasons as those put forward by mr morgantini and others. to want to be exact in the context of an overall truth that eludes me is a mistake of method. i understand passion, but not love for the truth; the french communist colleague, who speaks of the wall of shame. how much shame should your party denounce, which is silent even now in 2004. the real problem, ladies and gentlemen, and i will close by saying that at the end of this parliamentary term we are continuing to forget that the historical reasons which have enabled us to make the european path we have followed so far are based on the statement - summed up very well in the ventotene manifesto by altiero spinelli - that the container nation state cannot produce democracy, freedom, progress or truth, and that is why we continue, for example, to present the question of the palestinian national state as the problem we must solve for the palestinians and the israelis, which is not appropriate, and i also believe that israel lacks imagination, vigor and rigor in this regard. the israeli parties are like yours, they are european. i want to end by saying: we hope that, at the end of this parliamentary term, the federalist ideals, the federalist method, will be established with the utmost urgency by the accession to the european union of israel and the palestinian state that you wish to see, a state based on freedom and not on prevarication.
mr president, i am very right to say that i have said something very stupid and i would like to correct it immediately. i had thought and imagined that mrs morgantini could speak like mrs napoletano. i apologize pasqualina, and we give morgantini what is morgantini. it continues to be the war we want to get out of, from a point of view which i do not share.
the rapporteur. mr president, i simply wanted to point out that since 1996, with the nassauer report, this parliament has rejected all the council's proposals concerning europol, because the council does not accept the communityisation of europol and the financing of europol from the community budget. this means that europol is not subject to any democratic or judicial control. since the council is absent and the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs is asking, as it has already done, for the council's proposal to be rejected under rule 68 (3), i ask that the proposal be put to the vote immediately.
the rapporteur. mr president, just to ask you and ourselves what the rules on privacy are for, if we as the european union accept that they are not respected in any way. my report proposes not to amend the legislation on privacy, because it is not a matter of legislation, it is a matter of application. an example that many of you know: for one year now, the european union and its member states have agreed that the us security authorities can access the transatlantic flight booking terminals without any information, authorisation or regulation. so many of us are taking it out on the united states, when it is really a matter of rules which we have, could and should enforce and which we do not enforce, with commissioner vitorino telling us that we will soon set up a european system to do the same thing. so you can see why we don't enforce the rules: because we're already preparing to accommodate those privacy-infringing mechanisms. i hope therefore that we shall be able to vote unanimously on a report which denounces these situations. the problem is that when it comes to going to the court of justice, to enforcing the rules, the european commission, the national governments, the privacy authorities and, i fear, this parliament too, are very, very weak and inadequate.
mr president, the report's title is misleading. i would like to say to colleagues that one of the amendments to be voted in relation to the corbett report proposes a rule that makes it very hard to set up temporary committees. this applies to the second vote, so be careful what you do, colleagues. i know it is very late, but please take into account that this will mean that good work such as that carried out in this parliament on the prestige issue would not be possible if we were to adopt this amendment.
mr. president, a language problem on amendment 83 before the vote. the english version reads 'seizure of the infringing goods'. the italian version reads 'sequestration of controversial products'. so in english we talk about products that violate the law, in italian we talk about products that could violate the law. i do not think it is necessary, in the haste with which we have been condemned by the procedure followed, to add a further restriction to measures which i consider to be sufficiently restrictive. the same applies to judicial authorities, which in english means the judge who judges and in italian may also mean the investigating judge. it would be good to clarify whether we are giving powers which also concern the investigating judge, as i hope they are not, or whether they concern only the judge. all these problems, without the haste, that we would have been forced to... (the president cut off the speaker)
correlator is used. mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i was the tobacco co-rapporteur for this important report on the reform of the common organization of the market in certain mediterranean products. as is well known, the european commission's explicitly stated objective is to eliminate tobacco production in europe. this is the first case of forced suppression of a production which has historical roots in our continent and which is not in a situation of market crisis. i would like to recall here the main and most obvious consequences of adopting the european commission's proposal. no reduction in the consumption of tobacco products, no positive effect on the joint fight against smoking. no positive effect on member states' tax revenues, which amount to between eur 15 and eur 65 million per year in the european union, considering only taxes on the final consumption of tobacco products. a sharp deterioration in the eu's trade balance as a result of increased imports and reduced exports, with a negative balance of more than eur 800 million per year, similar to the current eu spending on support for tobacco growers. four hundred and ninety thousand new unemployed workers in the supply chain, with one hundred and ten thousand farm owners who, beyond the temporary transposition of a decoupled amount of production, would still lose their jobs as there is ample evidence of the absence of economically viable agricultural alternatives in tobacco areas; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the tobacco sector. other consequences: the closure of hundreds of european primary processing and special processing enterprises whose existence depends on the local availability of agricultural raw materials, with the consequent very significant reduction in taxes paid by enterprises and their employees and an even more serious shortfall in social security contributions; the desertification of large rural areas in the poorest areas of europe, whereas 80% of european tobacco is produced in objective 1 areas; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european economic community. for the reasons and arguments briefly set out above, it is clear that the approval of the commission's proposal is, in addition to all other considerations, contrary to the objectives of the cap as laid down in article 33 of the treaty, which, as such, is not mentioned as the legal basis for the proposed reform. i would like to conclude by appealing to all my colleagues in this house, particularly those from the regions of central and northern europe, since it is well known that tobacco cultivation affects only certain areas of southern europe. hundreds of thousands of families in the european union, whose future is tied to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion which the agriculture committee of our parliament adopted by a large majority on the basis of my report, the commission's proposal on olive oil is considered to be a good starting point. our resolution therefore seeks to achieve improvement objectives, but also to make significant corrections. we intend to maintain the income of virtuous olive growers until 2013, to protect the environmental and socioeconomic values of olive growing, but more than the commission proposal does, we are strengthening the quality and food safety factors, the fight against fraud and the transparency of labelling, again specific support for young people who must be encouraged to start olive growing. as regards the aid system, in our assessment the extreme variability of socioeconomic and environmental conditions suggests that the percentage of decoupling should be made flexible, starting at least at 60%. we believe that the option of increasing this minimum can be considered and exercised only when there is no risk of exhaustion, of abandonment of the crop. for reasons of simplification and to obtain much more substantial resources than those provided for in the commission's proposal, with reference to quality improvement, we propose to unify the aids to olive groves and quality into a single measure and to entrust their management to producer organizations because the fragmented size of our olive-growing farms would not allow for an adequate relationship with the market. we also believe that member states should have the option, as in all other productions, of postponing the entry into force of the reform until december 2005 and 2006. we believe it is particularly important that there should be appropriate rules to ensure adequate remuneration on the world market for all mediterranean olive growing, overcoming the conflictual competition between the countries of the basin, as called for by the recent euro-mediterranean conference of agriculture ministers in venice on 27 november 2004. in other words, we need clearer, more transparent legislation, as is the case with the producers, but also and above all with the consumers, who demand and have a right to clear labels and correct information, in order to better orientate themselves towards quality production with a health-related content, as scientifically proven for extra virgin olive oil. parliament therefore once again called for better classification of oils, a ban on mixing olive oil with other fatty substances, the obligation to indicate on the label the origin of the olives, with the consequent definition of the origin of the oil, in relation to the plant, the place of collection and not the place of pressing and processing, and greater transparency in the inward processing trade, to avoid that this mechanism leads to the designation and sale of community oils obtained from oils imported from countries outside the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i have analysed the amendments tabled by other colleagues. i can only say in brief that i am in favour of amendment no 91 by mr perez, which aims to maintain the prohibition of switching to other crops, as in the case of member states opting for the mechanism of regionalisation of aid. i am, however, opposed to other amendments which have already been rejected by our committee in its vote. i would like to conclude by saying to the members of the european parliament: i have found in the text for the vote, amendment no 87, tabled in committee by mr redondo. in my opinion and not only in mine, there are valid reasons for incompatibility with the vote of our committee - and it is surprising to see this in the text before our eyes - as well as reasons for the contrast between this amendment and the productions of most of the member states. i am confident that in the final vote we will be able to demonstrate the overall consistency of this opinion and thus make clear the credibility of our parliament in the negotiations with the council and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, my personal views on the reports we are voting on tomorrow differ in some respects, such as my own assessment of the mediumterm reform of the community's agricultural policy. i have accepted the compromise presented by president daul for a reason of good sense, as a good farmer, because i think it is a very balanced compromise. what i found difficult to understand - knowing his technical and political skills - was, for example, the commission's proposal on tobacco, because the proposed system of total decoupling would lead inexorably - not only in my view but also in the view of important european universities - to the complete disappearance of production with the employment consequences mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, mr berlato. i also fail to understand why, unlike all the other productive sectors for which specific production-related payments have been maintained or member states have been given the possibility of implementing partial forms of decoupling, the tobacco sector has been the only one in which the commission has opted for total decoupling. the reasons given were, among other things, health reasons, ignoring the fact that the dismantling of tobacco production in europe does not contribute to the fight against smoking and that the lack of european production would be immediately replaced by more imports from the rest of the world. so in the committee we have worked very sensibly to maintain a common organization of the tobacco market which can ensure prospects for the development of the sector in the long term. we have worked for budgetary stability in favour of producers, for equal treatment of all categories of producers in a new common market organization compatible with the needs of stability in the agricultural sector and with the permanence of tobacco growing in europe, also for strategic reasons. the reform proposed by the commission is broadly acceptable in the olive oil sector. although i do not like the decoupling system, as you know, i think that this principle can be accepted in the case of permanent tree cultivation such as olive cultivation, provided that it serves to reduce the bureaucracy of the support system considerably and above all allows us to work with measures in the field of quality, traceability, conversion and promotion, in order to encourage further quality development. we also used common sense on the olive oil regime; we have obtained a guarantee of long-term financial support for farmers. we have worked on the historical payment entitlement, which refers to the average of the payments made to the individual producer per car produced during the reference period, and above all we have introduced and insisted on financial intervention in support of quality production, traceability, market monitoring, promotion and strengthening of producer organisations and specific environmental measures. i think that the proposal which will come from parliament and the commission on olive oil will be very useful for this sector and i hope, commissioner, that you will accept the suggestions which come to you from the agriculture committee of parliament on the tobacco sector.
mr president, i will not repeat myself on tobacco, but i find it difficult to believe that commissioner fischler believes that the commission's proposal on tobacco is motivated by health reasons. it is difficult to think of this and not think that 500 000 jobs are at risk in europe. if the link between the spread of smoking and the reduction or elimination of tobacco production were true, i would be the first person in this house to support the commission's proposal. but it 's not like that . if we accept the proposal, we will only cause harm to the citizens of the union and to tobacco producers without obtaining any real help and contribution to the fight against tobacco. i therefore ask the commission to take account of this position, which has been put forward by several parties in this house, both by the political forces and by individual members. i am of course expressing a personal view, but one which i believe is extremely widespread in this house, as we shall see in the vote tomorrow. as regards the olive oil proposal, however, i think i can say that the approach of the commission proposal is quite acceptable. the need for transparency, the attention to quality, the environmental and social value of this production, seems to me to be covered in the commission proposal and have been further reassessed in the opinion of parliament's committee on agriculture. the choice to make the decoupling rate flexible, the possibility that the national states will have, as i hope, to redefine these percentages, seems to me to be a positive osmosis between the rigid coordinates of the commission and the choices of the member states, a wise decision which will enable national governments to adopt the most appropriate options for territorial realities. the fight against mixtures remains unchanged and valid, in order to guarantee transparency and consumer protection, to combat fraud, to reduce inward processing and to achieve labelling that really enhances the value and indicates the place of production and not the place of processing. in this way the monitoring agencies will be able to continue to play a role. i would simply ask commissioner fischler that after the council vote, with the opinion of parliament, the regulations which will be adopted are consistent with the decisions, which we have unfortunately not seen in the past.
mr president, i believe that the adoption of the report tomorrow will be a clear and positive signal in relation to the partial decoupling method, a solution which would avoid the dismantling of tobacco production in europe in a very short time, thus safeguarding 50 000 jobs, of which 135 000 in italy alone. the adoption of this text would also open a new phase of negotiations within the council and with the commission, so that the demands of the operators in the sector can be fully met. it would be desirable to re-examine the conditions for the eligibility of decoupled aid by calculating it, in addition to the three-year historical average, also on the basis of the additional shares acquired by the producer after 1 january 2001. the future negotiation would also make it possible to identify precisely the recipients of the resources for restructuring and conversion. first, the aid should be clearly targeted at tobacco farms; secondly, the aid should be channelled through producer associations and be allocated, only in the second place, to the territorial areas. i would like to conclude by asking president prodi, taking note of parliament's opinion, which we hope will be positive tomorrow, to give the european commission's new mandate a new direction.
mr president, commissioner, i will not repeat what my colleague, mr enzo lavarra, said because i fully agree with his report on olive oil, but i would like to say a few things about tobacco. i would like to point out to the commissioner that there is not only a problem concerning the depressed areas of the mediterranean, a problem of monoculture which is difficult to recover and convert, but also and above all a problem of social cohesion, as well as a problem of the industry and therefore the loss of thousands of jobs which puts at risk the social cohesion of this reality. if the question of agriculture, and especially the cap, must be seen in a political light, as we want europe to do in all the matters that determine its development, then we must make an effort, commissioner, an extra effort to recover something from mediterranean crops, because i believe that too much has been done in favour of continental agriculture, for france and germany. it's a problem. no one says it, perhaps no one has the courage to say it, but someone has to do it, and so i defend mediterranean crops; i say that the health approach that was put forward here is absolutely hypocritical: if we don't use kentucky, which is a healthy leaf, we'll go and get tobacco from turkey, where the leaves are not healthy because they're riddled with pesticides. the health of the citizens will therefore be compromised and the states will not ban smoking and will continue to levy excise duties.
mr president, i join the many criticisms that have already been made by other members of this house concerning the proposal from the commission on tobacco, perhaps even attempting to explain in more detail the reasons for this refusal in the light of the justifications that have been put forward. one of them even spoke of savings for the community's agricultural budget, but it will be quite the opposite, because european manufacturers will have to buy tobacco from third countries, with the result that costs will rise, employment will fall and the negative balance of the community's trade balance will be weighed down. the conversion hypothesis, which has already been rejected by many here and which i do not share, is a solution that can be proposed for other crops, but certainly not for tobacco. there are no viable and cost-effective alternatives because tobacco is grown on small plots. the only crops available are those from the mediterranean, which are already protected by community production quotas and prohibitions. tobacco, on the other hand, is supported by the great economic efficiency of its production costs. an hour's work for tobacco costs the community budget eur 5.7. for comparison, durum wheat costs 21.4 euros, and maize 12.8 euros. fighting cancer, then, is a really untenable motivation. in fact, the possible abolition of european tobacco to help fight cancer is totally ineffective. as has been said, 80% of the tobacco consumed in europe is imported. the commission was more judicious in its approach to olive oil. the proposal he has put forward on this subject certainly seems acceptable, especially if it is perfected by maintaining the commitment to leave ample room for manoeuvre to the member states in deciding the extent of decoupling, which in any case is already acceptable in the 60/40 report issued by our committee. the commission will be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in the event of a dispute.
mr president, i think there is a need to put forward a strong demand: the need for the next european council to deal with the questions relating to the intergovernmental conference, or the debate on the draft constitution, in a transparent manner, in a way that is understandable to public opinion, to the citizens and to this parliament itself. you see, mr president-in-office, we all appreciate - and i think i can say this on behalf of the constitutional committee, which has been discussing this a great deal in recent weeks - the determination and discretion with which the irish presidency is moving. but the fact is, we've been in the dark for three months. after the great test of transparency given for 16 months by the convention, we are in the dark. you have spoken to us about a number of relevant issues, institutional and non-institutional, which have been put to the irish presidency. what issues? and raised by whom? by which and how many governments? we don't know. you used a tone of confidence, and i agree with you, saying that it would be relatively easy to reach agreement on the vast majority of the open questions. we can only guess. as regards the more well-known issues, the only ones that have been discussed openly, we take very seriously what president giscard d'estaing said yesterday before our committee: the principle of the double majority cannot be called into question in any way in the calculation of qualified majorities. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of a qualified majority, which would be a qualified majority. i would like to stress in this connection, since you have referred to the papers presented by the italian presidency on the eve of the december council, that those documents, in our view, contain serious backlogs precisely in this sense, and are therefore unacceptable to the european parliament. finally, you spoke a great truth when you said that political will would be the key to reaching an agreement soon. we hope that the heads of state or government at the next summit will be aware of the importance and gravity of the moment the union is living: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft constitution. however, if the road to the constitution should still appear blocked at the next summit, with all the consequences that are easy to imagine, then the positions and responsibilities of the individual governments must be clear to parliament and to the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am well aware of the importance of this debate on the future of europe. i would like to take this opportunity to express an urgency which we radicals feel very strongly about and to which my colleague olivier dupuis has devoted more than thirty days of his hunger strike. we believe that this is an urgent need for europe's present, which unfortunately was not the urgent need of europe's recent past. i would like to return, mr president, to the chechen case. this debate is certainly important for the future and for the institutions, but if we ignore the present, the horrors of the present, we lose credibility when we want to organise a different future. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this, but i am saying that the european parliament should be able to do it. his brother magomed, the minister of defense, surrendered to prevent further bloodshed. since 29 february, in spectacular operations, dozens of armed masked men from russian forces and chechen militias have surrounded villages, entered houses, beaten, insulted, threatened to kill the khambievs to the last; they kidnapped and took with them any members of the khambiev family they could find on the spot. they've been missing for a while. in benoi, the khambiev's home village, 700 men arrived in armored vehicles, who, after beating the inhabitants and destroying everything they could destroy, kidnapped seven people and demanded the surrender of umar and magomed. i believe, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, that what is happening in our europe must be part of our political present, and this parliament has repeatedly expressed itself in this way, from a humanitarian and sometimes even a political point of view. concerns have already been expressed by the us administration. we ask that the red cross be allowed to visit the khambiev family and the minister of defence khambiev, in accordance with the geneva conventions. these are geneva conventions to be respected, mr president. we shall put a question to the council immediately, but i think it is our duty to at least react to these methods. not only by radical non-violence, but by european political presence, by respect for the geneva conventions. we even got saddam hussein to have the red cross visit him. it is unthinkable that even this cannot be achieved.
mr president, the europe of reunification, the europe of 25, 27 or 30, cannot function with an institutional system designed for a union of six or 15. without the adoption of the constitutional treaty, we risk, at best, a europe that is unrestrained, weak, politically incapable of acting and of being a protagonist on the international stage, and, at worst, a political collapse of the union, that is, a dangerous retreat from the great strides made in recent years. that is why i am convinced that the irish government's action, which is discreet but effective, should be supported. we must certainly do it quickly, before the vote on the renewal of the european parliament, but we must also do it well, as president giscard d'estaing said yesterday in the committee on constitutional affairs. we cannot accept any compromise on the downside which would undermine the valuable work of the convention. i think it is right to start from the results of the italian presidency, which has managed to secure the agreement of all the countries concerned on 90 per cent of the proposed text. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the council's decision is implemented. but the question is not merely formal or technical: the real problem to overcome is the selfishness of some, which must be addressed anyway. we must discuss this, but if we want a europe that is politically strong and a leader in peace, this selfishness must be defeated. one last comment, mr president of the council: we must not forget to include in the preamble an explicit reference to the judeo-christian roots of europe. we cannot think of building the great house of 500 million citizens without remembering the foundations on which the common fatherland must rest.
mr president, the next council's agenda will include the lisbon strategy, the union's financial perspective and the resumption of the constituent process. i shall confine myself to the latter, since i consider it decisive. this parliament has been the stronghold of federalist policy, as the president-in-office has acknowledged, and we have appreciated his prudence and tenacity today. we also agree with your concern: time is running out on the constituent treaty. we are at a historic turning point, not only because the reunification of europe makes it more difficult and at the same time more necessary to have a constitutional charter, but also because the next parliament will see a major generational renewal of the parliamentary groups which have built the european community. the future of europe would be threatened by the stalemate of the intergovernmental conference, and a new failure, instead of untying the knot of the democratic deficit, would increase the danger of having a democracy without voters, threatened by populism. failure would also be a bad signal for the objective of making the european economy more competitive, since this objective requires more economic integration, more social cohesion, more democratic transparency. however, we share the view of commissioner kinnock: the european parliament has been a party to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms since the beginning of the century. we therefore ask the council to revive, by its decisions, the enthusiasm for a more democratic europe, united in its diversity and capable of a common foreign and defence policy.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco sector is not affected by the new measures. we believe that it is imperative to abandon the present community policy, which is unnecessarily costly for european taxpayers and consumers, and which is harmful to the environment, to the competitiveness and innovation of the agricultural sector itself and to the economies of the poorest countries. in this context, the reform of the common agricultural policy proposed by the commission, which is based on a decoupling of subsidies from production - albeit an insufficient one - can be a step in the right direction. we do not, however, support discriminatory treatment beyond the cultivation of tobacco, which is clearly based on a 'prohibition policy' on tobacco abuse. we also agree with the rapporteur that the abolition of aid to tobacco growers is certainly not the same as the fight against tobacco abuse.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the committee on agriculture and rural development. as this was a proposal which would also have affected the position of italian oil in certain disadvantaged areas, our aim was to reach agreement on a partial and flexible disconnection of 60% of the aid, with the possibility that the states might raise this percentage. the national alliance supported and together with other groups, the introduction of a quality criterion in addition to the landscape and social criteria, with measures such as production with a protected designation of origin, organic production, hand-picking and other non-quantitative criteria. the quality of the product gives consumers a guarantee and protects the specific agricultural characteristics of some european countries. we are therefore pleased that the italian characteristic of producing high-quality olive oil is being concretely recognised, and we welcome the support schemes for olive growers which maintain employment in depopulated rural areas and provide important guarantees for european quality olive oil. that is why i voted in favour of mr daul's report.
correlator is used. mr president, let me for once not speak of the small or big problems that poland still has to solve to return to its rightful place in europe. for someone like me who has lived through the difficult years of the communist dictatorship - albeit from the privileged position of a foreign correspondent - and who has then returned to poland as rapporteur, this is an important, i would even say moving, moment. i would have never imagined in those years that poland and the other former communist countries would so soon be returned to democracy and free and effective economic development in such a short time. i think this is the last time i speak about poland in this house and i would like to thank all those here and there, in brussels and warsaw - and i see commissioner verheugen here - who have helped to heal this wound on our continent. i wish the poles well, because they fully understand the beauty of the european dream. however, i would also like to mention another country briefly: romania. mr guido podestà will speak about this in more detail shortly. romania has a long way to go, but it is doing its best to adapt, to prepare. we have criticised romania for its delays; he reacted by trying to put his own affairs in order. it must now be observed, encouraged, controlled, but also coveted, and that is why i think the harsh tone of condemnation in your report by baroness nicholson is excessive. we therefore support the amendments tabled by mr guido podestà, which go in exactly this direction, which is the direction of constructive criticism. (applause) i would like to thank
correlator is used. mr president, slovenia has, as we know, the best accession parameters among the ten applicant countries; the only negative point was the recognition of foreign qualifications. the recent law has resolved the situation. today, foreign securities are equated with slovenian securities. there will certainly be problems, but there is no alternative, as commissioner verheughen rightly said this morning, the man who has great merit in this enormous political and diplomatic operation. the favourable situation in slovenia depends on its size, but also on the care and ability with which the european acquis has been tackled and on the strong consensus of the parties in government and the opposition. the next objective is already to return to the euro area, a goal which seemed difficult years ago when inflation was quite high, but which now seems to be achievable in a reasonable time, given that inflation fell to between four and five per cent at the end of 2003. slovenia has thus been able to convert some of the large plants left over from the real socialism into small companies which have since become quite dynamic. in foreign policy, the question of relations with croatia remains open: the croatian parliament has recently ratified the agreement on the division of the assets of the successor countries of the former yugoslavia, an agreement signed in vienna in 2001 but only now ratified by the croats. in this legally defined framework it will therefore be easier to resolve other problems, including the croatian unilateral declaration on the exclusive marine ecological zone in the adriatic, which is also criticised by the european union as unilateral and not reached through an agreement between all the parties concerned. the general climate between zagreb and ljubljana has, however, improved recently and the values of security, stability and prosperity to which slovenia aspires are those of the european union. accession to the eu is an acknowledgement of the country's modernisation path, in line with eu values and principles. so, congratulations and welcome to slovenia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak on the report on romania. in the past few weeks, in dialogue with the rapporteur and other colleagues, i have tried to improve this report, but i must say that it has not worked and that is why i have tabled amendments which we shall vote on tomorrow in the house. i think that this report is unbalanced, untrue and inconsistent with what our parliament has said so far. for the sake of brevity, i shall concentrate on two aspects. firstly, the problem of children in institutions and the problem of adoption. the seriousness of this issue should lead us to make a serious and balanced assessment of the efforts made, the improvements made and the work still to be done. above all, we should exclude unproven accusations if we do not want to offend a friendly country and if we do not want to lose the credibility of our parliament. strict, yes, strict, but not prejudice. secondly: i do not agree with those who, in the name of a shared need to reorient the policy of the romanian government on some sensitive issues related to european integration, essentially disregard the results achieved so far. i would not like to see any hasty and naive assessments of the cost of enlargement to the countries of the carpathian and balkan regions. if that is so, if there is such a political myopia, i would like to recall - as mr daul said this morning in the house - the 50 million deaths in the two world wars in the last century. i believe that the only way to avoid the future risks, which the recent war in yugoslavia has also shown to be both potential and real, is to advance the process of integration. strictness, yes, but also understanding of the effort and the results. the rule of law will be much easier to achieve by being inside than by being outside. i believe that 2007 should remain the target for bulgaria and romania; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, in the minute i have, i would like to speak about romania and the nicholson report. this report was drawn up in committee with an approach which was then corrected at the last minute, to my personal satisfaction and that of the whole committee on foreign affairs. we must send a firm but at the same time hopeful message to the romanian people and government. romania must proceed more seriously, more rigorously on the road to reform, but it must also get on the train of accession, the train of the european union. we cannot send a message of discouragement, a message that pushes romania out of this perspective. it is important that our family should be extended to romania, a country which needs the european union, which needs democracy, which in some areas is also eager for democracy despite the existing problems. we therefore vote with conviction for this new version of the nicholson report, in the hope that it will encourage the structural reforms needed for romania's accession to the european union in 2007.
mr president, with regard to slovenia, some serious questions remain unresolved, firstly, as regards the moral and material compensation of the victims of the exodus caused by the terrible ethnic cleansing which culminated in 1975 with the forced emigration from certain municipalities, such as piran, capodistria and pristina (formerly area b), and secondly, as regards the historical memory of the phoenicians and the unresolved question of the protection of the minorities of italian and venetian culture. in europe, the protection of minorities is not optional, and slovenia should finally take concrete steps to ensure that those who defend and promote their culture in that country, as is their right, are motivated by legitimate intentions and objectives and are placed, so to speak, under the moral and political protection of the european union. i also express my solidarity with the just demands made in parallel against the czech republic by those who defend the rights of the sudeten exiles, victims of another horrendous ethnic cleansing, which remains a stain on european communism.
mr president, commissioner, i shall only dwell on some aspects of the updating of the priority projects, in particular programme 29, and even more particularly on the intermodal railway line between ionian and adriatic, which has been cut down over time by an axis that should now be restored, the bari-varna line. we consider this to be a very important issue, if it is true that the european union and this parliament intend to attach importance to the integration of the balkan area also in the transeuropean network. it cannot be said that this is not a project of european interest, because it brings great added value facilitating the mobility of goods and people and because it contributes to the territorial cohesion of the european union. the objection that the structural funds cannot be used because they are not part of the countries which are currently in the european union is one that i think can be easily overcome if we are to suggest access to the eib funds or a more discreet re-modulation of the funds already allocated by the european union to the entire balkan area. the balkans are very important not only in terms of transport but also in terms of security, and transport can contribute to security, especially in an area where illegal immigration is a constant danger for border countries such as italy and the whole mediterranean basin in general. we therefore hope that the three institutions, as the commissioner has pointed out, will agree in a more rational way to certain indications which have been given through the updating programmes of the annex 3 list.
mr president, commissioner, i shall take a minute to announce the vote of our group in favour of amendments nos 39 and 45, which provide for the removal of the messina bridge from the berlin-palermo corridor. when discussing the financing of new public works a suppressive amendment is quite unusual. parliament generally intervenes to add, to supplement, to propose. this makes the position of our group and the other groups which will support these amendments and vote against the economic and environmental sustainability of the bridge all the more significant politically. to link palermo to berlin, commissioner, more than a bridge would be required, a railway. in sicily, trains still travel on a single track, as in the days of king victor emmanuel, so we reiterate that there is no ideological prejudice on our part, but the simple conviction that this is a useless, time-consuming and expensive project.
council. – the council does not have any specific information regarding the issues raised in question h-0075/04 regarding the transfer of passenger data to nasa by northwest airlines, and is thus not really in a position to answer fully the questions raised by the honourable member. the council understands that the honourable member has also referred his question directly to the commission, which is the competent body in relation to most of the issues. however, i would say that detailed enquiries of this kind come within the competences of the data protection authorities in the various member states. the competences of the data protection authorities in this case would be those linked to the specific flights concerned. for instance, for data collected concerning a flight between boston and london gatwick, the united kingdom authority would be the competent authority, whilst for data collected on a flight between boston and amsterdam, the dutch authorities would be responsible. as i said at the outset, i have not enough material to give a more comprehensive answer to the member. i am sure the member will understand that, within the range of material i have, this is as comprehensive as i can be.
i understand, of course, that the council did not have the opportunity to obtain information, but i must also point out to the council that there was plenty of time to obtain it. we are talking about disclosure procedures, that is, procedures for access to documents, procedures which make the documents themselves public. we have given you all the specifications of the documents in question and i find it very strange that there has not been time to read them. it is very clear from these documents, for example, that northwest has, as is well known, a cooperation agreement with klm, and that therefore the aircraft booking databases have a huge overlap also with regard to air traffic within the european union itself. you say that this is a matter for the commission. this is not true, because international agreements are commissioned by the council. the council has mandated the european commission to determine the adequacy finding of the protection of privacy in the united states. the political responsibility therefore lies with the council. does the council therefore consider that this point should be included in the current negotiations or does it think otherwise?
i see that the results of the inquiry also confirm what i have said. besides, whenever there are foreign citizens who go to israel to go to palestine - because the palestinians have no borders to control - they are constantly subjected to this procedure and we ourselves have experienced movement impediments. there is another issue, besides our freedom of movement, which i think the council should take into account: it is palestinian sovereignty. in the current situation, the palestinians are not only no longer able to receive ngos, officials or citizens, but are in fact prisoners, as is happening now with the wall inside palestine. the oslo agreement, which provides for palestinian self-governing areas, is therefore totally frustrated by israel when it also prevents foreign nationals from moving. i therefore believe that the council must take this aspect into account and above all take concrete action to ensure that israel stops this restriction on freedom of movement, and that we can, in this case, respond in terms of reciprocity. if we have problems getting into israel, then perhaps the citizens of israel will have problems getting into europe.
mr president, commissioner, i too believe that the principle of mutual recognition is a fundamental element in the advancement of the single market. i would like to focus, however, in the few seconds i have, on the much debated question of water. the water sector, the water services sector is and will be crucial in europe too. i think it would be unreasonable to forgo the efficiency contribution that can be made by liberalisation and competition in this particular sector. it is not the ownership of water that is at stake, nor, as someone has said, not in this house, is it the privatisation of water, but only the opening up of the market for water services, which are often managed inefficiently by public, local and national monopolies. to those who say, "come and see the railways in britain", i say, "come and see the railways in britain". come and see the public aqueducts in italy, even the big aqueducts, the waste of water resources, the waste of public money. i do not say that it should be a dogma, but i do believe that opening up public services to competition and the market is even in the direction of a social europe.
the commission (es) madam president, first of all, as a spanish member of this house, exceptionally, i would like to thank all those who have spoken in solidarity with the victims of terrorism in spain and with the terrible effects of the attacks that have occurred in my country. as i said earlier, we have to get back to our work and i will try to answer your concerns. firstly, we must not forget that the issue we are dealing with here is a matter for the member states to organise their own systems of social solidarity. it is important to stress the point mrs doyle is making. it's a real problem, you know. however, it is also true that there is no harmonisation of these matters at community level. we can make progress through the coordination of national legislation - no doubt. this obviously means that each member state must adopt national legislation in accordance with the others. the open method of coordination can help us in this respect, but we do not have a single solution. there is perhaps a middle way - which is being worked on and can be advanced - namely mutual recognition, which would lead to a situation of total harmonization, but to a situation of recognition which could allow us to solve some of the problems. secondly, if we start from the fundamental fact that this is a decision and a national competence, it is clear that any element of coordination has to be done with fixed pre-established criteria. these objective criteria are what we have tried to include and to which i referred earlier in my speech. so in some cases we accept some of the solutions you propose and in other cases we think that the solutions you propose do not solve all the problems. the basic idea in the subject we are talking about is based on special advantages based on the principle of residence. in some cases, therefore, it is envisaged that if you change your residence, the advantages of one country will be replaced by the advantages of another. these advantages are subject to objective conditions, depending on the characteristics and the social security systems defined in each country. i understand that this may mean, in some specific cases, a loss of relative advantages in relation to the country of origin, reflecting the differences that exist between nationals of the various states of the union. so, from my point of view, there is no loophole in the regulation, there is coherence throughout the system, which does not mean that there cannot be specific problems and that we must try to solve them. i think the margin here is much more apparent at national level than at community level. and in this sense, the right way forward would be to adopt national measures to correct these kinds of problems or bilateral agreements between countries to resolve some of these difficulties. if not, of course, within the community, we can apply harmonisation where possible - in many of these cases it is not - we can make progress in coordination through the open method of coordination, we can make progress on the subject of mutual recognition to avoid those problems of free movement of persons to which many of you have referred. we are working on that basis and will continue to do so in the future.
- the next item is the report (a5-0098/2004) by mr jöns, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - proposal for a joint report on 'health care and care for the elderly: support for national strategies to ensure a high level of social protection' (com (2002) 774 - c5-0408/2003 - 2003/2134 (ini)).
the commission (es) mr president, i thank mrs jöns and her colleagues for the excellent report they have presented to us, which contains a number of interesting proposals and recommendations which deserve the commission's full attention. mrs jöns, we particularly appreciate your report's commitment to the application of the open method of coordination to improve health care for elderly people in the countries of the union. the commission plans to adopt a communication shortly with a proposal to apply this open method of coordination to healthcare issues. we will build on previous experience in this respect, because we believe that it is essential to provide assistance in this area, which is key both to tackling the problems of demographic ageing in our countries and to maintaining high and adequate levels of social protection. the first condition for launching this open method of coordination is that member states adopt a set of common objectives which do not allow a useful framework for the reform process of health-related issues to be established. in line with the conclusions of the joint report presented to the spring european council last year, we will focus on three areas: health care, accessibility and quality and financial viability. we will also have to consider the second aspect to which you have referred: monitoring. monitoring to be carried out by appropriate comparable indicators. without such indicators it is very difficult to assess the implementation of the various measures by the various member states and to see whether this learning process, which we are carrying out jointly, achieves the intended objectives. we will also develop detailed proposals for work up to 2006, when we hope to start a new simplified policy coordination process covering healthcare, pensions and social inclusion. if we are to establish this work plan, it is essential to exploit the synergies, the interrelationships in the current public health strategy and the community action programme that is linked to it. for best results, it is essential that the indicators receive strong support from this work programme. otherwise we will not have the necessary references to know the situation in each country. we hope that the council will debate the commission's proposals during the year and we believe that in this respect the report you are presenting to us today is extremely timely and useful and will be a fundamental contribution to this debate. the commission has also carefully examined the conclusions of the high-level reflection process on patient mobility and will shortly present a follow-up communication. your report, mrs jöns, deals with a wide range of issues relating to social protection, public health, the free movement of persons and services in the internal market. all of them are important instruments for defining an overall policy within our internal market competences of free movement in the public health programme and the open method of coordination applied to these issues. the commission has to pay particular attention to these different instruments so that they are coherent and consistent with each other. the fact that they are of a different legal nature does not mean that we do not have to maintain full consistency between them all and the commission will spare no effort to move in this direction. we will always remember - and this is a fundamental point - that the primary responsibility in these matters lies with the member states, especially when we talk about health and care for the chronically ill. our work on these specific points is to support to the maximum the work carried out by our member states. i thank you very much for your contribution, which will no doubt be of the greatest use to the commission.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mrs jöns, and also on behalf of mr mantovani, for her excellent work and for her excellent cooperation on this sensitive and urgent matter. as our group's shadow rapporteur, mr mantovani, who in january 2003 authored the report which launched the debate in the european parliament on the future of health systems and care for the elderly, reaffirmed the central importance of the key challenges, in particular the supply, quality, containment and coverage of healthcare expenditure in europe. as the commissioner also said, the ageing of the population, advances in medicine, increasing life expectancy and the growing demand for healthcare services, together with unprecedented mobility and information, are all contributing to a significant overall increase in the costs of the healthcare system, which is sometimes unsustainable for current economic conditions and especially for public administrations. according to the latest report of the european union's executive on the social situation, the proportion of the elderly aged over 75 will rise to 27% by 2010. in the next 15 years, the number of very old people, those 80 years of age or older, will increase by almost 50 percent. in parallel, the dependency rate of the elderly is also likely to increase in this context. changes in the over-80s will be more extensive and more rapid than in any other age group. this trend will also apply, in principle, to the ten new countries which will shortly rejoin the present member states. indeed, with the exception of poland, slovakia and cyprus where the working age population continues to grow, albeit slowly , demographic ageing is already well established and tending to increase in all other countries. much will then depend on the effectiveness of health strategies and policy choices at european, national and local levels. changes in this regard are not only necessary but also urgent. although at present the provision of healthcare, and of care in general, remains essentially a matter for the member states, we realise that such a trend, with its considerable and complex implications, cannot be met effectively and comprehensively at national level alone. last january, when the mantovani report on health systems in europe was adopted, there was a broad consensus in this parliament in favour of strengthening community cooperation in improving health services, which i believe is the only way to deal with the ageing of the population in particular. this trend will also require european society to adapt and citizens to change their behaviour and habits. these multiple problems, which concern different policies and are relevant both to the community and to the national sphere of full subsidiarity - think of the mobility of patients, the completion of the internal market, consumer policy - must be felt more and more urgently with regard to the decisions of the european court of justice and then find a new area in which to strengthen european cooperation, so that concrete results can be achieved as soon as possible. there is a need for deeper cooperation and the development of common standards, both qualitative and quantitative. the european union's objective, set in lisbon four years ago, was to become the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. today, in the face of low growth and unfavourable economic conditions, this objective is particularly difficult to achieve and will be missed if it is not tackled seriously, as will the other challenges ahead.
thank you, mrs lynne. i am sure that the services will make the corrections you have requested.
the commission (es) mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers for their contribution to this debate. i think that there are issues of great interest that have been raised and that we will try to consider as much as possible. i would like to make just two comments. firstly, the use of the open method of coordination will bring us into a new dynamic in the specific field of health. the dissemination of best practice will obviously lead to greater efficiency, which will undoubtedly benefit national health systems, their users and service providers. this use of the open method of coordination will also enable us to strengthen the social policy aspects of the lisbon strategy. secondly, i have noticed a concern among some of the speakers about the interrelationship between the internal market and health. however, i think there is broad agreement on the three fundamental objectives: accessibility, high quality and sustainability. this shows that this is not an approach focused solely and exclusively on the internal market, but that the provision of adequate health services is also essential. this is also reflected in the communication adopted by the commission at the time, which, in addition to stressing the need to move forward in the internal market, also stresses the need for the provision of adequate services to all patients and, of course, the public funding necessary for these services to be provided.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
mr president, i think that if we reflect for a second on such an important subject we are doing no one any harm. i think that, despite all the feeling of genuine and authentic participation in the tragedy that has occurred, in establishing a day dedicated to terrorism and the victims of terrorism, it is one thing to explicitly link the date of 11 march to the date of 11 september, but quite another to replace the date of 11 september with the date of 11 march, which i think is an unwise choice, even in relation to the attempt to make it a world day. there was a global political reaction to what happened on september 11th: it would seem dangerous today to replace that date and pursue the news of terrorism: it might be a little unwise. i do not know whether we can postpone this decision or add the date of 11 march, even symbolically, to that of 11 september, but to replace the latter seems to me a dangerous choice.
mr president, i prefer to keep amendment no 13.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water supply in the region. that is why the northern league voted for the railway line across the poslet and for corridor 5, which makes padania the centre of an axis stretching from lisbon to ukraine.
in writing. - (it) with the vote in parliament on the transeuropean transport networks (tens), we have fortunately reintroduced the strict obligation to comply with eu directives on strategic environmental impact assessments, consultation of the public and the management of protected areas and residential areas. this obligation was initially ignored in both the committee's and the commission's proposals. the bridge over the messina strait, which is part of the north-south railway line, which was proposed only at the request of the italian government and which was never subjected to an environmental impact assessment, as former commissioner van miert himself admitted to members of the european parliament, has been removed from the list of projects of european interest. this was an unsustainable project, and 80 million euros had already been wasted on the inadequate study of the impact of over 60 km of road and railway lines on a heavily built-up area. the landscape of the costa viola and the messina area would be turned upside down, and this would affect tourist resources and urban development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way. we must, however, continue to fight for the project to be removed from the list of major italian projects taken into account by the italian objectives act and for it to be replaced by a project to stimulate employment and development in southern italy. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the road transport services. in this context, the implementation of corridor 5 and the high-speed rail line across the posletten is a highly necessary and useful solution to the problem of congestion and inefficiency in private and public transport in veneto. this inefficiency is due to the fact that for several years the roman authorities have shown no interest in the harmonious development of our region of veneto and of north-east italy in general. the berlusconi government (which was called upon to do so by the northern league) has rightly made efforts at european level to obtain the green light and the necessary funding for the implementation of corridor 5, which will make padania the centre of an economic and commercial axis extending from lisbon to ukraine, and will make it possible in particular to promote and develop trade with the eastern markets. all this is detrimental to alternative projects which aimed to make corridor 5 go across the alps and thus cut off our regions and companies from the eastern markets. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the european parliament's resolution takes stock of the progress made in the development of the area of freedom, security and justice in 2003. the radical members of the emma bonino-listen believe that the adopted text should be much more critical of the commission, the council and the member states and that it should in particular condemn the unbalanced way in which the institutions with the initiative and decision-making powers in these areas acted and acted. the energy and timeliness with which these institutions proposed and adopted measures aimed at strengthening the various criminal measures in the fight against terrorism, judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the harmonization of sanctions and the fight against illegal immigration have not been matched by a strengthening of the freedoms and rights of european and non-european citizens. for example, the commission has not yet adopted the framework decision on legal certainty guarantees announced. finally, the freezing of the eu constitution has not yet solved the structural problems that the european parliament has been complaining about for many years, such as the lack of democratic control and judicial control at european and national level, as regards measures and organisations at eu level.
mr president, there is a dispute in italy, in my own region, trentino-alto adige/südtirol, about the ethnic-linguistic census supported by the special statute of autonomy and carried out with great effort by the german-speaking administration. this census is contrary to the principle of free movement and to directive 95/46/ec on the protection of personal data, in particular article 8 which protects the ethnic origin of citizens. while a possible infringement procedure is under way with the italian state, it appears that commissioner bolkestein has agreed a solution directly with the president of the province of bolzano, as announced by the president himself on his return from a trip to brussels. i would like to know from commissioner bolkestein what the tone of this meeting was, since the italian government, which is responsible for this type of negotiation, has already made an official protest. whether it is true that a solution has been agreed or whether the problem has simply been discussed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this parliament can be satisfied with the work done on such a major issue, and in particular on the directive on markets in financial instruments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as we know, the negotiations with the council have been difficult at times, but i believe that the compromise we are going to vote on tomorrow will make the important demands - or at least some of them - put forward by parliament its own. the compromise succeeded in taking account of the practices, characteristics and traditions typical of the economic and financial systems of the various member states - i am thinking, for example, of italy - without, however, making excessive concessions to the protectionist temptations of some of them or to those who would have liked to see the imposition of a single model. the solution we are voting on tomorrow will also open up new opportunities for investors in those countries which had opted for the rule of market concentration. the principle of competition between trading systems, which must offer alternatives to regulated markets, is unhesitatingly affirmed. the liberalisation of trading activities in listed financial instruments and the promotion of greater operational decentralisation will reduce the barriers to entry for trading and service providers, leading to a reduction in operational costs and an improvement in the quality of services. competition will therefore encourage innovation and efficiency. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to announce the favourable vote of the radical members of the bonino list for this compromise.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for her work and for the excellent motion for a resolution she has tabled, a motion which i fully support. it is quite clear that the united states, like any other country that is serious about fighting terrorism, has the right to make every possible ascertainment of the identity of the people entering its territory, the purpose for which they enter, and the length of time they stay there. to this end, the european parliament has repeatedly called for and continues to call for an international agreement defining which personal data of air passengers should be automatically transferred to the us security agencies in advance, which additional data may be requested, by whom it may be used, for how long it may be stored, what the responsibilities of airlines are in the event of errors in the transcription or transmission of data and, above all, what remedies are offered to passengers in the event of errors and what remedies are available in the event of a violation of their rights. despite lengthy negotiations, the unilateral commitments made by the united states do not provide the required guarantees or an adequate level of protection: because these commitments do not constitute a binding international agreement, but rather it is explicitly stated that they do not create any rights for any public or private party; because direct access to the various airline archives generates a large amount of personal data, which varies according to the practices of the individual airlines, is collected for private purposes and may be different if collected for security purposes: for example, anyone who fails to leave the united states on a return flight could be considered a suspect. now, we're all used to buying round-trip airline tickets simply because they're often cheaper than one-way tickets. if we were to answer a police or customs officer's request for the date of our return, we would give the exact date and not the one on the air ticket that we do not intend to use for the return; but the date to be taken into account shall be that which appears in the airline's records. do you see the serious misunderstandings that can arise from the uncontrolled use of data collected for commercial purposes for security purposes? the same can be said about the accuracy of the data as the correct and complete spelling of names. i personally am still awaiting a reply from the council to an urgent question concerning a serious incident involving an italian citizen who was arrested on arrival in the united states and sent back to europe by mistake without being able to give any explanation. a european manager who is the victim of such a misunderstanding, and is unjustly considered a suspect, can see his career destroyed. and how can he get justice? it is wrong and dangerous, even for the effective fight against terrorism, to rely on indiscriminate collection of data not specifically selected for security purposes, and it is unfair not to provide for rapid and effective tools to ensure that those concerned are able to rectify erroneous data. i would remind you that article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states: everyone has the right to access and rectify the data collected about him/her. the commission's decision does not respect community law or the principles of the union. the commission is exempted from the powers conferred on it by article 25 of the data protection directive when it declares that the united states provides adequate protection for the rights of european citizens. it is not true that a more adequate result cannot be achieved. the same american associations for the defence of fundamental rights are calling for better legal protection in their own country.
commissioner bolkestein, we will never agree on the balance between security and freedom unless we first agree that this balance must be implemented in accordance with the law. commissioner bolkestein, for the last 13 months the laws of 15 countries in the european union and also community regulations have been violated every day. you didn't take care of that. there was no need to enter into such a negotiation in the weak condition of those who are willing to give up respect for and application of their own law. of course, we are in a weak position today because we entered the negotiations in a weak position. the american security authorities cannot in any way require airlines to transfer personal data illegally. this is only possible because you, commissioner, all of you, the european commission, the national states, most of the privacy watchdogs, have accepted all of this. the alternative could be: a solution, for example, which would involve the preparation by the american security authorities of light visa mechanisms, a mechanism whereby the individual would provide personal data, not to the airline for commercial purposes but to the security authorities. you have not wanted to do this because, like the united states, you are preparing to allow the use of data collected for commercial purposes for security purposes. this is against the european convention on human rights. fighting terrorism by tolerating lawlessness for thirteen months is truly a picture of this europe; the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. this is not how we build the europe of counter-terrorism!
mr president, i must say frankly that emotionally my speech will be different from what i would have done before 11 march this year, that is to say before the tragic events in spain. let 's face it . we had partly accepted or had become accustomed to the tragedy of 9/11, and so the question of the data requested by the united states had also become part of a normal debate on the question of legitimacy. i think we have to start with an assumption: the citizens must, however, be clearly informed in advance that they will be faced with this type of requirement and therefore with this type of control. however, citizens must be equally clearly informed about the use and destination of information, in particular information which goes beyond narrow personal generalizations and may reveal, for example, membership of a religion, a political movement or sensitive tastes or habits. i would like to remind you of directive 9546, which i quoted earlier in connection with a request for clarification to commissioner bolkestein on the linguistic census in south tyrol: i hope, commissioner, that by the end of the night, sooner or later, i will have an answer. there is a principle that applies here too, namely where article 6 (1) (c) says that the personal data collected must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collected and for which they are subsequently processed. i think that this 'not exceeding the objectives' opens up a very wide spectrum of debate. the objectives are well known: the fight against terrorism; and then -- i'll be honest -- a lot of the confusion, at least inside me, is overcome, and i can also overcome the confusion about the number of agencies that have access to the data, whether a system of immediate access is used, about the lack of appeal procedures, and a lot more. if i think that all this serves a purpose as we know it - the fight against terrorism - i consider it a necessary sacrifice for a higher purpose.
commissioner, today parliament is going to vote on a very important package, the hygiene package, and i have to say that the plan to reorganise all food legislation, initiated by the commission's white paper on food safety, has been one of the main themes of this legislature, with the fundamental objective of ensuring, at least from a legislative point of view, the health and safety of consumers. this is a top priority in view of the incidents of 'poor hygiene' in recent years and the backlash this has had on many primary sector activities. the commission's compromise position, the council's reply and parliament's position make it clear that, as with all compromise and mediation positions, we would always like something more. i think, however, that this is a very wise compromise position, partly because it represents a compromise between the needs of production and those of consumption, between the correct running of company accounts and the safeguarding of the fundamental right of citizens to healthy and safe food and consumer products. i would like to make three points: we would certainly have liked the food hygiene regulation to have included perhaps more binding application of the haccp system and probably more reference to the codex alimentarius. we would also probably have liked to have put more emphasis on the farm-to-table principle, which is very much liked by consumers but on which we need to be very clear and which entails additional costs for the agricultural sector. finally, we would like to emphasize that we believe it is essential that regulations adopted in the community should be equally valid in all the member states, and that it would therefore be appropriate to restrict the possibility of approving changes and to authorize them only in order to better protect the typical production of each country, without ever compromising food safety and food safety. a final word, commissioner, on amendments nos 9 and 14: we 've grown attached . it is a very important matter, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
mr president, whereas in the past animals - except those which were traditionally trans-human - did not make long journeys and, indeed, during their lifetime, only made the journey to the slaughterhouse, the problem of transport regulation in its various aspects has today become an important component of the legislation concerning the livestock sector. the first need that has emerged is of a health nature, with reference in particular to the spread of communicable diseases. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the welfare of animals during transport is more directly concerned by categories of operators other than farmers, although the latter often suffer the consequences: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are able to obtain the necessary information and to obtain the necessary information. the regulations on the protection of animals during transport, and in particular the regulations we are about to vote on, are based on scientific and technical evidence. in this particular case, we recall the studies following the report of the scientific committee on animal health and welfare, which took account of more than 300 sources and produced 55 recommendations. if we look at the five freedoms mentioned in the bremmer report in 1995, we see that unloading, loading and handling operations have a profound impact on each of these freedoms. in fact, it is proven that this complex of operations causes the highest levels of stress and suffering in animals than all other breeding practices. the proposed time limit and the stopover system are therefore too restrictive and the reasons given in support of the shorter travel times are not justified from a scientific point of view: the committee itself did not indicate this limit in its report. transport can undoubtedly cause a whole range of negative situations for the animal, but it must be analysed in technical terms, both for the benefit of the animals themselves and for the operators.
mr president, i have always maintained that the degree of civilization of a people is also measured by the respect it has for animals. in this connection, i should like to thank mr maat for his excellent report which goes in this direction, for the improvements made in the committee on agriculture which, compared with the proposal presented by the european commission, help to give a more civilised image of our continent in the field of animal rights protection. but it is not just a question of image - of giving, that is, outside the borders of the european union, a more human image - but also, and i would say above all, of substance. the problem has, as has already been said, also health aspects. i would like to highlight a few of them. first, the maximum duration of road transport: given that animals should be moved as little as possible, it would be useful to limit transport to eight hours or a maximum of 500 km per day. this would apply to both animals for slaughter and those for fattening. however, for transport of animals for breeding, exhibition and competition, transport for more than 8 hours should be carried out by special vehicles. what does "special" mean? this means that these vehicles should be equipped with equipment capable of measuring the temperature and humidity in the animal compartment and should have a forced ventilation system that works when the vehicle is stationary. finally, in addition to the right provision for special training for drivers of vehicles intended for transport inadequate guidance, as is known, inevitably causes serious and unnecessary damage and suffering to animals i would like to stress the need for a public veterinarian to be present during loading of animals, to ensure that the rules of transport their fitness to travel, the respect of the minimum guaranteed spaces are respected. for this reason we support in particular amendments nos 121, 122, 123 and 124.
mr president, this is not the first time that this subject has provoked lively debates in this parliament and equally lively and painful decisions. our task is, once again, to try to achieve a genuine balance between the two opposing needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport costs are reduced, and that the transport costs are reduced, and that the transport costs are reduced. in short, the matter deserves all the attention, but in these difficult judgments it is comforting to note, however, the great progress made in technology, which today puts at the disposal of the transporters, of those who are diligent and diligent, increasingly comfortable vehicles, equipped with fans, feeders and drinkers with rehydrating water. these new instruments can make it possible to make trips more comfortable and, above all, longer, but still with stopping periods that can be extended by up to two hours. there is also a debate on the issue of unloading and reloading animals, an operation which does not always achieve its intended purpose of helping the animals to recover from their rest. there is a tendency on the part of farmers and transporters, but also environmentalists, to argue that this type of operation, especially for small animals - think of calves - could cause even greater stress than staying on board, especially on those vehicles i mentioned, equipped with refrigerated air, rehydration water and ad hoc feeders. this too is a proposal which should not be neglected, so as not to make mistakes or to repeat problems which have already been discussed. of course, you would have to be in the head or condition of a calf to be able to decide without making a mistake: but the calf does not think and, more importantly, does not vote.
in writing. - (it) the radical members of parliament voted neither for nor against mr lehne's report on the protection of the parliamentary immunity of marco pannella, because, although we do not question the position of the committee on legal affairs which the european parliament has adopted, we believe that it is necessary to stress the need for the privileges of parliament to be established vis-à-vis the member states in every appropriate forum. it is neither appropriate nor useful that the personal liberty of a member of the european parliament can be restricted - even if it is a judgment which has acquired legal force - without parliament itself being informed and thus possibly taking the necessary steps to make its position known on an assessment of the limits of its members' privileges. although the decision of the parliament seems to be correct in this case - also because the measures restricting mr pannella's personal liberty have been lifted - it must in no way be interpreted as a precedent should a similar case arise in the future.
there is no doubt - and it is trivial to say - that the middle east region is being torn apart by increasingly tragic conflicts. i really believe, and i do so without conforming, that we must also have the courage to say that a strong responsibility for unresolved conflicts lies with the international community and, in the first place, with president bush's military policy and those who, together with president bush, have spoken for that policy. we cannot avoid this problem and i believe, together with the president of the council and commissioner patten, that the palestinian and israeli questions are central, essential. i also think we need to get out of conformity and stop saying that the palestinians do not recognize the state of israel: they recognized it in 1988. is it not true that the palestinian authority does not want to deal with: she says she's willing to negotiate. the one who refuses to negotiate, who actually does other politics is sharon. i think we need to look at this objectively. there is no doubt that the palestinian authority bears responsibility for its failure to stop terrorist acts, but i also believe that we must assess clearly how much of sharon's policy has been a vehicle for the construction of terrorism. commissioner patten is right: this does not mean that terrorist acts in themselves, regardless of the policies that are implemented, should be condemned and suppressed. let's stop telling each other that all cats are gray. there are differences, and those differences are the prohibition and the failure to implement any international law for the palestinians. let us now think about this grand plan, or rather the working paper, that the united states has prepared for the g8 summit in june: it is an arrogant and imperialist project which, although it envisages the building of democracy, democratic processes, preambles, aid and support, does so without discussing it with anyone. we cannot export democracy - apart from that we should start thinking about our own democracies too - because democracy is a continuous process of which we are also deficient, in which we also sometimes have gaps and differences. the greater middle east plan, as it is put, is a plan that will inevitably not help the growth of democracy. it will probably help some accomplices, servants, but it will not help in the construction of arab countries which really need to free themselves from oppressive regimes, which need democracy. please, not with arrogance and imperialism! i think that the european union has made the right choice in opting for the long term and not demanding immediate results by cutting the gordian knot of ancient memory. so we need time to reflect and build relationships. the parliamentary forum in athens is important in this respect: we also saw the differences and the richness, not just the weaknesses, of the arab world. i would like to return to sharon's policy for a moment. in 1973 winston churchill's son asked sharon, "what is the difference between a man and a woman?" what do you think you're doing to the palestinians? he said: don't worry: palestinians can be a pastrami inside the sandwich. we'll crush them inside a sandwich. and that's what he's doing by erecting the wall and preventing freedom of movement. yassin's murder is not the first: 250 extrajudicial executions were carried out and the first victim was tabet tabet, an al fatah peace activist who worked with peace now. but why do we have to repeat these things over and over again? i'm tired of repeating myself sometimes and feeling like everyone has the same responsibilities. the responsibilities are different and i also think that, with this choice, sharon not only killed a leader who - out of charity! - as a woman i consider the height of negativity, but actually knew and wanted to turn a national struggle into a religious struggle. that's the drama! four days ago i was in the mountains of kurdistan and i saw demonstrations in van for sheikh yassin. that is the risk we are taking, that is what president bush has done. finally, i also agree with the proposals made by mr barón crespo on article 2 and the other points.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what is happening in the middle east is very different from what we could have been assessing a few days ago. in fact, i believe that the middle east is coming closer and closer, right into our own home. we see this in speeches with which i could not agree less in certain cases, such as that of mr morgantini, but not only: i believe that the terrorist attacks we are witnessing in europe must be assessed. we cannot suddenly consider only the problem of yassin's murder. i, as a catholic, reject any possibility, one day, of touching a person: not to kill her, but just to touch her. but that's not the point, in my opinion. i believe that if we are to guarantee our citizens peace, tranquility and serenity tomorrow, we must formulate a very different proposal and be guided by very different reasoning. europe as such cannot be the sole voice of a message in terms of european funding for the middle east. europe must put forward a real, concrete proposal. i believe that this can be done, and in this case i call on commissioner patten and the irish presidency of the council to call for a halt to the fighting. i believe that this can give politics a real voice and not just a subject to speculate about in this house. for someone like me who experienced terrorism - a different kind of terrorism, the red one - and saw a bomb inside the house and a brother go out the window, the political words at that time, in the 1980s, meant nothing. the response we got -- me as a young man at the time -- was unique and truly incredible. there was a unity of purpose in pursuing a single objective: the fight against terrorism. i believe that this can only be done if we as europe realise this and at least, at this moment, compile a list of terrorist associations to be evaluated in the international context. everything else, i think, can be considered just talk.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, the european union has thus found its unison again by condemning the killing of sheikh yassin, and some have even gone so far as to present him as a kindly old man and a person with a smell of almost sanctity. today we heard in this parliament the authoritative president barón crespo and others, in my opinion, less authoritative, mention the possibility of calling for the application of article 2, that is to say the suspension of the association agreement with israel, because of the death of sheikh yassin, which is certainly a violation of international law: there's no doubt about that. the european council has devoted five paragraphs to condemning israel for this, but i do not think i have read anything in the text about the hiring of handicapped children for a few euros to be turned into human bombs with ten kilos of explosives. we radicals have called for the suspension of the association agreements - commissioner patten knows this very well - by invoking article 2, which unfortunately we have never, or almost never, put into practice for dozens of countries, many of them in the region. i think it's important to keep in mind this element: if we think it is right to condemn israel, a democratic country - by giving it, say, a license as a democratic country - for which we can demand respect for international law, but on the assumption that it is useless to ask, for example, other countries in the arab world to do the same, we are making a big mistake and we are continuing to babble without having an effective role in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the idea itself, not the export of democracy, so much to ridicule and trivialize the idea, similar to what we tried to achieve in a certain way in vitro, long before the american proposal, with the famous sana'a conference on democracy and human rights in the middle east, is the winning idea: either we anchor political democracy or, like europe, we join ourselves, of course, but with a strong proposal in the coming months, consulting the arab countries, having an approach that seeks to involve them - not just at the governmental level but also at the civil society level - in a strong and big proposal to promote those societies, that democracy that is required by those societies to achieve development, as the undp has told us. i think this is the way to solve the israeli-palestinian issue or to include it in the overall solution. in conclusion, i welcome the fact that finally great leaders of the european left are recognizing, as we have been saying for many years, that the accession of israel and palestine to the european union is another important path to a lasting solution to the middle east question.
mr president, the most accurate and thorough analysis of the limits of the development of democracy in the arab world and its consequences for the development of those societies came from the first report of the united nations development programme, drawn up in 2002. the second report was recently published and it looks in depth at the lack of education and training, the serious limitations in cultural production, technology and research. the most significant fact is that the team working on this project is composed entirely -- i repeat, entirely -- of arab researchers. the strategy for the greater middle east, which the bush administration has drawn up, is largely inspired by those analyses, with a limitation which i would call capital, namely that of indicating changes and reforms irrespective of any relationship with the arab and islamic world. this approach risks feeding the idea of an alleged superiority of the so-called western civilization over the entire cultural and religious tradition of the arab world. this idea is at the heart of the feeling of humiliation, so widespread in these countries, that terrorist groups are speculating on, hoping to in turn fuel hatred towards the west. the second point i would like to make is about the relations between the bush administration and the sharon government. the arab world cannot tolerate the double standard: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the american administration, which is so inflexible as to have inflicted two wars on iraq and a decade of embargo, is not moving a finger today in relation to what, just yesterday in geneva, was described by the rapporteur of the un commission on human rights as a humanitarian catastrophe. the concern is that the method chosen by the us administration and its indifference to the middle east conflict risk having the opposite effect, namely that of giving even more credit, in the eyes of public opinion in those countries, to non-democratic governments and political classes responsible for the misuse of resources, widespread corruption, the lack of democracy and fundamental freedoms, starting with that of women, in short, for the crisis and decline of those societies. europe has a role and a responsibility in all this, but also a non-improvised history of relations in the mediterranean area, based on a different method, namely that of partnership. this strategy has recently been reinforced by the neighbourhood policy in response to the enlargement to the east. so the point today is not to question all this, but to open a relationship with the bush administration, with the arab league and in collaboration with the plo, which makes the point of view of europe heard and does not suffer the initiatives of the american administration.
mr president, europe is strongly committed to peace but is deeply frustrated by the latest terrorist acts. for it, the mediterranean is a crucial area, a historic challenge, and until it is transformed into an area of peace, development, democracy and stability, europe will unfortunately not be able to realise its full potential. today the conflict between israel and palestine is closing every window of hope, and its intensification is certainly not facilitating the fight against international terrorism, but is actually feeding it ideologically. but the future of peace in this area requires greater responsibility and we must commit all our forces, our political dignity, our financial and human resources to resuming the negotiating process. the athens forum was therefore a very important step, but it is not a question of being partisan of either side; the way forward, even now that hopes for peace seem almost dead, remains to work towards a clear goal: two states, side by side, israel and palestine, living in peace and security without prejudice and with respect for human rights. this is why europe must work in constant and open dialogue with the entire arab world.
council. mr president, i will be very brief. i should like to thank the members who have participated. this has been a useful discussion, and it has also made clear that there exists a fundamental consensus amongst us on the need for the european union to exert maximum effort on the issues that have been raised. we all agree that the european union needs to raise the level of its engagement within the region. i agree particularly with members as to the importance of intensive consultation with the countries involved in the region. the drive and the initiative to address these challenges and to implement the necessary reforms must come from the region itself. it is easy to be in despair when you see, as we have seen, horror heaped on horror, misery on top of misery. however, the reality is that the union must be involved in pushing forward where it can to try and create at least a space in which peace can be created. the union must work in partnership with the region to this end, to help to meet all of these challenges. a lasting and comprehensive settlement is set out in the roadmap, and the roadmap is the only way forward. it was mentioned that the suspension of the association agreement is a way forward in the region. i think that discussion and pressure would produce some progress. in the interim report on the strategic partnership endorsed by the council last week, the european union has established a set of guiding principles for its engagement in the region. the presidency is committed to developing the strategic partnership on the basis of partnership and dialogue with all the countries in the region. once again, i should like to thank members for their thoughtful and incisive contributions.
- thank you, mr roche. despite the competent appeals and the quotations from shakespeare, homer and odysseus, commissioner patten has informed me that he does not wish to answer. this meeting is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in kosovo.
mr president, the new tragedies in kosovo demonstrate, as we have repeatedly said and reminded this parliament and the council, that peace and democracy are not something that has been achieved definitively even on the european continent, but are objectives that need to be reaffirmed every day. it is not only peace and democracy that are in question, but also the dignity of the person and respect for the common cultural heritage. the destruction of monasteries in kosovo, which was carried out with the sole aim of destroying the symbols of a culture that has the same roots as the european union, shows that international terrorism and the guerrilla warfare it unleashes in some countries are based on a specific political plan, against which our inaction is not only a sign of dangerous weakness but also a harbinger of new tragedies. the union must step up its presence in kosovo, calling on the albanian, serbian and montenegrin authorities to preserve the rights of minorities and to protect the sites of serbian orthodox culture. it is pointless to have mobilized, and rightly so, against the destruction of the buddhas in afghanistan by the taliban if so many orthodox churches and monuments - that is, belonging to a culture which is the expression of the values we strive to preserve - are being destroyed in the guilty silence of intellectuals and politicians. the precious frescoes which have adorned the temples and monasteries of the balkan orthodox church for centuries are the heritage of all humanity and must be safeguarded and preserved from any risk of destructive madness, as we have stressed in our resolution. the italian foreign minister has done well in making more men available to nato to reinforce the contingent responsible for maintaining order and guaranteeing security. the un should, for its part, provide for a programme of reconstruction of destroyed property and define the broad lines of kosovo's final status; but we also want a stronger european presence, and for this reason we recall that a european army, as called for by the convention, is an objective that can no longer be postponed.
mr president, commissioner, i think that the speeches by my colleagues, especially those of my group but also others, have put the spotlight on the fundamental problem we have in this report. the extension of the right to information is not in question, which we all support, of course. the convention is not in question, because that is not what it is about, as has been said, since it was signed. the commission has tried to make the convention viable, and this is well documented by the speeches of some colleagues and the submission of amendments: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. i am convinced that this reason stems from a healthy concern, from the good intentions of the commissioner and his colleagues, but we must be very vigilant in this respect, because we risk embarking on an action to delegitimize our democratic institutions, which are the elected representatives, the governors, the assemblies at municipal and local level, in short, that system of democratic guarantees which are the only sovereign ones able to represent the interests of the citizens in their entirety. now, the fact that we want to pay special attention to the environment is right and proper and it is absolutely desirable to involve all citizens. but be careful not to go beyond the limit of the so-called special legislation: when i hear mr schörling speak of no time or geographical limits, the risk of creating counter-powers becomes serious, and if that risk were to materialise in tomorrow's final text, i think we would do well, as some colleagues have said, to vote against it.
mr president, it has been said that this european council was one of renewed cohesion in the wake of the terrible tragedy in madrid, which makes it so clear that we are all potential victims of blind terrorism today, where blasphemous criminals manipulate a great religion for their own bloody ends. we hope that this is indeed the case, but after reading the conclusions and hearing president ahern and, above all, after looking at the actions of the member states and the commission's proposals on asylum and the protection of the personal data of its citizens, we here express our deep concern. we call on president prodi and the council to take account of the resolution which the european parliament will adopt today on this part. it speaks, gentlemen, a language very different from yours. europe must and can choose a different path to fight terrorism than the united states with its lies, its arms race, its pre-emptive wars and its guantanamo: the european union is committed to a path of democratic stability, respect for human rights and the rejection of exceptional measures as the preconditions for action on the international scene and for cooperation in the field of internal security. what do we see today? we see the pathetic inability to cooperate between the administrations of the member states, which hide data and information from each other, as javier solana points out; we see that the commission is making unsustainable and surprising proposals on asylum, which clearly violate international conventions, and is proposing that we give away personal data of its citizens to mysterious us administrative bodies. we are seeing yet another nice gentleman, mr de vries, put in charge of a working party of indefinite contours and again totally intergovernmental, while no clear idea emerges of a programme of action based on common, democratically approved rules. it is now clear that we do not really want to cooperate with the police and the secret services in the fight against terrorism, but we want to set up a system of general surveillance of passengers and citizens, under the illusion that this means controlling everything. but the seriousness of the fight against terrorism is also measured by the european union's ability to give itself a constitution, as we all said here today: a constitution that can deliver on the promises of efficiency and democracy. the positive spirit of this european council, however, does not remove our concerns, which have been reiterated today by mr ahern, in his ambiguous message on the famous, indeed infamous, 82 points of the italian presidency, which sometimes emerge as the basis of the negotiations and sometimes are forgotten. if that is the case - and i ask you to tell me something about it - then the new constitution will be just a pale and untenable copy of the nice treaties. the european council has spoken a great deal about the economy and growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only thing we know for sure is that the environment is not a priority, and that is extremely negative for us. it is not surprising that in a situation of stalemate and in the absence of a real concrete plan of action and political leadership, it was decided to do something typical of socialist traditions - even though the majority of governments today are of the centre-right - namely to set up another working group, chaired by another distinguished gentleman, mr wim kok. never pick a woman, by the way! i think it would be wise. our objective - i want to stress this - is, however, common. the european economy needs to be brought out of the vicious circle of low growth without jobs. but we are once again expressing our scepticism about an approach which this european council and, alas, the european parliament in its resolution, which we cannot support on this part, have endorsed, which makes competitiveness an absolute dogma. but who do we have to be competitive against? ask the voters who have just spoken in france and spain, ask them what they think about the systems and the working conditions and welfare in the united states and in the developing countries. we'll realize that the strategy we need is something else entirely: the european union is perfectly capable of implementing such a strategy. of course, this would be possible if we decided to get out of a stability pact that is now dead but is well present in the rhetoric, if we decided to exploit the potential for sustainable growth that we continue to leave aside, if we decided to invest in sectors of the future, such as research, clean energy, eco-tourism and public transport. these are our demands, the path we ask you to take to revive growth. more than bridges and highways!
as regards the coordinator for counter-terrorism, mr president, i believe that the shortcut to cooperation between national bureaucracies in the absence of democratic and judicial control is an illusion, just as for europol and eurojust it is not just a matter of individual rights and freedoms, although serious and serious, but also a matter of effectiveness: in fact, you failed to give real powers to this coordinator of the fight against terrorism. so this is not consistent with those who want a more effective struggle, a more rapid reaction, who want not less democracy - which is the illusion of all bureaucracies - but more democracy and more law. if the creation of mr antiterrorism is to be the paradigm of the new constitution we want, a modest increase in power at the cost of giving up democracy and the rule of law is not the way we want to go. one last word on iraq: the european union invokes the un, but it invokes it to cover its own incapacity. the terrorists have a political agenda, a political objective, the withdrawal of europe or what is left of europe from iraq. we would have liked the european union to have had the strength to choose, to propose, to decide the opposite of what the terrorists want.
mr president, europe has awakened to the issue of terrorism, although it is still bitter to see that this is happening after the slaughter of workers, young people and ordinary people in madrid by the butchers of al-qaeda. it is surprising, however, that in the speeches this morning and in the 18 pages of the declaration on the fight against terrorism, there are no explicit references to this. i had to wait for my flemish colleague mr claeys to speak before hearing him speak bluntly about the islamic danger, fundamentalism and terrorism of this kind. i shall simply point out two aspects to my colleagues, the first of which is a moral imperative. if we want to face the memory of the victims of this terrorism, we must pay attention to the problem of european union aid to the palestinian authority and the direction that this aid takes, so that it does not end up financing terrorists, suicide bombers or even those purely social activities, such as the settlements, which are in fact schools of fundamentalism and extremism, as well as the activity carried out in european mosques. these days prayers have been held, not only in rome but throughout europe, in hundreds and perhaps thousands of mosques, for sheikh yassin, the theoretician and propagator of kamikaze and murderous terrorism.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure of welcoming oleg viktorovich morozov, chairman of the russian duma delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee and deputy chairman of the duma, and alexandre nikolaevich belousov and guennadi alexandrovich gorbunov, members of the federal council, who have taken their seats in the official box. the delegation is in strasbourg to meet our delegation to the parliamentary cooperation committee for various meetings. i would like to welcome them and thank them for being here today. (applause from the centre)
as we have a high-level delegation from the russian federation duma in this parliament today, i want to express - and i believe not only on my own behalf - our indignation and disgust at the policy of the russian government in chechnya. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr schulz, this is a matter on which i believe parliament has expressed its agreement. many of us agree with you. the president has been informed of this, since you spoke of it at the beginning of the partsession, and i am therefore sure that some effort will be made in that direction.
- mr barón crespo, all these requests will be forwarded to the president of parliament, mr pat cox, with the greatest possible precision.
- ladies and gentlemen, i will pass on all the comments made to the president of parliament, pat cox. i personally agree with many of them and i am sure that an effort will be made to clarify these matters further.
mr president, on this subject the european commission has chosen an illegitimate procedure, which sequesters the powers of this parliament by making a real transfer of european sovereignty to the united states of america. i therefore ask the commission at this point whether, instead of pretending to have us vote, it does not think it would be better to leave the matter to the only democratic institution with decisionmaking power involved in this matter, namely the congress of the united states of america.
in the case of the european parliament, the council has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a council framework decision on the european arrest warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. as with the european arrest warrant, we simply do not believe that the integration of criminal law and the application of the principle of mutual recognition of criminal measures and decisions between member states can be achieved without at the same time strengthening security and the right of defence in europe. the commission had promised - as the european parliament has repeatedly requested - to adopt a framework decision on the protection of the rights of suspects and accused persons, but this proposal is currently on hold. in a situation such as the one described, we would have preferred the solution of rejecting the proposal in question or making its entry into force conditional on the adoption of the framework decision on the protection of rights, so as to ensure full respect for the guarantees of criminal procedure which are an essential part of the effective protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in europe.
in the light of the recent events in the united states, the commission has decided to withdraw its proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. the decision states that the commission's decision to assess the us protection of privacy as adequate in relation to the processing of passenger data collected in european territory is incorrect, that the commission has exceeded its implementing powers and that it calls on the commission to withdraw its decision. the resolution also states that parliament has the possibility of referring the matter to the court of justice to determine whether the draft international agreement with the united states is legitimate. in our opinion, today the european parliament has courageously - and despite the strong pressure from the commission, national governments and the united states - played its full role as the representative of the european citizens and as the defender of their freedoms and rights, as well as of democracy and the rule of law.
- the votes are in. (the sitting was suspended at 1.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that the process of croatia's application for membership of the european union has now moved forward with a concrete perspective of opening negotiations. i can only agree with what mrs pack said and confirm how much croatia is trying to get closer to the european union. i have also been following developments in croatia since 1995, first as head of delegation and then as chairman of the eu/slovenia joint parliamentary committee, and i have found that the steadily increasing efforts have been moving in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the new government of ivo sanader has really set milestones in this area, especially as regards minority policy and the coexistence of ethnic groups. let me say this as a representative of a minority. this form of action by the new government and the prime minister in particular commands very, very much respect. it could also serve as an example for other candidate countries and be shown to be exemplary in terms of new access and openness between majority and minority peoples of whatever kind. the international arbitration process has also helped to ensure that positive considerations prevail in the case of border disputes or border disputes in the gulf of piran. i believe that this is the right way to go, since both countries have legitimate interests, and so this issue need not be a stumbling block anymore. i would like to thank mr baltas for his excellent report and hope that the commission will do its part to open the negotiations.
mr president, i find the baltas report very balanced and logical in its main lines. the climate has become much calmer - which is very important in those parts - in the last period. president mesic in belgrade apologizes to those who had suffered pain or harm at the hands of croatian citizens. the serbian president, in turn, apologizes for the evil acts committed by serbian citizens against croats. it is easier to achieve reconciliation through these gestures, even though only a few years have passed since a very bitter and very hard war. prime minister sanader visits the serbian minority during the christmas holidays and then talks to the italian minority in italian: all this would not have been possible years ago. the same harshness is no longer present in relations with slovenia. and this is the context that helps resolve disputes about arrest warrants and the return of refugees. if this is the context, then one can also reason about the unilateral decision of croatia to declare a part of its coast as an ecological and biological zone. in his report, mr baltas states that this unilateral decision by croatia has hindered the practice of dialogue and consultation, which is one of the cornerstones of dealing with problems of regional impact. there are, of course, difficulties in zagreb's initiating its economic and political reforms. let us remember that between 2000 and 2002 inflation fell from 7.4 per cent to 2.3 per cent, and we know what that means. however, on a scale published by the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung, which measures the performance of the candidate countries, this year's and future ones, the first candidate countries to join the european union in may total a score of 80%, while croatia is at 50%. so there is still a lot of work to be done. i think there is a danger - if it was mentioned earlier - of seeing people disappointed: the european union is perhaps disappointed that croatia is not joining the union immediately, but mr baltas points out that it will take a lot of perseverance and a lot of time for croatia to have the means to ensure the consolidation of the rule of law and democracy.
mr president, i also welcome the work done by mrs boumediene, which was also very important for the subsequent debate in the committee on civil liberties. i want to stress one thing: the commission has been working on this for years. we are witnessing a persistent violation of the same rights, and we are still having the same debate without getting to the crucial point raised by mrs swiebel. does the commission and the council intend to make respect for fundamental human rights a genuine policy? we are waiting for an answer to that. but if the answer were that article 7 of the treaty on european union already exists, we already know that that is a false answer. although the conditions for its application exist, article 7 of the treaty on european union has never been applied and will never be applied in an institutional context in which the european commission, for obvious reasons, will never have the strength to rebel against one of the member states. so, given the repeated violations over time and the reports and the lack of sanctions, it is inevitable that next year we will see this picture worsened once again. to all this must be added the so-called anti-terrorism initiatives. all the initiatives taken by the council, or which the council is planning to take, in recent times, although aimed at combating terrorism, have in fact as their only practical consequence the restriction of the freedoms of citizens. as regards the only really useful initiative, namely the creation of a european intelligence service, we have read statements by the italian minister of the interior that this is not possible because each national agency is jealous of its own data. if the european union is thus defending its citizens against the threat of terrorism, how can it ever have the strength and capacity to defend its citizens against violations committed by the member states themselves against them?
mr president, it is true that this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is likely to become a routine affair, and so, in order not to repeat what has already been said at other times or by other colleagues, i shall focus my speech on three main points: the first, inevitable, is family. i strongly reject, not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of the european people's party, paragraphs 59 and 60, in which it is once again, and repeatedly, proposed that de facto couples, including those formed by persons of the same sex, be legally recognized. we also reject amendment no 157, which adds to this demand the right to legal adoption. it seems that the lesson that has long since been learned on this subject is that it is useless to try to violate the european treaty, which clearly gives the member states the power, the competence and the sovereignty to decide on this sensitive matter. a second subject i would like to address is that of freedom of the press and pluralism, a subject which also animated the debate in the committee on civil liberties yesterday. once again, in paragraph 35, in a phraseology which is even inappropriate for this house, it is said that the notion of pluralism is trampled on with the greatest cynicism in italy. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the matter. we therefore firmly reject amendments nos 84, 85 and 86, which, following this misunderstanding, end up by placing italy at the centre of the target, as if all the problems of information were concentrated in our country. it is true that we start from shared assumptions such as the criteria of pluralism, freedom, and access to the press for all, and then we arrive at conclusions so limited to the italian case alone that they end up disqualifying even all the noble assumptions. it is enough to read the report of reporters without borders, which is certainly not part of the organization of the president of the italian council but, as is well known, is an organization of left-wing journalists. they carried out an investigation in italy in april 2003, which they published, and the conclusions reached are very different from those which were set out in an incredible report yesterday, with even more incredible amendments in the committee on civil liberties, starting with the conflict of interest which exists, it is true, in italy but which is about to be resolved in these very days, i might say in these very hours, in parliament, the only place where this problem can be seriously discussed. there is a reform that is about to come into play, a reform that the italian left, during its seven years in government, has not had the courage or the ability even to propose. reporters without borders says that the press in italy is i quote, i didn't invent it free and pluralist, even if weakened by the hegemony of television. so there is no talk, as happened yesterday in the committee on civil liberties, of censorship or media tyranny. the political orientation of the public and private news media is described as 'basically balanced'; only one explicit criticism: the departure from the video of characters like biagi, santoro and luttazzi, of whom i guarantee for those who did not know them, nobody in italy has nostalgia, except perhaps the political bosses who pay them. a final point to recommend, after many no's, the adoption of amendment no 199, tabled by the undersigned together with my colleague mr borghezio, on compensation to italian military internees for forced labour in germany from 1943 to 1945. only the italians were not compensated. we demand that germany, although seriously behind schedule, compensate these italian citizens who, unwillingly, worked hard in the factories and the camps. i would ask mr schroeder to hurry, however, because the youngest is 80 years old, and every year after that 10 per cent die.
mr president, we did not ask for this debate simply in order to tell the world bank what it should do. we also need to know the position of the council, in which 15 member states – all playing a very important role in world bank decision-making – are represented. we want to ask the council what position it is going to take on this extractive industry report and whether or not it intends to coordinate the position of the member states in this respect. in the mr roche's interesting remarks i did not hear the answer to this question; the very reason we asked for this debate. we are convinced that we must have parliamentary scrutiny of what the world bank does, and also that we, as a european union institution, need to know what our member states do when they are in the world bank. so the world bank is not something outside this institution or outside your institution, mr roche. mr vitorino said very clearly that he thought, and that the commission thought, that the most important recommendation had to be supported. i repeat: i would like to know what the position of the council is, if any, and if there is any intention of having any kind of discussion on this point. we think that discussion of this issue in the council is absolutely crucial for two reasons. firstly, because the conclusions of the report say very clearly that investing in the oil, mining and gas sectors does not in itself reduce poverty. sometimes, as you heard in the report, it is detrimental, and this is also of importance to the european union. secondly, we are convinced that if the world bank's objective is to reduce poverty and alleviate the exclusion of indigenous populations and poor people, we cannot continue to support a method of financing a project that is detrimental from this point of view. so please, mr roche, tell us what you are going to do.
madam president, the chilling reports coming from mozambique, and in particular from the nampula area, where the unexplained disappearance of children can be used to conceal a shameful trafficking in organs, may seem incredible because they offend the sensibilities of every human being. but unfortunately the holocaust also seemed incredible, yet it happened with the goodwill of those who had the means to know or to intervene and did not do so. after this terrible experience, we must now commit ourselves to stopping this shameful trade with all the instruments at the disposal of the international community. we must raise our voices as individuals and as members of parliament against those who are conniving or who do not oppose with sufficient determination and in favour of those who, risking or losing their lives, denounce and try to stop the new slaughter of innocents. it is civil and political society, not just religious society, that must take up the challenge. questions have already been put, but that is not enough. all the great people of this world who share the power to influence the destiny of so many have an ethical responsibility to take concrete and urgent measures to safeguard the safety of children and the people who protect them.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr coelho, for his report. this proposal for a regulation follows the path set in 1999 by the directive on vehicle registration documents, with a view to combating the illicit traffic in stolen vehicles, and should improve the functioning of the internal market by providing vehicle registration services with better access to the largest european database of stolen vehicles, namely the schengen information system. we all know that there are very important financial interests at stake, because every year millions of cars are registered in the member states of the union and billions of these billions are stolen. the proposal also aims to improve the safety of citizens and thus the area of freedom, security and justice by introducing more effective mechanisms to combat vehicle theft. it provides in particular for the possibility that, before registering a vehicle, the national services responsible may, under certain conditions, consult the sis database of stolen vehicles and registration documents and check whether the vehicle in question has already been registered in another of the states signatory to the schengen agreement. this information will make it more difficult for thieves to sell stolen vehicles in another 'schengen state' and at the same time increase the chances of victims being able to recover the lost vehicle. the authorities currently lack the resources to verify the provenance of the over one million vehicles registered each year. the proposal under discussion will allow systematic access to the database, and thus to search for vehicles and registration documents, and to have access to it will have to comply with a number of common rules on transparency and a number of principles on data protection. the rules on the protection of personal data shall be laid down in the sis ii legal instruments. in the interests of data protection, it has been proposed to give different access to public services and to private services responsible for vehicle registration. the officials of the responsible public services should have the right to query the schengen database directly, while, despite performing a function specific to the public administration, when private services carry out this activity, they will have restricted access to it, through the police, like the rest of the existing vehicle registration services. i would like to thank the rapporteur and parliament once again for the work they have done.
mr president, i thank the commission representative and the rapporteur for being very clear in their views. it is inevitable that when databases are created containing vast amounts of information, there will be a temptation to use them for a wide variety of purposes. this can be useful and legitimate under certain conditions, in particular in compliance with the fundamental right of citizens to the protection of personal data, enshrined in article 8 of the charter of rights of the union. the need has now arisen for vehicle registration services to be able to obtain all the necessary information collected in the schengen information system in order to verify that the vehicles are not stolen and that the applicant's documents are authentic. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. even with these limitations, the proposal for a regulation remains useful. what i do not agree with is that the information is not provided by the police and customs authorities responsible for storing and processing schengen data, but is directly acquired by the public registration offices with direct access to the sis databases. such access by the many vehicle registration offices in the 25 member states would seriously jeopardise the protection of personal data entered into the schengen system. the nature of the services responsible for the safety of citizens, the rules and controls to which they are subject, the purposes for which they may use the data they come to know are very different from those of the administrative offices, public or not, which deal with the registration of vehicles. moreover, there is no apparent need to allow direct access to schengen data, since it would not be permitted to the same registration offices which, according to the rules of the different countries, are private rather than public. this would lead to a disparity of rules which would increase confusion rather than improve the effectiveness of the measure. it is therefore better to regulate the use of schengen data by registration services, allowing everyone equal indirect access, which avoids risks of abuse and respects the principle of proportionality.
mr president, the oostlander report deserves our full respect. many, if not all, of the speeches have highlighted the fundamental problem, which is that of respect for human rights and the principles of freedom on which our union is founded. so the question is: turkey has the cards in order from this point of view? we say no. in this connection i should like to point out that a very serious incident took place yesterday in the chamber of the italian parliament. the chairman of the lega nord-padania group, mr cè, was prevented from speaking because he dared to say a phrase which was censored. this is a very serious precedent. i ask the european parliament, the guardian of the freedom of all the peoples of europe, to stand by the right of the legitimate representatives of the people of padania - who have no less rights than the kurds - to speak freely, especially in the parliaments of a country which is a founding member of the european union. it is a very serious precedent of censorship, i repeat, which seems more typical of turkish democracy than of a country that is certainly democratic and a founder of the european union, against a political force that wants autonomy and federalism, and therefore against statism. this is not racist towards anyone, least of all towards the romans. against "thieving rome" means against centralism, against those who violate our freedom. and then against the thieving rome, for the same reasons we say no to turkey's entry into europe. against thieving rome, against thieving rome! here we can say it freely and no one, thank god, gags me: against thieving rome! they hear it in rome: padania is against thieving rome, it is for freedom. long live the freedom! long live the european union! long live the principle of self-determination of peoples!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the subject of turkey, i would like to say that in my view the copenhagen criteria are a fundamental prerequisite and that the copenhagen criteria, as far as the protection of human and minority rights is concerned, are not really being fulfilled in turkey in the form in which we understand them and in which we should understand them as a community of values. i am referring here to the kurds, but also to the religious minorities. mr ceyhun, who spoke before me, i did not understand his speech in several respects. i think the colleague was certainly not just tolerated. we had a very good neighborly relationship. we are neighbours here in strasbourg. and this neighbourhood is expandable, and i believe that a privileged partnership represents a third way between members and non-members in the european union and those who have a privileged relationship with the european union and yet need to have a perspective for the future. we have different ideas about the future of the european union. we believe that this europe, this european union, must have its own borders and that we must conclude special agreements with our immediate neighbours. in this sense, i believe that turkey, for historical, geographical and cultural reasons, does not fit as a direct member of the european union, and i hope that this third path will be followed with the same courage. the commission and the council should also develop more imagination here and not simply point out that the way is already set.
- we are now voting on the proposal to postpone the debate on the report on the european capital of culture until the april partsession. (parliament adopted the proposal)
- the conference of presidents met this morning. i do not know whether the question you raise was discussed, but in any case your speech has been heard and your proposal will be carefully considered.
mr president, i join mr tannock in asking that the report approved yesterday in the working group on funds for palestine be put on the agenda.
- we now proceed to the vote.
- the council is not present, and therefore we cannot hear its views. we shall now vote on the rapporteur's proposal to put the legislative resolution to the vote. (parliament rejected the initiative and adopted the referral back to committee)
commission. mr president, i would like to express the commission's disappointment at the position proposed in mr lisi's report and voted. in fact our proposal implements the political guidelines in the mediterranean action plan which was welcomed by parliament and adopted by council. several of the critical comments made are simply not correct. i would like to make a few points here. firstly, the commission proposal does give flexibility to member state managers when deciding on different options to manage fish stocks in the mediterranean, so we do take into consideration the characteristics of mediterranean fisheries. the proof is that national administrations can establish national management plans and these plans may allow derogations from certain common provisions precisely because of the different situations in different parts of the mediterranean. secondly, we are well aware that the fisheries sector is opposed to our proposal. we have received similar reactions to the recovery plan for cod in the northern waters of the community. the difference here, however, was that both the sector and the european parliament had been open to dialogue with the commission and we adopted an acceptable plan in the end. and it is precisely this spirit we also need for the southern waters. thirdly, the alleged poor consultation of the sector does not correspond to the truth. the sector has been consulted on several occasions before and after we presented our proposal. fourthly, the commission agrees with parliament that we need to work with other mediterranean countries, and that is why we took the initiative for the venice conference in november 2003 when the mediterranean countries, ranging from morocco to lebanon and slovenia, agreed with the european union that we must agree on common measures in the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to preserve our fish stocks. finally, i would like to make one thing very clear. the disastrous social and economic costs mr lisi mentioned in his report will be the result if we do not take prompt and effective action as proposed by us, because the state of many mediterranean fish stocks is already quite poor. we cannot, therefore, accept your request to withdraw our proposal, because there are neither scientific nor political justifications for parliament's request. (mixed reactions)
- the commission confirms its proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, the president has already spoken about the appropriateness of the commission's answers. i do not speak, i only note that the position of complacency and unwillingness to dialogue with the citizens, which we modestly represent, is confirmed, and therefore does not want to understand this message that we continue to send: be reasonable and be open to dialogue. i would simply ask, in accordance with rule 68 (3), that the motion for a resolution be withheld and referred back to committee. then, in the time that the legislature allows, we will address the issue as soon as possible.
- there is no need for a vote, since the rules of procedure state that the report is automatically referred back to committee if the commission does not withdraw its proposal.
- i am familiar with the text of this council statement, mr dehousse. if i may make a comment - although as president i am usually only the one who gives the floor - i found it very strange that in an official document of the european council the last two points were dealing with an internal housing issue. as a parliament we should somehow make the council aware that this is really strange in our opinion.
- the votes are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i am referring to the report by mrs boogerd-quaak, on which the committee on civil liberties was convened at 7 p.m. today. i have had occasion, mr president, to write to you before easter and to put to you a number of points which, from a procedural and regulatory point of view, i believe have not been consistent with our rules of procedure. i was just pointing out that it is your responsibility as president, under rule 19 (2), to verify that the report is in accordance with our rules of procedure. specifically - and i am speaking here on behalf of mr nino gemelli, who was unable to be here but who i know wrote to you last week - the committee on petitions was not even consulted, that is to say, it was not asked for an opinion on the report. we have a clear idea of the absence of a legal basis and, again, we have a very particular situation, since this report essentially refers to a document of inquiry which was produced by a third party not authorized according to the usual procedures for our parliament, a document which, moreover, declares itself to be entirely provisional, the situation of eight countries out of twenty-five having been examined and the comparisons which it is expected to be able to make at the end of june not having been completed. i therefore ask you, mr president, to refer this report back to the committee responsible so that the committee on petitions can make a substantial contribution. i would remind you that this is not the responsibility of the house. the verification of compliance with the rules of procedure is the prerogative of the president of the institution and cannot be subject to a majority vote. you understand that at the heart of democracy, and even more so of a parliament which is the ultimate expression of this democracy, it is unthinkable that by majority votes the obligations laid down in the rules of procedure can be exceeded. (applause) i would like to thank
i agree with you, mr president. i think it is appropriate for the committee to examine this, but above all - and i say this also on behalf of mr gemelli - to have answers to your assessment, mr president, on the basis of the information which the services will provide you with.
mr president, since you are going to have to carry out this important review, i would ask that it be carried out with the utmost respect for the wishes of the committee responsible. we have already had major problems with the tabling office, not least because of a report by my colleague mr voggenhuber which will be discussed shortly. i therefore urge you to take careful account of the political will expressed by the committee responsible after a difficult debate on the question of the discretion and admissibility of the items. i would also like to say that, as regards the number of amendments, they are overwhelmingly from one political group: i am therefore wondering whether this political group will not resort to the obstructionist manoeuvres which we shall be dealing with today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to close the debate on the boogerd-quaak report. the question is not whether the committee's political assessment is correct. the question is whether there have been violations of the rules of procedure or not. since freedom of expression is an important issue, which is very dear to us, we would like to see this subject seriously addressed and discussed further. i would therefore be in favour - and i am speaking of course on behalf of my group - of referring the report back to committee.
mr president, i find the claims of mr podestà and mr fiori, who claim that there is a breach of the rules of procedure because the committee on petitions has not delivered its opinion, to be totally unfounded. that is a completely unfounded assertion. the committee on petitions itself sent us the first petition under article 7 of the treaty for our consideration. the conference of presidents has authorized the committee on civil liberties to draw up this own-initiative report: it is a political report, not a legislative one. two other petitions for information have been sent to us, but we are not deciding on them. we decide for ourselves, and the committees to be consulted for an opinion were already decided by the conference of presidents, which instructed the committee on civil liberties to draw up this report. he said: i would like to ask you to make this report and to hear committees x, y and z, not the committee on petitions. it will be a matter of revoking the visas of those petitions which have been improperly sent to us, but there is no mistake of rules; i think that the presidency itself will be able to assess it without any need for referral back to committee. the committee on civil liberties is simply instructed, under rule 130a of the rules of procedure, to verify something which is obvious: i would like to see whether one tenth of the committee supports any of the 330 amendments tabled for obstructionist purposes. obviously, since the amendments were tabled by the ppe group, they will have the support of that tenth of the members and so we, having carried out this verification, will have fulfilled the task entrusted to us by the president. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, this is a particularly complicated session, but unfortunately the world is also complicated. our role as the 'eye of the international community' requires us to be present and to express our opinion on the bloody events taking place in the middle east, because the european union, represented by its member states, is not able to do so in a sufficiently strong and decisive way. we are asking for this statement on the situation in the middle east to be put on the agenda, because we want to know how the council and the commission will behave in a situation where - there is no doubt - there are governments that continue to throw gasoline on the fire to influence this conflict. i would also remind you, mr president, that we have recently adopted a resolution on this subject, and a paragraph in particular in which we call on the council and the commission to consider the possibility of taking action by applying article 2 of the association agreement with israel, if it continues to implement the policy of extrajudicial killings. we think it is worthwhile at this point to open a debate in parliament and also to take a decision, but above all to hear what the commission and the council have to say.
mr president, for more than a year this parliament has considered, by a majority, albeit with the opposite view of the epp, that this claim to read the formula oblige airlines operating in europe to process the data of european citizens contained in their computerised booking systems as required by the us customs protection bureau under us law constitutes a serious breach of the fundamental right to data protection of european citizens. and there is no american legislation either, since there is no american law protecting private data. we are therefore obliged to process our data, the data of our citizens, as required by an administrative body in a third country. we therefore want an international agreement that gives rights. this controversy has been going on for a year and the commission has just now repeated to us that the directive has not been amended. but that is a breach of the directive! that is the view of the majority of this parliament. that is why we are asking for a preliminary opinion from the court of justice. i think we should not even wait for the latest news tomorrow because, i repeat, we have been going on for over a year. the only way to resolve the question of whether or not a right contained in the treaty has been infringed is to ask the court of justice to do so in advance, before the treaty is concluded, so that we do not have to annul a treaty already concluded, which would make our relations more difficult. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i do not want to repeat all the things that have already been said by the honourable members who have preceded me. the commission has repeatedly said that this is the best deal that could be wrested from the us government, but it must be said that the longer the discussions go on, the worse things get for the citizens of europe. we now know that this agreement not only violates the treaties but also allows these data to be transferred to third countries and processed by them, thus aggravating what was the beginning of the discussions on the first part of the treaty. as has already been said, this parliament has repeatedly spoken out against this agreement. of course, he did not specifically vote for referral to the court of justice, but that, in my view, is a corollary, a necessary consequence. we therefore ask that parliament be able to consult a third authority, a very respected and authoritative one, such as the court of justice, and so be able to decide freely whether to say yes or no to this agreement.
mr president, i too do not want to repeat what i have already said, because my group shares the statements made by mr watson, mrs paciotti and mr di lello. we are in agreement with the fact that we must continue on our way, because i do not think that commissioner bolkestein's statements are satisfactory and i am even a little surprised that he has not taken account of a vote, which is so unusual in parliament, such as the one that took place last term. there is no doubt, commissioner, that the commission has chosen to bypass parliament's opinion by not making a real international treaty with the united states. the fact that you have chosen soft law over a real treaty speaks volumes about the commission's intention to exclude democratic control of this treaty, and i think that is particularly serious. we do not want to be in conflict with you, but if you really want to impose it on us, we will have no choice but to fight. but we believe it is really important to ask the court of justice for an opinion. we do not think that your statement is satisfactory, commissioner, to prevent us from doing so and we think that this position is also useful to the commission so that in the future it does not make these mistakes to the detriment of the citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on unfair commercial practices largely follows the green paper on consumer protection, to which the commissioner referred in his report. the reasons underlying this directive, which aims at a high level of consumer protection, are essentially economic in nature and therefore relate to the completion and proper functioning of the internal market. these broad economic objectives require a consumer protection policy to be achieved which can create confidence among european consumers and thus give impetus to transnational and european commercial transactions. the advantage of economic growth in the internal market must translate into both higher profits for firms and a high level of protection and economic advantage for consumers, and through a common consumer policy and the harmonization of the internal market price convergence can also be achieved. on the contrary, unfair commercial practices induce irrational economic behaviour on the part of consumers, distort competition and hamper the proper functioning of the market. the commission's approach, based on harmonisation, the principle of mutual recognition of the country of origin, the provision of a general clause prohibiting unfair commercial practices, the identification of specific criteria and cases and the limitation of the scope of action to a framework directive based on relations between undertakings and consumers, is therefore acceptable. the creation of a european regulatory framework in terms of unfair commercial practices, based on an appropriate level of harmonisation and aimed at clear and effective consumer protection within the union, will result in developing consumer confidence, increasing transnational trade and thus allowing businesses to compete in conditions of legal clarity. while agreeing with the basic approach and the main objectives of the directive, parliament proposes a number of amendments which, in our view, make a number of definitions and options clearer and more unambiguous. the commission is proposing to add to the legal base proposed by the commission on the internal market that relating to article 153 on consumer protection, in order to reconcile the objective of harmonisation and mutual recognition of the internal market with the possibility for member states to maintain legislation which goes further in consumer protection. i believe that this is a response to the fears of those who believe that maximum harmonization could lead to a downgrading of consumer protection or a step backwards from the legislation already in force in many member states. we also believe that it is important in relation to the definition of consumers to refer to a specific group of consumers, in particular vulnerable consumers, who need, for different factors such as age, physical or mental condition, level of literacy or disabilities, higher protection. i think it is important - and i will put it back to the house - to have an amendment on the definition of professional diligence. we share the commission's approach to the regulation of deceptive and aggressive practices in substance, but we stress that consumer information on unfair commercial practices and codes of conduct is a key element. we also think that the distinction between national and community codes of conduct is a bit fictitious, and therefore we point out the need to provide for appropriate and effective mechanisms to monitor and enforce compliance with them. another important point, which refers to codes of conduct as a method of settling and resolving disputes between businesses and consumers, is arbitration, which cannot and should not replace or prevent recourse to administrative bodies, but can be an important factor. the adoption of this directive and of tomorrow's report is therefore, as my colleagues also recalled and as the commissioner has stressed, absolutely important both for the development of the internal market and for consumer protection. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to improving this document and to finding a solution. i would like to thank in particular mr paciotti, who has taken over for me during a period of absence for health reasons and who has conducted the work on my behalf very well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection is an important objective and we must prevent dishonest operators from taking advantage of the internal market to deceive citizens by offering them defective products. moreover, dishonest operators exploit the new technologies offered by the information society to their advantage, thus undermining consumer confidence in electronic commerce. these problems are of concern not only to consumers but also to businesses and the economy as a whole. in order to guarantee the consumer, therefore, it is necessary, in addition to creating a body of clear and effective rules, to improve cooperation between national authorities responsible for consumer protection, by encouraging the exchange of information and providing for the possibility for the authorities addressed by the consumer to request the intervention of authorities in another country. the proposal for a regulation which parliament is debating and voting on this week is aimed at this second important objective. the national systems in place today are not suited to preventing and combating cross-border abuse, and the existing informal networks are faced with legal obstacles linked in particular to difficulties in the flow of information from one authority to another and even to the lack of public authorities in charge of consumer protection in some member states. the regulation provides, inter alia, for the obligation for the member states to designate a public authority responsible for consumer protection, which will form part of a european network. the authority of a member state may ask the other members of the network for assistance in investigating any wrongdoing, in receiving information and thus putting an end to abuses by dishonest operators. the legal affairs committee has taken steps to make the proposed regulation a little more protective, to avoid abuses by national authorities, to protect confidential information held by companies that is not strictly necessary for the investigation, to ensure that requests for cooperation are reasonably justified and do not unnecessarily hinder economic operators. the proposal for a regulation also contains procedures which are sometimes a bit cumbersome and onerous for the consumer and for the public administration, and which risk making the costs far greater than the damage suffered by the consumer. we therefore oppose certain provisions proposed by the council and the commission which would make the system very complicated and if we are to adopt the regulation in its pre-enlargement reading, we will ensure that it is revised, on the basis of experience, five years after its entry into force.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has presented the communication to the council and the european parliament on the modernisation of company law and the strengthening of corporate governance in the union. this communication is a response to the report of 4 november 2002 by the group of high-level experts on company law, which commissioner bolkestein had appointed with the aim of indicating a modern regulatory framework for company law in europe. the communication sets out the major policy objectives which will guide any future initiative. it includes an action plan setting out a timetable of a series of regulatory and non-regulatory instruments to be implemented in the short, medium and long term, together with a grid indicating the level of priority of the measures. in presenting this proposal, the commission took account of the need to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and gradually adopted its regulatory approach, while keeping in mind the evolution of regulation at international level. the commission has two main objectives in its efforts to reform company law in europe: the strengthening of shareholder rights and the protection of third parties; the promotion of efficiency and competitiveness of enterprises. the main reasons for this initiative can be found in the determination of a more homogeneous framework of reference in the field of company law to facilitate the exercise of cross-border settlement and restructuring; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment and the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the environment; the protection of the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment to achieve the first of the objectives set out in the action plan, it is essential to ensure an effective and up-to-date system of protection of shareholders and their rights. the position of certain third parties, particularly qualified in view of the interests they represent, must also be taken into account: creditors and workers. from this point of view, the commission's approach to the governance problem appears reductive and partial. the issue of corporate governance is presented as a problem limited to the relationship between shareholders and management, as if an enterprise were an entity that could only be referred to the interests of shareholders. this, i believe, is how a virtual company is described, without giving adequate prominence to the workers and without more general responsibilities towards other categories of stakeholders in the life of the company itself, such as, for example, creditors and other stakeholders. with regard to the second objective, the competitiveness of enterprises can be enhanced by a number of factors, one of which is the need for an appropriate regulatory framework in the field of company law, which is well balanced between national and community measures. i believe that the challenge to be faced today is to bring out the distinctive and peculiar features of european capitalism in the age of globalisation. in other words, we must see whether we can speak of a genuine european model which differs significantly from the north american model, not because it corresponds to and is based on a different set of challenges and problems than those facing everyone in the context of economic globalization, but because it pays attention to the social implications and implications, so as to make it more temperate and more humane: a model which thus seeks to conceive the essential core of the corporate model, represented by the social interest, not only as the common interest of the members and shareholders but as the interest of the undertaking itself, an undertaking which, as an autonomous economic actor, also takes care of the particular interest of all those outside and inside the undertaking itself, such as employees, customers, suppliers, creditors, the public administration, as a provider of welfare or taxation, and the whole of civil society, which is structurally linked with the general and common interest in the prosperity and continuity of the undertaking. a final general point: the right balance between self-regulation and heteregulation needs to be struck when designing the framework for european governance. there is a widespread tendency today to fill in the regulatory gaps with self-regulatory codes. all this is good, but it is not enough. a system of legally binding rules, with effective sanctions, enforced by public bodies to which the tasks of direction and supervision are entrusted, should be maintained. the perspective must be precisely to globalise the rules of governance and to network the public supervisory authorities. we have therefore focused our attention on a few key points, which i will just mention: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for growth and jobs, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2007-2013.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteurs, in june last year the european union adopted, with difficulty and much later than the requirements of european consumers and businesses, directive 2003/55/ec, which moves decisively towards completing the liberalisation of the gas market. in order to overcome the remaining obstacles to the completion of the internal market, the member states had set up an informal coordination between the community and national institutions on the one hand and the gas industry and regulatory authorities on the other, in an attempt to define guidelines on third party access to transmission networks. however, this informal coordination has proved inadequate to address the serious delays accumulated to date; in fact, the interests in companies from several countries and the position rents that many gas distribution companies continue to earn have seriously jeopardized the possibility of completing a single market in gas distribution. the commission's initiative to propose the regulation we are discussing today, which makes the operational rules clearer and more binding and responds to the need to provide certainty and speed to consumers and businesses, should therefore be welcomed. the text which has been drawn up by the committee on industry and research improves this proposal even further and i therefore believe that it should be supported as it stands. it is in the interest of certain countries - i am thinking in particular of italy - which are characterized by high natural gas consumption, insufficient national production and a strong and growing dependence on imports, which require many countries to cross, to have a situation of certain rules which imply, from an operational point of view, the effective possibility of having a market and, therefore, a system of liberalized networks making gas available to businesses and consumers to the extent and in the right quantity, with freedom of choice.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you today a very important dossier in the framework of european transport policy, namely the proposal to amend the 'eurovignette' directive. as you know, the current community framework is not sufficient in view of the numerous initiatives which have recently been taken at national level in this regard. this framework needs to be strengthened, in particular to ensure a level playing field between carriers and to give greater impetus to the balance between the different modes of transport. i would first of all like to congratulate mr cocilovo on his excellent work. it has achieved something which - i must say - seemed to me impossible: to group, to conflate, to integrate a series of amendments, presenting in the end a result which respects the principles and philosophy of the commission's proposal. i would like to put a few technical points aside and make it clear that the commission supports parliament's report. first of all, i would point out that the draft report endorses a fundamental principle of the proposal, namely the allocation of the revenue from charging to transport. this principle has been and continues to be the subject of intense debate in the council. it is therefore vitally important that parliament has supported it. how can the collection of a toll on a motorway be justified if it is not known where the funds it generates will go? in a single market such as we have now, how can this situation be justified which could lead us back to almost medieval times? the implementation of major projects in the transeuropean transport network is also hampered by a lack of funds. road pricing is thus a financial incentive mechanism which should help to improve connections in the enlarged union. as regards the calculation of tolls, the draft report encourages the commission to develop a method for calculating external costs. the discussions in the council show that it has not been possible to reach a compromise based on objective data and objectively determined costs. we must continue to work on this and find a reliable methodology that can be clearly accepted horizontally within the council. it is also necessary to obtain parliament's support for the increase of tolls in particularly sensitive areas, such as mountainous areas and those affected by a high level of pollution. this latter concept is totally innovative and will contribute to the realisation of costly but necessary infrastructures for the elimination of bottlenecks in our network. i would like to end by stressing that the commission has made every effort to present the european parliament with a text that is acceptable to all; transit countries must be able to apply a charging system that enables them to promote their own network in the context of sustainable transport development, and at the same time the peripheral countries of the union and their carriers will be the first to benefit from an effective charging policy in europe that provides them with a viable network. on the other hand, we must understand the concerns of those countries which see a possible increase in the cost of transport and therefore a comparative disadvantage. in order not to affect the viability of transport undertakings, tolls must be set at reasonable levels corresponding to the consideration for the use of an infrastructure, and therefore to the objectively determined costs generated by the use of that infrastructure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, i would have liked to have seen this initiative adopted at first reading and an informal trilogue, or an informal agreement between parliament, the council and the commission, to have allowed this initiative to be taken forward. it was not possible. however, i hope that, thanks to the outcome of the cocilovo report, the amendments which are to be introduced and the fundamental support of this parliament for the commission's proposal, we will soon be able to reach a common position of the council which is close enough to parliament's proposal to allow the adoption of this very important directive for the balance of transport in the european union to be completed quickly, either at second reading or in a rapid conciliation.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has said, i would like to stress not only the importance of this proposal for a directive in the development of a european strategy for the transport system, but also to point out that this is not the first time that the commission, the european parliament and the council have had the opportunity to deal with the issues of the transport system and networks and to make specific contributions in this regard, also with reference to the external costs generated by their use and the consequent problems linked, in particular, to the pricing of transport infrastructure. as regards the reference to parliament's contribution, on all these occasions, in the conclusions relating to the individual reports and individual interventions, the need was highlighted first of all to harmonize transport tariffs in all the member states in order to consolidate the european single market; the possibility of transforming - in some cases in an objective and realistic way, if not radically, and at the same time with considerable effort - the structure of fares in order to allow the internationalisation of the external costs of transport, which are often overlooked in decisions on modal choices and thus in infrastructure construction strategies; the need, however, to develop a charging system commensurate with the use of transport infrastructure; the need to make the mechanisms for calculating these costs uniform for each mode of transport and, of course, in the relationship between member states; finally, the need to give governments transport policy instruments based on the cost of infrastructure to encourage the use of modes of transport with a lower environmental impact, but above all to allow new investment in the infrastructure sector and, in the long term, therefore, the completion of the design linked to the full implementation of the major infrastructure projects for the transeuropean transport networks, which also suffer from the problems of financial coverage referred to a little earlier and which, moreover, we all know. at this stage, however, the governments of the member states are confronted with two distinct phenomena: on the one hand, there is an increasing urgency to invest large resources to meet the demand for transport infrastructure. on the other hand, the cost problems - also of a social nature - that the growth of mobility entails, from increased pollution to environmental problems, the increase in noise, especially congestion levels and the accident rate, must be addressed. i do not recall the figures for this prospect, even in the context of enlargement and the foreseeable increase in demand, which will still have to be met. the problem is not just the external costs. we know that the construction of infrastructure and the operation of the transport system have often been financed mainly through general taxation. today, however, the new approach to the public sector, the constraints on member states' budgets, privatization policies and services mean that private capital must also be used to build infrastructure, or else a supplementary design will have to be abandoned. i would just like to point out that if all this is to be done outside the perspective - which is unacceptable to anyone - of a prejudicial penalisation of road transport, alternatives must be guaranteed, because the sole lever of tolling, or of intervention on costs, in the absence of real and competitive alternatives to redirect part of the volume of traffic, would not be an answer to the problem but would aggravate, from the point of view of costs, with general economic consequences, the compulsory use of these infrastructures. it is precisely in this sense that we have tried to give guidance and to find solutions to the problem, in the most sensitive and hot spots, through the instrument of cost financing and to divert an additional set of resources to accelerate the implementation of these projects. i conclude by regretting that a certain delay in the discussion of positions within the council is preventing a complete result today, to the attainment of which i believe that the strengthening of parliament's position can make a great contribution to the future development of the negotiations, and in this connection i must thank all the groups and all the colleagues for the valuable collaboration given to this work at this stage, at least with a view to the objective of concluding the first reading of the report positively.
mr president, the commissioner is quite right to make a point of the work that has been done on the very sensitive subject of road safety. as a group, we cannot but congratulate mr rack, who has done a very difficult job. let us not forget that the text which is coming out of this house today is a text which strongly reflects the contribution of the european parliament and its amendments. the commission's first version, as the commissioner recalls, was a little too legislative and prescriptive and would have been difficult to implement. i think we should all be pleased to highlight the excellent work of the rapporteur and this good example of community legislation. when they want to, the three institutions can work together and they can work well. i think this is a very useful message also for the european citizens, since the issue of road safety, as the commissioner mentioned, has been a long-standing concern of ours in this parliament. i am sorry, commissioner, that we have not been able to close the circle with the proposal on driving licences. unfortunately, the times did not allow it. i am also sorry that, unfortunately, we will not have your tenacity and persistence in the next parliament to close what is still open. i am convinced, however, that you will still be able to contribute to us in other ways. that said, what we have to do is take a further step in this direction. a large part of the costs of this legislation will fall, in particular, on some countries of the union - in my country there is at least 50 per cent of these galleries - and i believe that in the next legislature it will be useful to find ways of financially supporting this effort, which should not be left to the individual member states alone, but must involve all the european institutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to explain my abstention on the cocilovo report. the rapporteur has made a great effort to support a new approach and to take it courageously. i would have liked to have had a little more courage and, above all, a greater degree of support for the amendments tabled by the various political groups - including myself - in committee and here in the plenary, in order to take more account of the needs of people in sensitive areas. the first reading lacked that courage. i hope that this will be the case for the next treatment, and i am confident that this path is going in the right direction, but it needs to be undertaken with more consistency and also with more courage.
former member of the commission, current minister for foreign affairs of the french republic. - thank you very much, mr president, pat cox, and for your personal presence and for allowing me, with the complicity of the council presidency, to occupy the council benches very provisionally for a few minutes to say a few words to you. ladies and gentlemen, i would have liked to address you a few days ago, but that was not possible because the appointment as french foreign minister came very quickly. i wanted to say a few words to you and i thank president pat cox very much for allowing me to do so. madam commissioner, dear mr michaele, ladies and gentlemen, voltaire liked to say that his motto was: short letters for long friendships. the brevity of my speech will also have nothing to do with the longevity and solidity i wish for our relations. my first words were and are to you, mr president, to thank you for allowing me to say them to you, exceptionally, i am aware of that. i am happy, at a time when i have been given another mission in my country, to greet you and to take leave as is the custom among partners and friends, because i do not want to, i cannot forget that the battles that were mine for almost five years, here in strasbourg or in brussels, in the service of the commission, were battles shared by your assembly and with it. firstly, the fight for the constitution, which we hope and are working on, is approaching the decisive stage of its adoption by june at the latest, thanks to the intelligent efforts of the irish presidency and on the basis of a project in which we all recognise ourselves, because this project is ours. when it came to designing it, we found ourselves, antonio vitorino and i, side by side in the presidium with klaus hänsch and iñigo méndez from vigo. when it was necessary to discuss it bitterly, article by article, comma by comma, and finalize it, we were again side by side with many other conventionalists whom i find here: elmar brok, andrew duff, olivier duhamel, alain lamassoure, anne van lancker, johannes voggenhuber and others whom i would not like to omit to mention but whom i am thinking of, the conventionalists of parliament and their substitutes who have always been active, uncompromising, intelligent. i have no doubt that when the time comes to defend this text and explain it to the peoples of europe - i am thinking of the concern that gianfranco dell'alba had and still has for explanation - we will all know how to find our marks and do it together again, as a team, whatever our positions. mr president, along this path, which was both exciting and difficult, there is someone who meant a great deal to me, who in a way guided and advised me, president giorgio napolitano, who is here. he believed, above all, in the possibility of this convention and the constitution. i would like to thank him for his advice and pay tribute to his action and to his vision, quoting a beautiful phrase by a french writer, andré maurois, who wrote somewhere: 'the world progresses thanks to the impossible things that have been achieved'. as you know, my other fight has been and will remain the fight for economic, social and now territorial cohesion and its future after 2007. cohesion, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the european union's most beautiful policies. with the whole team of the commission's directorate-general for regional policy, who helped me tremendously, i wanted to ensure that the regions - your regions and first of all those that need it most, because they are the poorest or because they are the most remote, such as the outermost regions and others - are really partner regions and never spectator regions of european projects and progress. the hour of decision is approaching. by adopting its position on the financial perspective and on cohesion policy in the coming hours, your assembly will take an important step towards that final decision in 2005. this gives me the opportunity, and i have almost finished, to thank some of you in particular - the three chairmen of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism with whom i have had the pleasure of working: konstantinos hatzidakis, luciano caveri, today paolo costa; the successive rapporteurs who have helped me to shape the future of cohesion policy: francesco musotto, elisabeth schroedter, emmanouil mastorakis and javier pomés ruiz; and finally, those who, by their vigilance and advice, again without complacency, have enabled me to base this policy on sound budgetary management and partnership: mrs diemut theato, mr wynn, mr pittella, mr kuhne. that others with whom i have worked do not hate me; i think of them and i associate them with these thanks. mr president, this is the first time in a long time - i was a minister at another time - that i have spoken to you from the council benches with your permission and that of the irish presidency. i have different responsibilities now, of course, from those of the commission. i can assure you that in my position as minister for foreign and european affairs of the french republic, neither my ideas nor my methods, nor, above all, my availability and friendship towards this parliament and its members, will be altered or altered. it is a certain idea of europe that has enabled us to meet and i am quite convinced that it will enable us, in the near future, to meet again. there are so many things we have to work on together. ladies and gentlemen, for the great democratic moment of exchange and dialogue between citizens which awaits you and your parliament in a few weeks' time, i wish you all the best of luck in the diversity of your opinions and commitments. mr president, i know that this is not the custom, but i would like to thank you for allowing me to say these few words to you, because i really wanted to. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to take a minute to thank the commissioner, mr barnier, not only for his words, which have touched me deeply, but also for the cooperation he has established over the years with the committee on constitutional affairs and with the whole of parliament. he is also responsible for making dialogue, cooperation, joint efforts and the alliance - as has sometimes been said - between the commission and parliament in the field of institutional affairs not merely a matter of rhetoric but a reality. we are confident that our friend and minister michel barnier will be able to fill the seat of robert schuman with dignity, interpreting the europeanist traditions of the great country of france, the great founding country of the community of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i too thank mr garriga for the work he has done and also for the cooperation we have had in the committee on budgets. i also thank mr wynn for the time we have spent working together, mr walter and all the other members of the committee. 2005 will perhaps be the first full year for the new europe of 25 member states, and i believe that this cannot escape the commissioner, to whom i also owe my thanks, for the first year in which the union's budget will be drawn up entirely with 25 member states in mind. we are facing new challenges, since we must, however, maintain the level of expenditure in order to guarantee a certain rate of growth, taking account of new needs, always and in any case in accordance with a financial rigor that must be respected, especially through parliamentary control. we hope that all this will be achieved in the near future, especially in a new europe enlarged to 25 member states.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate commissioner patten, commissioner verheugen and minister zuzul, who have worked hard in recent months to make up for the long delay croatia has suffered. my question is very simple, commissioner patten: do you think the united kingdom will take a number of steps to cooperate more effectively - through its troops in bosnia - with the hague tribunal? it is now clear that his argument that croatia is not ready to become a member of the european union is no longer valid, since mrs del ponte gave you and mr verheugen assurances that croatia would cooperate fully with the hague tribunal. can we also expect the united kingdom to ask for the establishment of an international tribunal for chechnya, in order to demonstrate its willingness to strengthen international justice?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to begin by expressing my very great satisfaction with the commission's communication, the previous discussions and the positive decision, and in particular my thanks to the two commissioners present. i believe, and i say this quite consciously as chairman of the eu-slovenia joint parliamentary committee - slovenia is croatia's direct neighbour - that we have taken a very significant step forward here, a positive step. i have a specific question: is there any effort on the part of the european commission to help the two countries, slovenia and croatia, to resolve their border issue in the bay of piran so that a solution can be found here as soon as possible in a european spirit? finally, and this is a comment on the statements made by commissioner verheugen, we note that the council is grateful for the information. we would often wish - but this is not addressed to you, but to the council directly - that the council would show more acceptance of parliament's indications.
the commission (es) the honourable member will recall that the directives establishing the internal market in electricity contain general principles and lay down minimum legal provisions. however, member states are free to apply these directives in the manner they deem most appropriate to meet national conditions and needs and to lay down stricter minimum standards, provided that they comply with community rules and, in particular, the principles of the treaty. in other words, we leave room for subsidiarity so that we can adapt and apply the directives in the most appropriate way, taking into account the reality and diversity of the various member states. the commission considers it essential to ensure a common level of effective opening of the electricity markets of the various member states on equal terms. in this context, following the adoption of directive 96/92/ec, i.e. the first electricity directive, the commission published an annual benchmarking report examining the implementation of the internal market in gas and electricity in all the member states of the union. these reports showed a significant difference between the levels of effective market opening. this led the commission to propose a second package of legislative measures to complete the internal market in electricity, to avoid the tensions and distortions that were occurring, and these measures include directive 2003/54/ec and regulation 1228/2003, which were adopted by parliament and the council last june and will enter into force as of july 2004. the new legislation provides for much higher common minimum standards for market opening both in quantitative terms, i.e. minimum level of market opening, and in qualitative terms: legal separation, regulated third party access, etc. as regards quantitative measures, two stages are envisaged: a first stage, july 2004, when the market for non-household consumers must be opened to competition, and 100% of the market in july 2007. in any case, this will reduce the asymmetries which exist today between the various markets in the european union and make it possible to achieve what has been the aim since the first directive: the integration of the european electricity and gas market into a single market, ending the frontiers which still exist today and avoiding something which would not be desirable: 15 markets or 25 markets as from 1 may for electricity and gas. this is not the goal. the aim is to create a single, integrated european market for electricity and gas.
first of all, commissioner, i would like to thank you for the information you have given me. however, could the commission say how the application of these minimum standards is monitored and to what extent countermeasures are taken if these minimum standards are not respected?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank - even if he is not here - mr michiel van hulten, not only for his five years in parliament but also because, initially, i did not believe in his policy of including in the discharge report a whole series of considerations which went a little beyond what was his task but which, in fact, in the minds of governments and also, let us be honest, in our minds, are welcome. i welcome it and i hope very much that the paragraphs concerning the prerogatives of our parliament as regards the choice of our seat will be voted on and will constitute, so to speak, the political testament of this outgoing parliament, destined for the incoming one, so that finally the question of the seat will be dealt with in a healthy way. we are embarking on investment projects for new buildings in brussels; it is time that this inhumanity was brought to an end once and for all, and in this respect we must pay tribute to mr van hulten and his work. as regards the discharge of the commission, we radicals will vote in favour of it, but we will also be very attentive to the vote on the eurostat question. i would like to say to the commissioner, mrs schreyer, that of course our bitterness, our sense of frustration, is caused by many factors, but one in particular concerns olaf. it is unthinkable that for four years people, officials, should be subjected to a kind of inquisition regime and that we should not yet know the final outcome of a series of investigations which should have been concluded a long time ago. for this reason, and for other reasons, including to encourage the commission, to stress that it must be accountable to this parliament and to the new parliament, we believe it is important to accompany the discharge with a meaningful decision on the eurostat question.
mr president, i fully agree with the rapporteur. contrary to what the commission claims, the draft agreement which has been submitted to us is in radical contradiction with the directive on the protection of personal data and therefore with article 286 of the ec treaty. while article 7 of the directive confers on the member states the power to regulate the processing of personal data for security reasons, in the draft agreement the community takes that power away from the member states and confers it on a foreign authority. the draft law provides that european airlines will be obliged to process european passenger data as required by the us department of homeland security's customs bureau, under us law. this amendment to the directive, which the commission insists on denying, would have entailed, inter alia, that parliament - the co-legislator of the directive - would have to give its assent under article 300 of the treaty, as commissioner bolkestein had already announced to the committee on civil liberties on 9 september, which is not the case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. in addition, the project violates one of the fundamental rights of european citizens, namely the right to privacy of personal data, as set out in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this right provides, inter alia, that data subjects may access and obtain rectification of the data collected, which is not guaranteed in the draft agreement, and this is relevant from a practical point of view, because data collected for commercial purposes, and not checked or filtered by a responsible authority, may be inaccurate or even deliberately unrealistic. these discrepancies - which would not occur in the case of data knowingly transmitted for security purposes - can cause serious inconvenience and real harm to our citizens. it is therefore necessary to change the text of the agreement and, in any case, to seek the opinion of the court of justice. (applause) i would like to thank
commissioner patten, i believe that the european union is in a weak position because we have given up applying our own rules. the draft agreement is contrary not only to the directive but also to the fundamental principles of the european union. even if it were a member state, it would be illegal to systematically use data collected for commercial and surveillance purposes. that's the problem! it is clear that we must fight terrorism and it is clear that we must do so with rules which respect the fundamental principles of our european union. what is false is that the suspension of compliance with the law, which has now been in force for more than 13 months, is somehow imposed on our airlines. it is not, because this measure applies to all airlines, even american airlines when booking in europe. so you decided to take a weak and losing position. you can't change the rules. you can't reform when you don't respect the form!
mr president, i am speaking on the basis of articles 3, 28, 64, 118, 151, 171 and 172 of the treaty on european union, which relate to access to documents. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. no report, no document put to the vote has that title. i think that this is an instrument of the officials, and i therefore call on the president of parliament to ensure that the officials of parliament, of the committees, do not take political positions but respect the basic rules and the official acts of parliament. please put this on the record. i have already made a formal protest yesterday to the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, who has sent a formal protest letter to the president of parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, may i say that i have never been more proud than i am tonight to be the chairman of a committee which has calmly and very thoroughly given an opinion and suggestions to the committee on civil liberties, with great awareness and with great serenity, without contradiction, in a very rigorous way, calling for a commitment to diversify the ownership and control of telecommunications and television broadcasting, calling for free competition, calling for the principle of pluralism to be implemented also within broadcasters, stressing the need for pluralism of the media, because this is a fundamental right. we have therefore made a number of assessments and even proposed amendments which the committee on civil liberties has not taken into account. we have discussed this calmly and the committee on civil liberties, in its majority, wants only to obstruct - that is indeed obstruction! - to take account of a purely political situation in some way, and to try to throw a situation and an assessment against italy that does not belong to it, because it must not be allowed to give a negative assessment to italy as a whole, and thus to arrive at a directive and a solution of which parliament cannot be proud.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, i am speaking in place of mr voggenhuber, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. the committee on constitutional affairs adopted its opinion unanimously, which is divided into three main points: the first point is the conflict of interest, where it is hoped - i repeat, it is hoped - unanimously that there will be legislation to prohibit political figures or candidates from having significant economic interests in the media sector; the second point states that it is necessary to define a procedure whereby parliament can, in an autonomous way, initiate autonomously, i repeat procedures which make it possible to conduct an inquiry into the situation of fundamental rights in a member state, in accordance with article 7 (1) of our treaty; the third point is that the committee on constitutional affairs considers that any action by a member state which restricts freedom of expression and freedom of information within the member state is a violation of this article. i would like to stress that there is no intention of persecution but simply the unanimous will, at least of the committee on constitutional affairs, to define a procedure for how the european parliament, the commission and the council should act in such sensitive cases.
mr president, if i may be allowed a hint of irony - which at this moment may be a ruse to get out of such a delicate debate - i would say that the electoral campaign of the italian left for the european elections officially opens this evening in this european parliament. the document we are discussing is, in fact, hostage to an indirect aim which takes away any value from the cultural, scientific and technical research that the title announces, even if it is precisely in the title that the emphasis on italy as a country where there would be more risks than in others for freedom of information anticipates conclusions by parties who intend to hit, tout court, the italian government and, above all, its president. in support of this report, the rapporteur presents the conclusions of a study carried out by a düsseldorf institute, which was never authorised by this parliament, and which is far from clear and definitive. the study announces, at the outset, the ambition to compare the information realities of the 25 member states; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. i have a question for this house, mr president: but why the rush? why not wait until the study is complete to complete the list of 25 countries? i'd have an answer, but maybe i'm too sneaky. the original text was loaded with a series of amendments which present the italian situation in a somewhat paradoxical way, with quotations and personal criticisms of the italian president of the council which do not conform to the style and vocabulary of the european parliament. this was stated in a letter today by mr cox, who asked the rapporteur to correct her tone and to delete her personal quotations. the rapporteur has in fact proposed some cosmetic changes - she has called it a gesture of appreciable availability. frankly, my dear colleague, that is too little. this is where a deep-dive lift is needed to restore dignity to the resolution. the situation in italy is quite different from that described. this is stated in a report last year by reporters without borders, an organisation that is certainly not close to the italian government and its president, and is in fact very critical of them. yet he writes: "the italian editorial landscape reflects the variety of political positions expressed in parliament and presents a wide range of opinions, often critical of the government". the report then analyses the different connotations of television and radio news, newspapers, periodicals, etc., noting: "the print media offers a balanced representation of the italian political chessboard, but suffers the economic consequences of the hegemony of the media"; finally, last note, it says that "the printed paper landscape penalizes the government and the majority". mr president, where is the truth? too bad, because the truth is just not clear where it is. this report could have helped to defend it. we know where he is. unfortunately, the relationship betrays and mortifies her. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her valuable work in a competent and impartial manner. i would like to thank you in particular for your great patience in the face of the unjustified polemics and obstructionism of the last few days, which were certainly not motivated by the interest in protecting a fundamental right of european citizens. the report, drawn up with the authorisation of the conference of presidents and in accordance with the instructions given by it, deals with the subject of freedom and political and cultural pluralism of the media, which are essential elements for a fully-fledged democracy and which, in turn, constitute a founding value of the european union, in accordance with article 6 of the treaty. the report, which is fully acceptable, analyses the criteria to be respected, the instruments that can be adopted to ensure freedom of information and pluralism, and suggests ways in which the community and the member states can intervene, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. this analytical and propositional work is of great importance for the future of an enlarged community of 25 member states. the report also examines the risks of infringement of freedom of expression and information and, as required in the mandate given to the commission, particularly in italy. risks are everywhere, always, but it is difficult to deny the italian anomaly due to objective and undeniable factors: the highest concentration rate in europe in the audiovisual market, characterised by the duopoly of a public body, rai, and a private group, mediaset, which collects 96.8 per cent of advertising resources, by the fact that the mediaset group is controlled by the current president of the council of ministers, by the fact that in italy the organisation chart and the programming of the public television service are influenced by the government and its majority, by the fact that the conflict of interests of the president of the council is still unregulated. moreover, as is shown by numerous judgments of the italian constitutional court, the italian broadcasting system has been operating for years in an unlawful situation, which the legislator has not yet remedied; in fact, the laws passed so far, which ratified the de facto occupation of frequencies, i.e. the operation of facilities without authorization and concessions by the largest private group, outside any logic of increasing pluralism, have been gradually declared unconstitutional, and the latest law reforming the audiovisual sector was sent back to the chambers by the president of the republic because it did not comply with the principles affirmed by the constitutional court. in the face of these undeniable facts, no one can fail to see the seriousness of the risk of concrete and repeated violation of the fundamental right to pluralism of information that european citizens in italy are running.
mr president, it is surprising and amusing that many of the figures cited, which are called into question and whose proof is sought, are mentioned on the mediaset website. but is it possible that mediaset is lying? on the other hand, the facts which have been presented to us concerning the risks to freedom of information in italy are so obvious and serious that it would be useless to repeat them. i would like to comment on them with a few thoughts. you are right to say that freedom of expression still exists in my country, but the space for freedom of information has been severely restricted. we are witnessing a phenomenon which is dangerously widespread these days. in italy, the lack of pluralism of information is now becoming a lack of information tout court, and even the trial of a european parliamentarian, charged in a criminal case for the crime of mafia collusion, is silenced in the media. the repetitiveness and frequency of the violations are, then, such as to suggest a closed and self-referred system that, with tenacity, pursues those anti-democratic objectives that were the basis of the plan for the rebirth of licio gelli and his deviated masonic lodge, the p2, to which cavalier berlusconi was enrolled with the card number 1816. what place would news of a mafia trial involving the right-hand man of the prime minister, co-founder of his party, have in another european country? a law to resolve the devastating conflict of interest of the italian prime minister and, by implication, many of his ministers is now absolutely indispensable. the obstacles to the boogerd-quaak report have been raised in the last few days. they want to prevent it from being discussed in this legislature so as not to call into question an information system that is only designed to produce consent for those who own or control it. it is never pleasant to speak ill of one's own country, but the most negative aspect is represented by the events taking place in italy. we must raise our voice against them loudly and clearly, in condemnation and denunciation.
mr president, we have finally reached the debate in the house on mrs boogerd-quaak's report: the report is an excellent one, and it is the result of the concern shared by the vast majority of parliament for freedom of information and expression in the european union. of course, we would have preferred that the commission had moved forward with a specific proposal for a directive during these five years. the situation is becoming more and more worrying in all the countries of the union, as a result of massive concentrations of the media and increasingly overt attempts by governments to direct, dominate and use the media in order to maintain and strengthen their own power. the italian example is the one which worries us most, both because of the damage it has done to freedom of information and because of the model it offers to other european countries. europe cannot continue to remain silent in the face of the scandal of a president of the council who owns the three private television networks, owns the largest television advertising collection company, controls the three public networks and puts all his political sympathizers in charge of them, even publicly announcing the dismissal of journalists such as enzo biagi and michele santoro, whom he dislikes. in this increasingly neoliberal and anti-democratic europe, in which media power plays a functional role in the unification of thought, in wars, in the dismantling of the welfare state, it is necessary to give a signal of change or, at least, of rethinking. the boogerd-quaak report on the media is moving in this direction and will therefore have the support of our group, the european confederal left/nordic green left.
mr president, this report has three objectives: the first is to reiterate once again that the majority of this parliament believes that dealing with freedom of expression in the media is entirely within the competence of the european union and that action is therefore necessary because this issue could become a real problem - a risk, in fact - for democracy. this is not a new theme. this time it has been dealt with in a more specific and elaborate way, more substantiated by examples, but it is not very different from what parliament had voted unanimously a while ago when it asked the commission to take action. this activation has never been done before, and i would like to know the reasons for it, if you know them, commissioner patten. the second objective is to give some concrete examples of these risks, which certainly exist in various countries but which are demonstrated in italy in a most blatant way, which simply lies in the concentration of political, media and economic power in one person, something which - from a political, cultural and legislative point of view - would be practically impossible in any other western democracy. the third point i would like to make about this report is the recommendations that are made. these are recommendations to the countries, and in particular to italy, which are not very different from the conclusions of the report referred to by mr santini, namely the resolution of the conflict of interests and the resolution of the concentration of media power in italy between two parties, and, i repeat this again because it seems particularly important to me, the request to the commission to take action to legislate on this issue. i repeat my question to commissioner patten: i would like to know what the commission has done with this request and what it will do, since this text will certainly be adopted.
mr president, despite the appearance of the amendments i have tabled in committee, some two hundred of them, i am not really very enthusiastic about this debate. i am rather depressed because the subject of the debate was not pluralism and freedom of information in europe from the outset, but a purely ideological and pretexted attack. i find it depressing that a certain italian left wing, blinded by the need to accuse the president of the italian council, and therefore the whole government - which, i like to recall, was democratically elected by a majority of architects - allows an inquisitorial report, such as this one, dedicated, as the title says, "particularly to italy", with the sole purpose of discrediting italy itself. i do not accept the impudence or the false moralism of this sort of continuous anti-italian crusade, supported also by certain members of the european left, known first for having insulted italy during the italian semester, and even more famous afterwards because, suspected by their own party comrades, they have put false signatures in the attendance register. i do not accept lessons in morality from those who have not yet had the courage to actually accuse the european commission of the infamous eurostat scandal. in conclusion, i would like the italian and european left to find the time, and above all the courage, to devote a report that is equally attentive to the conflict of interests of romano prodi, who for a time was president of the european commission and full-time leader of the olive tree in italy, and who, in order to pursue a policy strictly against italy, ended up, despite us, by weakening and damaging the image of the european commission itself. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on a personal matter, mr president. i heard that in her speech mrs angelilli referred to some colleagues, whom she did not name, and said that these people put false signatures on the register of the european parliament. i would ask you, mr president, to tell the honourable member to whom you are referring - first name and surname - and to ask her to produce evidence of the statement made in this house. this is not acceptable. president cox has already had the opportunity to state clearly what the position and the rights of members working in this house are. this, mr president, is unacceptable. i'll ask my colleague to name names.
mr president, let me speak in english to spare the interpreters. i can only be dismayed and also somewhat amused by the very odd performance in this house by my honourable colleagues in the berlusconi group. there are very serious parliamentarians – grave to the point of sounding ponderous – like mr podestà, who is also vice-president of this house, suddenly behaving as if they have gone into a rhetorical spasm, with mr tajani transformed into the incredible hulk and many other respected members of this house beating their chests like king kong. what has happened? obviously, the gentleman in rome has issued some very precise orders to his group, which he is quite entitled to do, and the order is to stop the report by mrs boogerd-quaak at any cost. filibustering is more than understandable and more than justified, even as some acceptable form of obstructionism; but i wonder whether we have not gone too far, beyond the rules and traditions of this house, with these continuous attempts – and we will see many more before tomorrow, because rumours circulate very fast in this house – to postpone consideration of this report and take it off the agenda. let me say that i disapprove of this behaviour – not because i belong to a nostalgic communist group or am a bolshevik, as i have been called, but because i still respect this house, its traditions, its standards and its rules.
mr president, in taking the floor in a personal capacity and speaking in italian - because i do not have the command of mr manisco's english - i want to say that the issue of information pluralism is a european issue, and the words of commissioner patten have profoundly underlined this. but that, commissioner, is precisely what shows how much of a fugitive the european commission is in this debate. the european parliament has twice asked the commission to draw up a proposal for a directive in the last two years, and this has not been done. this is not a right-wing or left-wing issue, and it is reductive to think that it applies only to italy. in this parliament the subject was raised by a resolution signed by myself and 31 other members of the group of the european people's party or the right-wing groups, because it goes much deeper than italy and concerns a good which belongs to the whole of europe and to every civilization. of course, in italy the issue has passed the level of the guard. public television, which has never escaped the control of the parties, is now supplemented by private television, which is entirely in the hands of the government. this is unfortunately a serious matter, and the report is right on this point. i will vote in favour, mr president.
mr president, italy is not qatar, nor is it a south american republic. it is not true what is written in this indecent report, which the rapporteur could have based, for example, on data from an independent institute, such as the pavia observatory. but the rapporteur has chosen to ignore many things: the commission is not even aware of what happened to the journalist tillack just a few steps from the european parliament. we don't read a word of it. it's not al-jazeera or tg1 or the news channels of canale 5, the news channels owned by berlusconi or those that he says are controlled by the italian government, although, every night, until a few nights ago, seeing a elegant red lady calling the mujaheddin guerrillas "resistant" and the attacks on westerners "resistance", you could think that too. it is not al-jazeera, the system of public and private television in our country, in which leftist journalists graze, for hundreds of millions of dollars, while the "far-left" newspapers "shoot at zero against the government" take money from the government. i'd like to know if libération in france takes money from mr raffarin. in italy it's like that. there is a wide freedom of opinion and, as far as the persecution of journalists in france for defamation, well, a few words about the bad habits of the italian judiciary to persecute those who freely express their opinions could have been written. i mean: i am not going to go into the details of the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am deeply disappointed and bitter about this report, both technically and politically. from the legal point of view, it is almost an abuse of the parliamentary procedure: quotes facts and people often out of place, without any evidence to support the serious allegations it describes; uses third parties as an authentic source of information without having carried out a proper assignment procedure, as required by the regulation; gives serious assessments on countries that have yet to become active subjects of our institution without supporting evidence; does not take due account of the assessments expressed by the competent committees for opinion; it violates a basic criterion of our legal activity, subsidiarity, especially in the legislative aspects. it comes to censoring national parliaments; and i could go on and on. it is a report so badly constructed that parliament's own president, pat cox, in reply to a letter from the honourable member, says that, although acceptable, some parts of the text need to be amended in order to fully respect parliamentary practice and our internal rules. unfortunately, from a political point of view, all this is secondary to the will to wage political combat based on slander, and that is a very serious matter for me, as a member of parliament who loves politics and considers it an indispensable tool for building a better society. relationships like this and the use of the institutions as a tool for electoral purposes strike at the heart of our institution. this institution has its dignity and credibility built up over years of hard work, consistency and seriousness in the positions it takes. the fact that it has become the theatre of national disputes for electoral purposes is a fatal blow to the future of this institution and undermines its foundations and credibility with the european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleagues for their amendments to this proposal: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the treatment of thirdcountry nationals who are not nationals of a member state. this measure amends the convention implementing the schengen agreement and the so-called common manual to that end. on the surface, it would seem to be a mere bureaucratic measure; the aim of the new regulation is to ensure, in view of the forthcoming enlargement and the enormous extension of the external borders of the european union, a more rational management of the crossing of those borders, in particular with a view to ensuring legal immigration and to effectively deterring and combating illegal immigration and the criminal phenomena associated with it. the aim, therefore, with a view to the complete abolition of checks at the internal borders of the member states, is to transfer these checks to the external borders by strengthening judicial, customs and police cooperation with so-called compensatory measures that can guarantee security in the territory of the european union. efforts to rationalise and harmonise border control systems are important: the gradual establishment of the schengen area has led to different procedures for border controls in each member state. this has also had a negative impact on the checks on the fulfilment of the conditions of stay, especially of short duration, of third-country nationals on the territory of the member states. the commission has therefore put forward this proposal for a council regulation with the aim of establishing the obligation and common rules for the systematic affixing of a stamp on the identification document of these citizens at the time of checks at the external borders. it is clear that this is one of many operational instruments, but the systematic affixing of a stamp on the travel document can make an effective contribution to the fight against illegal immigration. finally, i would like to point out that this regulation is certainly only a first step towards a more complete reform of the system, which includes the systematic affixing of a stamp and therefore serious checks, also when leaving the territory of the schengen area.
mr president, i simply want to say that the present situation is illegal and that a reform proposal from someone who has not been able to enforce the form so far is not credible. the united states has the right to ask for any data they want before flights; but this must be done through procedures that comply with our rules. the united states, if it wants, could even reintroduce a visa requirement: they can do that. what they can't do is take the data they collect for commercial purposes and use it for security purposes. and it's not about the bad usa! no member state, no european government could do that. i do not think we can tolerate a non-eu member state doing what a member state cannot do. (applause) i would like to thank
mr poettering, it is true that this vote will be complicated, but i appeal to you, as chairman of the most important group in this house, and to the chairman of the 'union for a europe of nations' group, because, of course, groups of this size do not normally obstruct, and they have also said that they do not want to do so. the first thing i would like to do, therefore, is to call on these groups to look at their amendments and see if any of them can be withdrawn. i am sure that when more than a hundred amendments are tabled, there are some that are more important and others that are less important. do this work, make it easier for us to vote: we'll all be grateful to you. i think that is a test of political sensitivity required of groups of your importance. mr president, we agree with your second proposal, namely to vote first on the original text.
mr president, i just want to say that my group agrees with your proposal to vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph. the relationship was pretty good, almost perfect at first; the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would just like to point out to the house, for those who are not paying attention, that it is true that 200 amendments come from the group of the european people's party and 200 from other groups, but when we put them all together, the 350 amendments come from forza italia and alleanza nazionale. it is obvious, therefore, that they all come from friends of berlusconi. we therefore agree with your proposal, mr president, and we shall vote in favour of it.
mr president, i think that your proposal can certainly be considered, and if you would grant a stay of our proceedings so that we can assess it, we would be able to give a more calm opinion. for example, i welcome mr frassoni's invitation to review certain amendments to see whether they can be incorporated or deleted. i am certainly in favour of voting tomorrow, if that is more convenient for the members; i am, however, absolutely opposed, mr president, to any proposal to scrap all amendments and requests for a secret ballot, because it is not conceivable that all secret ballots can be eliminated with a single stroke of the pen. i remember that many colleagues from other groups put forward 30 or 40 proposals for secret votes on documents of interest to them without causing any scandal in parliament. i would remind mr barón crespo, who was criticising an article by mr podestà, that this phantom, as he says, centre-left coalition has already published a pamphlet which took the vote in the house for granted, making a whole series of comments, even though the report has not yet been voted on. now, to publish certain trifles or lies in advance is certainly not a sign of the goodwill of a political force. as for the other colleague who spoke of the 'berlusconi friends', i can say on behalf of the 'union for a europe of nations' group that our amendments are in the name of the whole group, that the whole group is united, that none of us has particular friendships or enmities, but that we claim the right as members to exercise our mandate fully, doing what the rules allow us to do and not just listening to the continuous provocations that have also arisen within the committee. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would ask you whether it is right for officials to sit on the council benches laughing and gesticulating. i ask everyone to maintain an attitude of respect for this house. i think i have always respected the positions of others: i ask you to respect them in the same way. as regards mr barón crespo, i have asked to speak before, but i have not been given the floor. and then i have to say that the things i've written i endorse because, in fact, in fact, you just look at the compositions and you see what the situation is. as regards the reply from mr cox, i also had to write back to him and point out the points in his letter where he acknowledged that there were serious shortcomings and deficiencies in the report itself. i therefore respect the president's decision, but please do not hide behind a problem which does not exist and which is not his. one last thing, mr. president: i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the council. but if we read the rules of procedure, it is not for the house to decide whether or not to move a vote: is your direct responsibility. so, as far as i'm concerned, you asked for advice and then you decided on your own. it is not for the house to decide on such matters! please read the rules and study them. enrique, the rules of procedure are not something you can throw around; i am therefore allowing the one who has the floor to speak and is democratically elected and here represents the citizens of this .... mr president, i believe that there are always some among us who have discovered democracy too late and who therefore perhaps do not know its rules or its deep meaning. (applause) i would like to thank
- we note that, mr jarzembowski, and in any case the responsible departments have already been informed. (the president declared the common position approved)
- i ask the chairman of the committee responsible to state his position.
- if it is a formal referral back to committee, we will hear one member for and one against, and then parliament will decide.
mr bourlanges, i think that mr van hultens's remarks clarify this question. after the vote on amendment no 44
- i will let parliament decide this.
- we will check all the language editions, mr varela suanzes-carpegna. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, i wish to express my satisfaction and appreciation as a sicilian member of parliament and to thank my colleagues who, like me, voted this morning for the amendment which has shown that common sense has finally prevailed over the willingness shown by the council of the union. there is no doubt that the overwhelming majority of parliament has today closed the second reading procedure by accepting the common position. of course, once again we noted with bitterness how the green group, accompanied in this operation by the gue/ngl group and some italian left-wing democrats, tried - with an amendment which, fortunately, received only about fifty votes - to cancel the continuation of the messina bridge project on the berlin-palermo transeuropean line. if the amendment had been adopted, in addition to the very serious damage mentioned at the end of the procedure, the italian government, which had already started the procedures for starting the construction of the bridge, would not have received the union funds with the 10% contribution provided for in the treaty. it is clear that, beyond the amount, it is the political significance that that vote would have taken. the opposite position, taken by the opponents of the bridge over the straits, has, however, appeared from the outset - if i may say so - to be false and contrary, above all, to the legitimate interests of sicily and the south of italy. we cannot hope for the development of those regions of southern europe and then deny them the right to have essential infrastructure. the bridge will not solve all the problems of sicily's socioeconomic decline, but it will allow the trans-european road and rail network to be completed and will give the island the chance to play a more competitive role in the free trade area planned for 2010.
- the votes are in. (the sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur on what is in the report she is presenting to us and on what is not in it, but i hope that tomorrow we can vote in favour of it, so as to restore the originality and specificity of the vision mrs de keyser has wanted to give to the dimension of human rights in the world. like other colleagues, we italian radicals are very attentive to all that is related to reproductive health, to this whole dimension, to this new dimension, which our society must take into account more and more in its approach to the question of human rights, including, for example, the right to health, which now involves new technologies, genetic research, all sorts of possibilities open to humanity, but which still constitute a problem, a blockage in many of our societies. so we shall vote on all the amendments which go in that direction in the hope of enriching mrs de keyser's report tomorrow. i would like to say that i would like to make an appeal to the members, to our rapporteur and to the coordinators of the various groups in the hope that my message will be heard. after the vote on the report in committee, there was a terrible massacre, terrible violence against the indigenous people of the mountains of vietnam. the indigenous population is the oldest in vietnam and has suffered under the oppression of the hanoi regime. this repression was manifested a few days ago in the brutal police action to disperse the demonstrators, as we have just heard in another country. dozens of people were probably killed, many more arrested, imprisoned. we haven't heard from them. i know that the deadline has passed, but since the report mentions indigenous peoples, i will allow myself tomorrow, with the assent of my colleagues, to table an oral amendment to include even the mention of the vietnamese mountain people in order to remind the hanoi authorities that the european parliament is concerned about their situation. commissioner patten has often intervened, other european countries have intervened in this case. i think it would be an honour to mention, in tomorrow's vote, the oppression of the mountain people of vietnam.
mr president, i had prepared a speech which i thought i should put aside after hearing the views of some of my colleagues on the right, because i believe that as long as, whenever the subject of women's rights is raised, anathemas are being raised in this house as if we were trying galileo and as long as the word 'obsession' is used to reason in terms of rights, our debates will only serve to fatigue the work of stenographers. we would have expected more rigor and more passion from some of our colleagues on the right, for example, in denouncing the legal vacuum that exists - which is contrary to all the rules of international law - on the status of the prisoners at guantánamo. we would have expected passion and rigour in denouncing the arbitrary use which, unfortunately, is often made of the fight against terrorism to repress dissent. we believe, mr president, that the defence of rights must be sought and guaranteed above all within the limits of normality, to prevent the right of the just from becoming the right of the few. and about that, really, some of the silences seem obsessive to us.
mr president, the programme on democracy and the development of democracy in third countries is a small programme in terms of resources - we are not talking about large investments compared with the community budget - but it is very important in terms of content, because it is the only instrument we have for developing a policy on human rights, women's development, support for democracy, monitoring of elections, without necessarily going through the bilateral relationship with governments. it is the only instrument of its kind we have, so we must make it effective, and we cannot always see the effectiveness of our interventions. i therefore believe that it is right for parliament, in respect of the various prerogatives of the commission and parliament itself - because it is not up to us to manage - to be more closely involved, both in the planning of the measures and in the verification of the results, and above all to ask whether the instruments for implementing this programme are as flexible as reality requires, because of course reality is not as rigid and bureaucratic as our rules are sometimes. that is why the amendments we are tabled to this regulation are important and, above all, the discussions we will be able to have with the commission will be important. commissioner patten has written to us about the other regulation, for which there is no codecision procedure, proposing to involve parliament very closely in the new approach to the revision of these regulations from 2006 onwards. i therefore believe that our amendments are only the beginning of a process of deepening which will lead to the optimum in 2006, or at least to a much more timely and effective intervention than we are able to achieve today through this instrument.
mr president, the document we are discussing is more than a parliamentary instrument, it is an electoral leaflet. on the other hand, the fact that it is inspired and signed by minorities who are distinguished by their anti-europeanism makes this intention quite obvious. it is confirmed that the approach of elections, by making the work of this parliament more feverish, also inspires initiatives such as those we are dealing with this evening. the eurostat case is being used by some of our colleagues to discredit the european institutions, and in particular the commission and its president. the undersigned know that the eurostat affair has been and is still being followed by this parliament with rigor and continuity and will be the subject of another resolution during this part-session. the bad faith is evident when, in this matter, nothing is said about the specific measures taken by the commission and, more generally, about the reforms put in place to achieve the kind of good governance that we want to inspire all the union's institutions, a process followed step by step by this parliament, also through its committee on budgetary control, and mentioned here by commissioner reding. it is easy to stir up a scandal in an attempt to attract the attention of a public often ill-informed about european policies and institutions. the more difficult it is to build the political dimension of europe, starting with the adoption of a real constitution. that said, it is a matter of pride for me as a member of the socialist group that no one in my group has signed this motion. the british conservatives' accession once again shows the unsustainable coexistence of this group with the european popular tradition, so well represented by my colleague mrs grossetête and also by my colleague mrs avilés perea. i also see among the signatories many colleagues from the uen group, including in particular the members of the italian national alliance. i think that this attitude is quite contrary to the role which the italian vice-president of the council, mr fini, has wished to play in the work of the convention. perhaps that is why mr muscardini wisely withdrew his signature. and if his colleagues in the delegation follow his example, then even the validity of the 66 signatures announced by the president this evening is in doubt, not to mention the so-called 'technical signatures', which should not even turn into a vote of support. there is, however, another key to understanding the real intentions behind the presenters of this motion, and that is given by the vice-president of the italian senate, mr calderoli, a leading member of the lega nord. he argued that the undersigned were in fact secret supporters of president prodi. the motion - which will certainly be rejected - will have the effect of strengthening parliament's confidence in the president of the commission and increasing its prestige. but if that is true, what about mr speroni, a party colleague of mr calderoli? are you aware that you have become one of the most ardent supporters of the european commission? if that is indeed the case, i think that - looking at the motion of censure in this light - there is cause for reflection for the whole group of signatories.
mr president, i have finally agreed to sign this motion of censure against the commission in the eurostat case, almost out of time, and i do not feel that i am illiterate, much less anti-european, nor do i believe that i can be blamed for discrediting the commission, which has discredited itself. in the end, we were almost forced to make this extreme gesture in the face of the commission's indifference and superficiality towards parliament, because i want to remind you that this is not a spontaneous gesture: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we would expect a less pontius pilate-like attitude from the commission. we expected this and i think we deserved it, because we are the only institution that has genuine popular legitimacy. i do not want to go back to the many questions that have not been adequately answered, nor to the good intentions that the commission has set out for the future. i would like to ask you once again to think about the body involved, namely eurostat. it is worth remembering that eurostat is not concerned with producing interesting and platonic statistics. eurostat is an institution which, by its surveying and statistical work, is in fact the guarantor of the stability pact: the commission is also responsible for monitoring the application of the maastricht criteria. it therefore helps to determine the economic and financial policies of the member states and, in fact, obliges the states to adopt austerity policies which often result in budget cuts or welfare cuts. it is therefore an institution which has a supervisory role, and whose impartiality and authority cannot be compromised by the doubts and suspicions which surround it today. i am sorry, commissioner, but the eurostat affair cannot be dismissed as a regrettable exception. we realise that this is an embarrassing situation, and i am aware of it myself, but i believe that it is the citizens who are asking for intransigence, the same people we are asking to make sacrifices in the name of the stability pact. i do not want to lecture anyone on democracy - we need more! - but i would like to remind you that democracy is based on the right of minorities to express their opinion.
mr. president, senator calderoli is right when he says that our real intent was to help president prodi. we wanted to avoid him ending this european affair by playing the shameful role of someone who shrinks like an eel in the face of questions and inquiries even from various newspapers and we thought it would be an honour to be here in the chamber to discuss this subject while one of the representatives of the media is being investigated, as in the good old days of the communist police, and his archive is being seized because it allows us to investigate european fraud and eurostat. the scandal involves a body of the european institutions dealing with sensitive funds and data, and that makes it a serious matter. it is a dossier, that of eurostat, which has damaged the image of the european commission and its president, who, in our opinion, would do well to draw the appropriate consequences. what is rather to be asked, in this situation, is what kind of hidden solidarity ties - in italy we would say a bit mafia - prevented the commission from capturing the stinking eurostat clown. a reply would be appreciated.
mr president, i think we are right to be satisfied - i say very satisfied - with the result we are achieving. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway sector is not left behind. the first result of which we should be proud is therefore that we have reached the goal and achieved the result. the second is that, objectively, despite some things which may not convince all the parties involved - as we have heard again this evening - we must recognize that we have achieved a balanced result. in these four proposals - for which, of course, the rapporteurs deserve our thanks for the great work they have done - we have a balanced mix between, on the one hand, the indispensable need to open up this market and modernise it and, on the other hand, the need to guarantee ourselves both in terms of safety and the skills and experience that workers in this sector bring and that we want to safeguard. more like, my thank you. i would like to make one comment, because i have heard notes that i find difficult to understand. when we talk about this liberalization, which some people demonize, i would like to ask you to never forget that our point of view and our objective are the users of this service. no one has the myth of liberalisation as such. we must ensure that, by using certain possibilities of competition, the service is actually improved for many users, who are largely workers - the commuters on this service - and that this is done in a safe manner and by enhancing the professionalism of the workers. i think we have achieved that. i take this opportunity - this being my last speech in this parliament - to thank my colleagues. it was my first experience as a member of parliament, and having done so in this committee helped me to understand that europe is often much more built up through this difficult, regulatory work, which affects the lives of citizens, than through many, even useless, debates on the future and the meaning of europe.
mr president, yesterday morning i was in ankara, attending the hearing at which the 15-year sentence of my colleague leyla zana and the three other former dep members was confirmed. among the many serious things that have already been mentioned by my colleagues and the commission representative, whom i thank, about this trial is precisely this fact of the confirmation of the 1994 conviction. the strasbourg court, condemning the 1994 trial as illegal in many respects, had asked for a new trial. the conviction is not based on the record of this trial, but explicitly refers to the 1994 conviction. the behaviour of the state security court in ankara has therefore offended not only the european union but also the strasbourg court. i 've been to every court hearing in this case . the rights of the defence have been violated in the most flagrant manner; in particular, in order not to be lengthy, the defence was denied any possibility of objectively verifying the statements made by the prosecution's witnesses. the court's sole concern in its conduct during 14 hearings was to protect the 1994 judgment. i shall not add any general remarks, because i agree with what has been said by my predecessors. the european commission will make its proposal in october on whether and when to open accession negotiations with turkey. i think, having heard the commissioner, that the european commission's assessment will be conscientious. i also think, having listened to my colleagues, that the future parliament will consider conscientiously whether or not to open or whether to open immediately the accession negotiations with turkey to the european union. now, frankly, the conditions for opening negotiations do not exist.
mr president, i think i can say to you and to my colleagues that the explanations which mr barón crespo has just given us are the saddest i have heard in ten years of parliamentary life here. (applause from the right) i would also like to point out that in his letter to president cox, my colleague barón crespo, in quoting the words published yesterday in the corriere della sera under my signature, has completely misrepresented the word by substituting it. this is serious, mr barón crespo, because i wrote that the committee on civil liberties had violated certain procedures of the rules of procedure, for which i wrote to president cox, to which he replied and to which i replied. the only difference between saying 'he violated certain procedures' and saying 'systematic violations' is whether or not he has intellectual integrity. it means black and white. it is one thing to raise a few points, it is another to say that there has been a systematic failure to comply with our rules of procedure. let me conclude, mr president, by making a comment. you said that yesterday the house voted on something which is, however, the sole responsibility of the president, but because we chose - or rather, because he chose - article 130 (3), without taking into account that the first paragraph, which is of an orderly nature, says that amendments are to be voted on first and then the text, we have - or perhaps not we, but someone here who had the responsibility - betrayed the sense of democracy in this parliament. (applause from the right)
i take the floor to declare that, in view of the vulnus, the injury inflicted yesterday in this house and today on the bureau, on the freedom of members and their right to exercise their mandate, the group of the european people's party will not take part in the vote on this report. we also object to the use of this house for purely instrumental purposes, choosing who gets to speak and who does not. it's a relief that this system is still in place! democracy must be respected first and foremost in this chamber, and not by statements in the newspapers or by insults! (applause from the right)
mr president, quite simply, very calmly and also to get out of this fight between old accomplices - a mafia-style fight, more than a parliamentary one - i would respectfully hope that, in view of this situation and this debate, the president of parliament would honour us directly with his presidency in this house. i think that does not detract from your excellent capacity as president, mr martin, but i think that president cox could come himself, with his authority - and i would say with clarity - to chair this sitting.
mr president, i would point out that under rule 130 (3) we are prepared to violate the rules of procedure of this house systematically at every vote. paragraph 3 of the resolution reads as follows: the president may put the basic text to the vote first, or put an amendment which departs least from the basic text to the vote before the one which departs most from it. i ask you, on the basis of the decision taken yesterday by this parliament, which arbitrarily annulled 350 amendments: if we were to cancel a paragraph of the text, what would we vote on, since there is no amendment available? we shall have a rough text, with many holes, which can only do good for the truth, given the contents of this report; but it is a very serious further breach of the rules of procedure which we are forced to make - or those who will vote are forced to make - on the basis of the disastrous decision taken yesterday by president cox not to decide and to demand from this parliament the decision to put to the vote the original text, understood as the consolidated text which has come out of the committee on civil liberties: the commission has not yet adopted the amendments which it has tabled. that is a distortion, to which is added another, which i have pointed out under the rules of procedure. i say to my colleagues who are not aware of this matter that they have the last opportunity to eliminate a serious injustice, a precedent which could become dangerous for the future, by voting for referral back to committee or by voting against this report.
mr president, i would just like to say that this decision of the president - because it was such a decision - was taken in a way that was practically forced, because a part of this parliament wanted to prevent the majority from taking a decision. it is a forcing which responds to the forcing which they have done with obstructionism, in the sense that it is an exceptional measure, consistent with the powers given to the president of parliament. that is the situation we have today, a situation which is unprecedented and which i hope the ppe group - which is a large group in this parliament - will really want to reflect on, so that we are not forced to find ourselves in this situation again. (applause from the centre and the left)
mr president, i was afraid that after denying us the right to table amendments, you would also deny us the right to speak! fortunately, that is not the case. i would ask you, mr president, to indicate to amendment no 44 what is written on the ballot. here are two words that were deemed unacceptable: the words 'serious' and 'persistent'. please emphasize that. you put the amendment to the vote without this underlining.
i would ask the president to vote on blocks of amendments together when a part of the house is against. however, i would inform my colleagues that by voting for paragraph 62 they condemned the italian governments of the last decades, including the d'alema government. i hope they will let their constituents, the centre-left and everyone else know this. (applause from the right)
mr president, you said that we should vote in blocs, not on amendments but on paragraphs. we are therefore not following the rules of procedure. the rules of procedure provide for a block vote on amendments and not parts of the text.
i apologize to you and my colleagues, mr president, but as shadow rapporteur i have a duty to watch over the little bit of regularity that remains in this vote. you voted, if i am not mistaken, on recitals 1 to 14, but recital 12 was declared inadmissible because it includes the two petitions which no committee on petitions has ever presented to our committee. recital 12 is therefore not to be read in the text. i would also like to wish the sitting service well in its task of correcting certain paragraphs. 59 and 69, for example, if you take out the name of president berlusconi, they remain without subject, phrases that have no meaning: there's a verb, some adjectives, but no subject. it would have been more serious to delete the whole paragraph. i do not want to insult you, mr president, by asking you to read to me, out of curiosity, how an accommodation of this paragraph 59 might end. it's not possible, we don't have a subject: who does what it says here? who has the consequences of what is indicated here? it's a mess, mr president, a very bad mess!
- mr president, as the irish presidency confirmed yesterday during the debate on the de keyser report, the union is following with great concern the repression against the vietnamese mountain people. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the rapporteur, to add a few words to paragraph 4 on the protection of the interests of indigenous peoples and minorities, reflecting a situation which was also the subject of a report just a week ago. the text would read: "the defence of the interests of indigenous peoples and minorities such as the vietnamese mountain people, who are victims of systematic repression". i would like to take this opportunity to express my agreement with the rapporteur.
in writing. - (it) the we would fully support - and we would have done so long ago - a serious and appropriate condemnation of illegality and lack of democracy, not just in the case of accurate and acceptable information. as regards the specific question of information, our criticism of the italian situation would have been much more radical, but that is because mr berlusconi - who presented himself as an alternative to the italian situation of illegality and lack of democracy - has today become the last in the long line of persons who for the second time risk infecting europe with a kind of 'italian plague'. those who are now accusing mr berlusconi are the same people who for decades created, practiced and dictated the basis for what is still happening in italy today, and which has obviously got worse. that is why i and the other radical members voted against mrs boogerd-quaak's report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not everyone is given the opportunity to live through a historic moment like this: i am convinced that the european parliament will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am convinced that the european parliament will be able to play a part in the debate on the future of the union. it is a great privilege that we should be proud of and grateful to all the men and women who have brought us to this day. europe is not united today: it is united for the first time, and it is united today as it has never been in its history, because it has never been on the basis of democracy and the free will of the people. these days, watching television or attending the celebrations for the enlargement, i am often surprised by the memory of my grandfather roberto: born in 1899 in a small town in the province of mantua, italy, he was one of the last boys to be sent to the front during the first world war. it is also to him and to all like him that this day, today, must be dedicated. only three generations, and here we are, celebrating an unthinkable and long-unthinkable event. how many of us today have these same memories and these same pains, only that until now they were marked by flags of different colors? today our joy has the same colors and the same wonderful music. but this unification, and this is something that we all need to know and we all need to tell ourselves, is not complete. it is also unnecessary to deny that the joy we feel today - here, we, perhaps a little bit - the workers - is less intense and more distracted in the streets of our city, among the people. this is our challenge, the challenge of our generation: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and its role in the process of european integration is of vital importance to the european union. in the coming months, before the end of this year, we have three great opportunities to play together, even to win over those who still do not measure or believe in the greatness of this day: the first of these - and this has already been said - is the constitution. today we still have no constitution and the negotiations have resumed, perhaps, but those who still want to do so are certainly very aggressive. we don't have it yet, we're not sure we have a constitution like we want. we must repeat it here today clearly: the constitution we want is the one adopted by the convention and not the one that has been partly promoted at the last summits and during the last intergovernmental conferences. the europe we want, the constitution we want are still in danger, they are not yet achieved. so we all have to do something. the second issue on which we must work - and possibly conclude by the end of this year - all together in this chamber, but also to the commission and the council, is the cyprus question. there 's no use in being hypocritical here either . enlargement will not be complete and real until the last european wall has fallen. this is a matter, i repeat, for all of us, because unfortunately this wall is still there. the third and last issue which must motivate us before the end of this year, and which is certainly urgent, is the war in iraq. the european union, old and new, has not been able to stop it, and we must also be aware of this. preparing for and having peace in that country, in that region, is a responsibility of all of us, which we must assume quickly and urgently, otherwise this day, like some others, will be just a set of rhetoric. (applause) i would like to thank
council. mr president, if jean monnet were standing here today, surveying this parliament he would have good reason to rejoice. he would see representatives of 25 countries and 450 million people sitting side-by-side, striving together for the common welfare of the people of europe. he would see a parliament in which parties operate on a cross-national and sometimes pan-european basis, where representatives from across our continent find as much common cause with colleagues from other countries as they do with their own compatriots. if monnet were to look beyond this parliament today, he would see countries which for centuries had been bitter enemies working hand-in-hand as convinced partners. he would have reason to rejoice. like monnet, spinelli was a man of vision. his vision of a democratic and transparent citizens' union gave impetus to the idea that a constitutional treaty would enhance the union's credibility. it gave impetus also to the idea that we the citizens deserved a union that was comprehensible to us and working in our interests. monnet hoped to make war between the nations of europe not just unthinkable but materially impossible. today we can see that the dream is closer than ever to becoming a reality. john hume, the nobel laureate and member of this house, once said: 'our european union has become the most successful peace process in europe's long history'. the two men – monnet and spinelli – were different in many ways. monnet tended to work quietly behind the scenes, using his legendary international networking skills to build the widest case for a new europe. monnet laid the foundations for this enterprise. spinelli, on the other hand, was a much more public figure, a vigorous opponent of fascism in the first half of the last century; in his later days an elected member of this parliament. they shared, however, a vital similarity: they were men of action, determined to harness their vision of a democratic, peaceful and prosperous europe to the means of advancing it in the real world. what was it about these men that has allowed the ideas they promoted many decades ago to create the impetus which, even after their deaths, propels all of us forward to continue their work? perhaps monnet's biographer, françois duchêne, described his subject best when he wrote that monnet's secret 'came from a combination of creative and critical faculties. he appealed to the romantic in people through the idealism of his goals, and to the expert in them through the realism of his means. ' making a new, peaceful europe was monnet's greatest dream. twenty-five years after his death we continue to build on the foundations he laid. spinelli, like monnet, believed that, without radical positive change, europe would be condemned to repeat its past fatal errors and endanger its future existence. in 1947 he suggested that 'nothing is sadder than the fact that the ideal europe, the cradle of law and liberty, constitutes only part of the geographical area of europe. what is more', he added, 'that area is certain to shrink and european civilisation to become a mere historical memory, unless we can at least unite what at present remains of it.' the european union has risen to this challenge. what drove both men was their experience and their abhorrence of war. however, as they sought to communicate ideas and goals that would help rescue europe from itself they could hardly have thought that from the rubble of the second world war such a strong, united europe would come about. sixty years ago europe was struggling with the last phase of the most destructive war in its history. against this background the european union, in spite of its imperfections, is a heroic endeavour undertaken against great odds. it has a record of assisting peace and prosperity among european nations and beyond, when history seemed to insist that such a goal amounted to little more than a flight of fancy. last saturday we witnessed an extraordinary reversal of history with the formal ending of the artificial divisions of europe. the enlargement of the european union to 25 member states is a tribute to the potency of a dream. it is also a tribute to the endurance and courage of many millions in central and eastern europe who often suffered for dreaming those dreams aloud. the budapest uprising of 1956, the prague spring of 1968 and the baltic singing revolutions of 1990 have contributed to the construction of a europe at the outset of the 21st century that few europeans would have dreamed of throughout the previous 2000 years of our troubled history. the french writer victor hugo said in 1849 that a day would come when 'all you nations of the continent, without losing your distinct qualities and glorious individuality, will merge into a higher unity and found the european brotherhood'. that day is upon us. now is not the time for complacency to find a home in the new europe. we cannot simply stand back and admire our handiwork. now is the time for new ambitions. on saturday the president of ireland said: 'our continent is ancient but our union is young'. we still have work to do and ambitions that remain unfulfilled. mr president, as you said, one of those ambitions must be the constitutional treaty and its very early completion. we must be careful to protect the freedom, justice, human rights, and political pluralism that that are the bedrocks of our union. we must continue to build on the peace that monnet saw replacing the deadly rivalries of his generation and their ancestors. we must also ensure that the new needs and circumstances of the union are reflected in its basic law. on the 20th anniversary of the adoption by parliament of spinelli's draft constitutional treaty we must work to agree a new treaty that will improve the basis for democratic discourse in our union, that will build on the success of our union, and that will make the union more readily understood and effective. the first major task we face together in the new union will be to agree the new constitutional treaty. in march we decided to reach agreement at the latest by the june european council meeting – just six weeks away. early agreement on a new treaty that allows the union to develop and prosper is the best way to commemorate the work of jean monnet and to mark the 20th anniversary of this parliament's draft constitution which was presented by spinelli. that is the challenge that faces us over the next few weeks – working together we will meet that challenge even as we meet here today, representatives from the 25 member states meet in dublin to hammer out details in relation to the treaty. we wish them well in that work. the whole of europe is looking to them to fulfil the dream of spinelli and monnet. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has had the excellent idea of paying tribute to the memory of jean monnet and altiero spinelli at the last session of its fifth term as a house elected by universal suffrage. although they are not the only founding fathers of europe, jean monnet and altiero spinelli represent perhaps more than any other, by their vision and their concrete action, the incredible evolution that europe has experienced since the second world war. jean monnet taught us what we had to do, and in the declaration of 9 may 1950 he wrote: 'europe will not be built all at once or in a joint effort: it will be built through concrete achievements, which first create a de facto solidarity'. this simple phrase showed the way forward, the way we have been going since the 1950s: concrete achievements to create a de facto solidarity. the famous policy of step by step. i am convinced that the enlargement of the union on 1 may, which will not be the last, is a striking example of this principle. but this simple statement also indicates the final destination of this path: europe, the joint work. solidarity is now a reality and europe is preparing to adopt its constitutional treaty. jean monnet lays the foundations of the present european union and sets out the method for achieving it. with his own concrete achievements, in particular as the first president of the ecsc high authority and, above all, as a constant and determined inspirer of the further development of european integration. the committee of action for a united states of europe, which he promoted for 20 years, gave rise to a large number of fruitful ideas which have subsequently been put into practice. i would like to remind everyone of your support for the direct election of the european parliament, which is what made it possible for us to be where we are today, with a parliament that really has legislative and supervisory powers. jean monnet died 25 years ago, shortly before the first european elections, which elected altiero spinelli to the european parliament. like monnet, spinelli offered europe his vision and his achievements. i remember that you were a european commissioner before you became a member of the european parliament. today we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the adoption by the european parliament of the draft treaty establishing the european union, commonly and rightly called the 'spinelli project', for spinelli was not only the rapporteur but also the inspiration behind it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the 1984 draft thus launched the process in the union which led to the successive revisions of the treaty of rome, the single european act, the maastricht treaty, the treaty of amsterdam and the treaty of nice, and subsequently to the constitutional reflection which is enshrined in the framework of the last european convention. the spinelli project was innovative in several respects, eight years before the maastricht treaty, it advocated the creation, on the basis of the european community, of a genuine european union. several key provisions of the maastricht treaty derive directly from the spinelli project, such as those relating to citizenship of the union, respect for fundamental rights and the introduction of the principle of subsidiarity in the allocation and exercise of the union's competences. the amsterdam treaty included the idea of providing for the possibility of imposing sanctions on a state in the event of a serious and persistent breach of the democratic principles or of the fundamental rights on which we are founded. there are other provisions which announced 20 years in advance the draft constitutional treaty drawn up by the convention. i would refer in particular to the explicit expression of the primacy of union law, the introduction of the concept of union law, limited to the fundamental principles of union action, the commission's task of starting the programming of union activities or parliament's final word on budgetary matters. finally, it may be necessary to wait until a new phase of european integration begins before introducing some additional provisions. i am reminded in particular of article 82 of the spinelli project, which provided that when the treaty had been ratified by a majority of states representing two thirds of the total population of the union, the governments of the states which had ratified it would meet immediately to decide by common accord on the procedures and the date of entry into force of the new treaty, as well as on relations with the states which had not yet ratified it. this is something that in a union of 25 or more states will inevitably have to be considered. in any event, the spinelli project proposes the idea of founding the union on a basic treaty which would be a true constitution for europe and thus become the 'work of the whole' which jean monnet considered to be the inevitable consequence of concrete achievements. these two men, so different in culture and temperament, maintained a collaboration throughout the 1950s. the visionary spinelli thus proposed concrete solutions to the pragmatic monnet, who in turn expressed his vision of europe in his proposals to the various governments. this mixture of pragmatism and idealism is what is most needed in the present european situation. the challenges are different, but the method is still valid. we need will and determination, generosity and ambition for a europe of peace and prosperity, of values and civilization, working for a world of solidarity: our europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for your words of appreciation to the committee on constitutional affairs and to those who have chaired it over the past five years. you see, mr president, it is important that the history of the building of a united europe, which began more than 50 years ago, should become part of the common memory of the peoples represented in this parliament today: it is a story to be reconstructed and retraced through the dates and milestones that marked it and through the figures of its protagonists. today we celebrate two who were not men of government, who did not sign treaties, who did not operate in the spotlight reserved for the powerful, but who were great prophets and builders, both jean monnet and altiero spinelli. both were convinced that europe, divided and bloodied by two devastating wars in the first half of the 20th century, had no future except in its unity, in overcoming nationalism, antagonism and hostility between national states. they pointed the way to the search for a common european interest, to the creation of institutions capable of expressing and pursuing it through the exercise of shared sovereignty. if it is true that monnet and spinelli took different approaches and strategies to advance the cause of european unity, it is even more true that their ideal was the same and that it became for both of them the commitment of a lifetime. the strategy of jean monnet and the great french statesman robert schuman, whose valuable adviser he was, was based on the integration of production, starting with coal and steel, between the economies and the markets of the countries participating in the project, as a strategy for the gradual advancement of european construction. it was described as functionalist, aimed at laying the concrete foundations for peace in europe, peace first of all between france and germany, and gave birth to the communities which remained in operation until the maastricht treaty of 1991. the strategy of altiero spinelli, on the other hand, was characterized as a constitutive strategy, the political foundation of european unity according to a federalist design, and found support in the vision of a great italian statesman: i'm not sure. but at critical moments, for example in 1955, when the process of integration seemed to be stalled after the failure of the attempt to create a european defence community, the efforts of monnet and spinelli, though following different paths, converged in the same direction. "monnet and i", spinelli wrote, "are pulling the cart like two stubborn donkeys: he hoped to get a new initiative from the governments. i, in the hope of getting a new impetus from the movement, a new impulse from below. despite our own skepticism and all the obstacles, we will win. and so it was. that prophecy will come true: the europeans won, the tenacious builders and fighters like monnet and spinelli. we have now reached, mr president, goals which even they did not dare to hope for, and the dream of a european constitution can finally be realized: the european parliament adopted the draft resolution by a large majority on 14 february 1984, following the work of altiero spinelli. we are also celebrating that date, which we are celebrating today, as the birth date of the constituent process. twenty years later, the dream has become a vital necessity for the new great europe. the constituent process must finally be completed by the approval of the draft adopted by the convention on the future of europe. there's no stopping it, there's no going back. that draft constitution is not perfect, but it represents the meeting point between governments and parliaments that has been worked so hard to achieve. it could be improved by drawing on the spinelli project of 20 years ago, for example where it was established - mrs de palacio has already mentioned this - that the treaty would enter into force as soon as it had been ratified by a majority of the states and of the community population. the text of the convention could be improved; the european union must not be weakened, because then the newly born union of 25 will be in danger of paralysis and crisis. and then no government, no government among those sitting in the intergovernmental conference will withdraw its word, will withdraw the consent expressed in the convention: this is the appeal that the european parliament once again makes to everyone. this is the best way to honour altiero spinelli and jean monnet in action, without rhetoric. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, the europe of jean monnet and altiero spinelli was not in europe. in europe, people and institutions were united: nazi berlin, fascist rome, vichy paris, and spain and portugal, they were united! the europe of the homelands was not the europe of the vingt-et-un manifesto; it was only the europe of the holocaust. in the history of europe, there has been only one time when the people of europe have been united: we are not just a jewish people from all over europe, a people of diversity, a homosexual or a roma people, a people of the holocaust. this was europe! and the europe of feasting, feasting, hanging, and what i don't even want to keep naming anymore... then europe was in prison or murdered, our europe: he was with thomas mann, einstein, maybe marlene dietrich. he was with don sturzo, with salvemini, with fermi. europe was outside europe, and we can only reclaim those roots if we conceive of a europe based on european reform and not on the counter-reform of von papen and cardinal pacelli; the europe of the white rose, the europe of reform, and not of the mystifications of communism, fascism, nationalism or the roman taliban. we must be clear about this, mr president. you're about to celebrate something that has nothing to do with spinelli's drawing; tomorrow you will approve the europe of the fatherlands between social democrats and gaullists. europe spinelli saw it in the council, as in america in the american senate, not in the project but in the design. until we have that american federalism and the federalism of the united states of europe, i believe we will find ourselves like the popular front in paris, sitting on red flags and trenches, betraying spanish legality, making the pyrenees the place of death in madrid, while fascists and nazis came to spain to kill. then i prefer to remember salvador de madariaga and many others: this is altiero's europe! i beg you, mr president: i would like to ask the commissioner to ensure that the ventotene manifesto, with the project we are talking about, is published not only in all our european languages but also in arabic and chinese, because they are in dire need of that aspiration, that story and those faces today. (applause) i would like to thank
president roche, there is a fundamental difference between the work on the constitution in the convention and that in the intergovernmental conference, which i fear will have only a clear and negative impact on its outcome. the whole convention was visible, the crises and other moments. it was the result of a complicated process that led to a barely sufficient compromise. but your work remains secret, and we have to rely on some informant to find out what is going on, because unfortunately our representatives and their officials also like to play at being diplomats and therefore do not tell us, as they should, what is really going on at the intergovernmental conference. i tell her that what's really going on here doesn't please me at all, and my group even less. behind a facade of optimism, which sprays a kind of reassuring molasses on the media and public opinion, there is, in my view, in reality, a further possible victory for those governments, old and new, which are happily ignoring the european interest. i think the commission shares this view, and after much ceremony and diplomacy, it has presented us with a line which is going in a completely different direction from that which is about to be agreed in dublin. if we read the text that your officials are working on today, mr president, we will see that we are faced with an exercise for which altiero spinelli would have repeated the story of 'the old man and the sea', which, as you will recall, returned to shore with its biggest fish and was then eaten by sharks. president roche said he didn't want to go into details. what a shame! if he did, everyone could see the price we are about to pay, among others, for blair and his referendum: firstly, the maintenance of unanimity on justice and home affairs, with a good deal of peace on the fight against terrorism, which is likely to see an interesting episode today with the question of the transfer of the rights of european citizens to the united states as regards the passenger agreement; secondly, the strengthening of the interpretative clause of the charter of fundamental rights, introduced by the united kingdom in thessaloniki, which virtually renders the charter of fundamental rights and its cognition virtual; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, therefore, we are faced with a radically different situation from that of yesterday: yesterday was the day of the dream come true; i would not, of course, like to see us preparing ourselves today to pick up the pieces of a dream that has already been shattered. i believe that the first duty we have today is to let the people know that the terms on which the presidency has chosen to negotiate are the same terms which this parliament rejected in december; the second is to start a serious debate about what the consequences of a 'no' vote on a referendum should be, which i think should be very clear: anyone who says 'no' to a referendum on the constitution, as spinelli said, is out of europe.
mr president, the europe that is being born these days is putting an end to the sad era of the great dictatorships that bled our continent in the last century. the new europe is not the europe of enlargement, however; it is the europe of reunification. finally, they are becoming partakers of a great area of peace and freedom, countries and peoples who have had to endure the communist dictatorship. welcome, colleagues from the countries of eastern europe! but we cannot think of a federation of nation-states that does not have a fundamental law governing the relations between institutions and citizens: this is why it is important to sign the constitution as soon as possible, based on the principles of freedom, subsidiarity, the centrality of the person and the promotion of a social market economy. europe cannot, however, renounce its judeo-christian roots: i am the bridge that connects the west with the east, i am the real link that connects half a billion people; the commission's proposals are the guarantee of the secularity of the institutions, and here we recall the evangelical precept: "render to god the things that are god's, but to caesar the things that are caesar's". we ask that this reference be in the preamble of our constitution, as it is in the flag: do you know that the twelve stars represent the twelve tribes of israel and are worn on mary's head? why not take the text of the polish constitution for example, as the european people's party has repeatedly urged during the debate on the convention, where there is an explicit reference to the word god? that is an example which the friends who are now members of this parliament can give us, an example which we believe the whole of europe should follow.
- i did not give you the floor for a point of order, mrs duthu, but simply because the members who - as we began our work yesterday - as usual wanted to speak for a minute on matters of interest to them, were not able to do so because of the solemnity of the sitting.
i come to you, mr president, with a request to use your office to send, i think on behalf of all of us, our condolences to mr anastassiadis, who was the victim of an attack yesterday in cyprus, where bombs were thrown at his house. as we know, mr anastassiadis is the leader of the 'yes' front in the referendum. i think it is important that this fact be remembered today, at this sitting, simply by expressing the solidarity of our institution in this respect.
- i can tell you, mrs frassoni, that the president has already contacted the man who was unfortunately directly involved and expressed his own and the whole of parliament's great solidarity.
- thank you for your punctuality, mr. matsakis.
- the next item is the continuation of the general debate on the statements by the council and the commission on enlarged europe and its neighbours.
commission. mr president, one of the tasks of the enlarged european union will be the continuation of the enlargement process. our common target is to carry through the accession process for bulgaria and romania in 2007. this of course depends on whether both countries complete negotiations and all necessary internal reforms. 2004 will also be decisive for turkey and the report and recommendation to be brought forward by the commission in the autumn will be one of the last big decisions of our mandate. turkey's chances depends on its fulfilment of the political criteria, as was the case for all the other candidate countries. the sequence is clear. first the political criteria and then the negotiations. as regards the western balkan states, as you are aware, the thessaloniki european council last year fully supported the european perspective of the western balkan states becoming an integral part of the european union once they meet the conditions for accession and the so-called political and economic criteria and they can demonstrate that they are ready to assume the obligations of membership. two weeks ago my colleagues, commissioners patten and verheugen, presented to you the commission's opinion on croatia's accession and the commission concluded that croatia fulfils the political criteria for membership and has recommended the opening of negotiations. this is now likely to be taken up by the european council in june. this house has always shown its full support for and engagement in the enlargement process. my colleague commissioner verheugen would have liked to have been here today. in march he debated with this house the last steps in the accession of the ten new member states which joined us last week and on the accession prospects for romania and bulgaria, as well as the current state of play for turkey. less than two weeks ago, he reported to this plenary on the final preparations for the accession of cyprus, recalling once again the clear preference of the eu for a united cyprus to join the union. as we have all seen in the meantime, this desire on the part of the union was not fulfilled and, as a result of democratic referenda held on the island on 24 april, the annan plan for the reunification of the island was rejected. the commission deeply regretted that the greek cypriot community did not approve the comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem, but we have to respect the democratic decision of the people. the commission warmly congratulated the turkish cypriots for their 'yes' vote. this signals a clear desire by the community to resolve the island's problem. last week parliament's committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy engaged in a lively debate in the wake of the referenda result and on that occasion commissioner verheugen stressed the commitment of the eu to come forward with comprehensive proposals to put an end to the isolation of the turkish cypriot community and to facilitate the reunification of cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community. the commission was invited to do so by the council at its meeting in luxembourg on 26 april, and financial support totalling eur 259 million will be earmarked for this purpose. the commission has already initiated the necessary planning to that end and intends to bring forward comprehensive proposals on trade and aid measures within the coming weeks. a new spirit of cooperation between the two communities will be necessary for the implementation of the announced measures. at this stage, i can only recall the position of the commission that the turkish cypriots must not be punished by this situation and that we will help them to overcome their economic isolation, as well as continue to bring them closer to the union. let me turn now to our neighbours outside the enlarged eu. last autumn this house had an opportunity to debate the european neighbourhood policy. this policy has been developed as a response to the new opportunities and challenges created by enlargement. together the union offers an ambitious policy to our neighbours in the east and the south, based on shared values and common interests, and aiming at preventing the creation of new dividing lines in and around our continent, and at expanding the area of peace, stability and prosperity. the european neighbourhood policy is distinct from the issue of possible accession to the eu. though we are not closing doors, the european neighbourhood policy is not about future enlargements since it is addressed to neighbours who do not currently have the prospect of accession. at this stage, we will build on the existing institutional framework of our relations, the association or partnership and cooperation agreements. differentiation is a key notion to the european neighbourhood policy. it results from the different situations of each partner, as well as of its relationship with the union. the european neighbourhood policy is based on the principle of joint ownership in line with the european union's approach that political and economic reform cannot be imposed and that successful cooperation can only build on mutual interests and the principle of equality of partners. in the course of the last months, we have been working out the various aspects of this new policy and we are preparing, in close consultation with partners, a first package of action plans to be jointly adopted with them. these actions plans will set out the agreed priorities of our relationships in key areas, as well as mechanisms to ensure their timely implementation. next week the commission will present a strategy document on the european neighbourhood policy, together with country reports on this first group of countries. the action plans will provide new political momentum to the union's relations with partner countries. the action plans will focus on political dialogue and reform, trade, market and regulatory reform, cooperation in the fields of energy, transport, the information society, the environment and people-to-people contacts. the content and priorities agreed with each partner country will differ and depend on its particular circumstances. the plans will identify key actions in a limited number of priority fields and include a clear time horizon. the action plans are expected to be adopted later this summer.
council. mr president, i welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate on cyprus on behalf of the council. three days ago, on 1 may, a new chapter was written in the history of europe. it is no exaggeration to say that the accession of ten member states marks a truly historic moment. in effect, it brings an end to the tragic post-war divisions in europe. it does not, however, bring a complete end to divisions within our continent. the republic of cyprus has taken its place as a full member state of the european union. it is no secret that the clear preference of the european union was for the accession of a united cyprus on 1 may. we greatly regret that following the outcome of the referenda in cyprus on 24 april, it was not possible to achieve this objective. i would like today to echo the strong words from the meeting of the general affairs and external relations council in luxembourg on 26 april. the council indicated its determination to ensure that the people of cyprus will soon achieve their shared destiny as citizens of a united cyprus in the european union. we accept, however, that the people of cyprus have made a democratic choice. on 24 april, the people of both parts of cyprus voted in separate referenda on the settlement plan presented by the united nations secretary-general. the referenda were the culmination of a long and detailed negotiating process led by the united nations. it is important today, therefore, that i again emphasise in the european parliament the deep gratitude that the european union has for the determined and sustained efforts in the search for a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem by secretary-general annan, by his special adviser, mr alvaro de soto, and by their colleagues. they worked closely, and tirelessly, with the parties for a long period. we also recognise the very positive contributions made by the governments of greece and turkey. all in this house know and have reflected on the results of the referenda and there is little point in going further into the analysis at this point. the turkish cypriot community has now expressed its clear desire for a future within the european union. the council is determined to end the isolation of the turkish cypriots and to facilitate the reunification of the island by encouraging economic development. last week, the council took an important step with the adoption on 29 april of the regulation on a regime under article 2 of protocol 10 of the act of accession. the regulation was necessary for a smooth accession process. it provided the terms under which the relevant provisions of european union law are applied to the line between the northern part of cyprus, in which the application of the acquis communautaire is suspended, and the areas in which the government of cyprus is in control. the terms of the regulation will facilitate trade and other links across the line while ensuring that the appropriate standards of protection are maintained. i believe that the agreement reached on this regulation reflects clearly the desire of the council to send a signal of encouragement to the members of the turkish cypriot community that its future lies within a united cyprus and within the european union. the next step will be the presentation by the commission of the comprehensive proposal requested by the general affairs and external relations council. that will have a particular emphasis on the economic integration of the island and on improving contact between the two communities within the european union. the council has recommended that the eur 259 million that had been earmarked for the northern part of cyprus in the event of a settlement should now be used for this purpose. i welcome the intention of the commission to bring forward its comprehensive proposals within the coming weeks. there is a strong sympathy and a sense of respect in this parliament for the people of cyprus, of both communities, as they seek to overcome the legacy of a divided history. i have said here on more than one occasion that coming as i do from a divided island we understand very fully how difficult it is to heal the rifts. i regret that the accession celebrations in ireland on 1 may could not have included a celebration of a united cyprus in the european union, in fact i do so on a particularly personal note, because the celebrations for cyprus were held in my own home town and it would have been marvellous if we could have welcomed all of the people of cyprus there on that occasion. however, those who did come were very welcome. the statements and actions by the council since the referenda clearly confirm that the european union remains strongly committed to providing tangible assurance to the turkish cypriot community that its future will be in a united cyprus within the european union. on a personal note, i shall unfortunately have to leave before this debate ends. this is likely to be the last occasion on which i address this parliament. i want to thank very sincerely all the members of this parliament for the extraordinary courtesy and for the forbearance they have shown me during many debates in this chamber. i have seldom enjoyed an experience more than i have enjoyed addressing this parliament. i am not sure whether that enjoyment was reciprocated, but nonetheless, from my point of view my duties here were very pleasant and they were made all the more pleasant by the fact that i was able to make new friends and renew old acquaintances. in recent days this parliament has come in for some of the most uncalled for and scurrilous criticism, criticism which it does not deserve. this parliament serves the people of europe well. it is a model of parliamentary performance. it gets through its work in an efficient and effective way. undoubtedly it is not entirely made up of saints, but then very few human institutions are absolutely perfect. however, insofar as a parliamentary assembly is concerned, this comes as close to perfection as any assembly that i have ever addressed. it has been my pleasure to work with the members of this parliament. i wish those who are going into retirement all the very best for their retirement. i hope that they enjoy the years ahead of them. for those who are going into the election campaigns, i wish them well too, for safe campaigning and a very happy result. go raibh míle maith agaibh. (applause)
mr roche, the president is not normally allowed to clap, but this time i joined the applause of the other members for your very beautiful and kind words to a parliament which has had the opportunity to admire the work of the irish presidency at a very difficult moment. after these festive days, we naturally hope that there will be a new occasion for celebration - at least for a large number of members of the european parliament - when the european council takes place in june. but let me say that your thanks and kind words are returned. the groups in this parliament and the parliament as a whole have really appreciated - both in the individual meetings and thanks to your presence here in parliament - the great capacity of a small country to contribute to making these wonderful days of celebration go by in the best possible way and to making this 'first time' in history of a union of peoples, states, nations and citizens a reality. i would like to thank you very much, mr roche, and ask you to convey my thanks to the whole of the irish presidency.
mr president, i also want to thank the presidency, and mr roche in particular, for the way in which he has handled our dealings together. i also enjoyed it very much. i must say that sometimes i find it difficult to attack him because he is so nice and so it is difficult to say how much i disagree with the irish presidency. i thank him very much and it was a pleasure for my group too to work with the irish presidency. i have very little time so i just want to concentrate on the question of cyprus. we all share the sadness at the disappointing result of the referendum. i understand and i respect the response of the greek cypriots. i want to believe that they want a solution and that they are not happy with the status quo. but now it is time for them and for us to act. we have to act quickly and positively to ensure that agreement can still be reached this year. the greek cypriots should tell us their ideas to ensure that enlargement is completed and the rest of the european union must assist and remind them that this business cannot remain unfinished. i have two small suggestions. the first is for the commission and the council. to say that eur 289 million have been earmarked is quite good, but how much time elapses between earmarking and spending? i became very worried when i heard commissioner nielson talking about legal problems and complications. could the commission and the council give us a timetable for committing this money and solving the european union's formal problems with northern cyprus? the government of the republic of cyprus has a problem with the implementation of the law governing the european elections in cyprus. in order to be able to vote, greek cypriots, turkish cypriots, latin maronites and armenians have to be registered on the electoral roll for the european elections. unfortunately, the cypriot parliament took a decision requiring all cypriots to register themselves on the electoral roll. as a result of this procedure, only 503 out of an estimated 80 000 turkish cypriots are eligible to vote. this is too few. if the cypriot parliament decided to include on the electoral roll all persons who have either an id card or a passport issued by the republic of cyprus, 40 000 turkish cypriots could vote. i have two requests to the government of cyprus. firstly, people from both communities who are in possession of an id card or a passport from the republic of cyprus should automatically be entitled to vote. secondly, the government of cyprus should re-open the electoral roll over the next three weeks and make a public announcement in both communities and in both languages to ensure that those able to vote in the european elections do so.
- i hope, of course, mr gawlowski, that you will have the opportunity to return to parliament and speak many times, but next time the president - who will be a different one - will probably be a little stricter than me and interrupt you sooner.
madam president, allow me to extend my greetings and thanks to the irish presidency. the new europe of 25 has an important prospect: to take care of what's going on around her. the scenario is very challenging: the direct borders will affect countries with serious problems, such as ukraine and belarus, the latter governed by a government so authoritarian that it has justified the interruption of all official relations; the european parliament has also expressed its support for the peace plan proposed by mr mashkadov, which parliament has given its full support. and then the south, turkey, now on the eve of negotiations that could lead to its accession; and the middle east, the gulf, the maghreb and the mashreq. to tackle this challenge, europe must give itself a credible political face and a coherent strategy: at institutional level, only the constitution can ensure progress in this direction; on the political front, parliament, in its report on the future of an enlarged europe, adopted last november, insisted on the need for political dialogue with all the new neighbours, warning against piecemeal and economistic actions based solely on the liberalisation of markets. political dialogue, building common rules, sharing the same values and rights, foresight and respect for the views of other countries in dealing with complex issues such as immigration: this is the way forward if we are to avoid the risk of a rift between the union and its neighbours. let us not allow the walls we have torn down within us to rise up against our new frontiers!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the euphoria which has broken out in this parliament and which i also feel among the leading european politicians can be shared, but i naturally wonder: is this enthusiasm also present in the population? europe is without doubt a success story without parallel, i mention only the keywords of peacekeeping and trade frameworks. europe was born as an economic area and, above all, as the hope of creating peaceful cooperation in europe after 50 years of war. what is happening today - and this is perhaps the new big challenge - is that we are too small as individual states to position ourselves in a globalized world, but we are strong enough as a whole. but the whole thing will only succeed if we are able - and this parliament is also called upon to do this - to create a european consciousness in 450 million european minds. i doubt that it is there at the moment, and we will see how high the turnout is in the european elections. we need a constitution, we need a common foreign policy, but we must not lose sight of the value of the europe of the regions. we must, of course, as a community of values, bring values out as well as goods. only if we in europe are able to regain leadership in the areas where we were strong, especially in knowledge, will we have the credibility to export values such as quality of life as a whole, peacebuilding and sustainability as the basis of responsible policies. but with the aspirations that we have built up in our prosperous democracies in recent decades, it is not europe that will grow, but unemployment, poverty and corruption. that is why i believe that we, as individuals, regions, states and the eu as a whole, must set higher standards for ourselves. not the community, the state, the eu, but each part in itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's what makes us strong!
mr president, i appreciate the insistence with which the commissioner has returned today, at this stage of the closure of the legislature, to the need, as the last colleague who spoke mentioned, to have among the primary objectives the defence of the european way of life. there was a liberal wind, a unique thought that seemed to want to erase the idea of justice that in europe and in our countries gives dignity to politics. i am glad that the commissioner has made this point. in italy there is a booklet, a beautiful speech by president prodi, distributed in libraries, which indicates in this model of life what the great social democracies, christian thought for the social doctrine of the church, have built in our countries since the early 1900s, with different political experiences; and today we are different. i think that this should be our primary objective, and in 20 years we will be remembered not only for our history, for our christian roots, for the beauty of our cities, but also for having built a model of human relations among the most advanced in history behind us. i would like to conclude by expressing a concern today, at the end of this parliament's term of office: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, we must defend change, but be careful not to disrupt the security of young people! i wish the colleagues who will follow good work.
mr president, commissioner, in these five years the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice has occupied a large part of the work of the committee on civil liberties and justice, and we can say that important reforms and concrete steps have been taken towards the recognition of ever wider rights for citizens. now, as several colleagues have said, the borders of this new european union have widened far to the east and deeper into the mediterranean sea. the experience gained and the measures taken so far must be transferred to these new frontiers, in order to guarantee the safety of the citizens: schengen will only be an acceptable development when we have certain guarantees, more certain than those we have today. border control is a common problem - we must stress this again - not a private concern of individual external states. the instruments for achieving these synergies are europol and eurojust, which must be supported with conviction and, finally, with appropriate means. only then can we all together counter the dangers that threaten the area of freedom, security and justice: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. but above all, a commitment: the fight against terrorism. finally, there is a challenge, perhaps as important, for those of us who will be here in the next parliament: the european union is committed to the achievement of genuine european citizenship, speedy asylum procedures and genuine free and equal movement for all. i would like to conclude by thanking commissioner vitorino, without being sarcastic, for his speech and for his experience in this parliament. when i came here in 1994 i was told that to be a good member of parliament i should criticise, possibly argue with the commission every day. i couldn 't . i am not a good member of parliament, commissioner, or you are a good commissioner. i think that's the right answer.
mr president, towards the end of your speech you thanked the group chairmen; but let me remind you, too, that you know very well the existence of the unsubscribed. many of my colleagues who are not on the list would like to speak; i now avail myself of my position as having represented them, together with mr garaud, for many years in the conference of presidents, and i take this opportunity for the last time to speak, although, of course, not as a group, to respect, of course, the nature of the nonattached group, which we have spoken of on many occasions. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the committee on budgets. but let us say that the group is made up of several dozen members and that the next parliament will have to look at the matter more closely. i would like to join in the expressions of esteem and appreciation, both on my own behalf and on behalf of mrs garaud, for the role she has played, above all in defending this parliament, for the way in which she has managed to govern this house, regardless of the individual circumstances, the political judgment that each of us can make on her work. i would also like to pay my respects to her and wish her all the best for her political and personal future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an honour and a pleasure for me to report on the validation of the mandates of 162 members appointed by the ten new member states as from 1 may 2004, and of six members elected to replace others who had previously left office. we also stress today - and i believe i am expressing the sentiments of the whole house - the full participation in this parliament of colleagues who represent the citizens of the enlarged union. the rules of procedure, as the honourable members know, required that the procedure for verifying credentials be taken into account. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was required to submit to parliament, under rule 7 (2) of the rules of procedure, a report which was prepared, and for this reason, as amended by the other rules, we met last night in the committee on legal affairs. in view of the large number of checks on credentials to be carried out and the short time available, since we had to do so immediately, it was considered appropriate that the chairman of the committee on legal affairs should present this oral report to parliament, which is summed up in the announcement that, at yesterday's meeting, the committee on legal affairs carried out a check on the credentials of 168 members. we have examined the procedural documents, mr president, including the declaration of incompatibility and the declaration of financial interests. we have unanimously agreed that everything is in order and that it is therefore possible to recommend that this be done in a positive way. you have informed me that mr kalisz has taken up the post of minister, which is incompatible with the post of member of parliament: therefore, its mandate from 1 may 2004 to the present day should be validated. of course, we cannot proceed at this sitting to verify the powers of the successor. i too would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to thank you and the whole parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
in accordance with the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, i declare the first part-session following the elections to be open.
as a result of this universal vote, and despite its limitations, which we must also understand, a union of peoples and governments is being achieved for the first time, based on democracy and rights and not on the domination of one country over the others, as has happened many times in the history of our continent. the role of the european parliament is also growing, thanks to the positive experience of the past years and the rules of the new constitution being ratified, and the borders are being extended to 25 countries. i would like to welcome in particular the arrival of cyprus, estonia, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, the czech republic, the slovak republic, slovenia and hungary. the borders of 25 countries are being widened, and so are the boundaries of the european parliament's activities, of a europe which began as the community of coal, steel and nuclear energy, which then became the common market and hence the currency, to facilitate financial and commercial exchanges, and which is now beginning to become, by applying the lisbon agenda and the commitments of the european constitution, the europe of work, solidarity, social justice, welcome and integration, in a word, the europe of the people and its citizens. a europe open to the world, to the sufferings and aspirations of other peoples in all countries; the european union is open to peace and to the search for personal and collective security. composition of parliament - verification of credentials - constitution of political groups: see minutes of the hearing. (applause) i would like to thank
i have received, under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure, the following nominations for the office of president of the european parliament: the candidates have informed me that they accept their nominations. according to article 13 (1) of the rules of procedure, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in order to be elected. blank or blank ballots shall not be counted in the counting of the votes cast. (the president declared the electors' names to be drawn by lot) the following members were appointed as members of the committee: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i thank the three speakers for what they said and for respecting their speaking time. we will now proceed to the election.
i'm announcing the results of the presidential election. number of voters: 700 and blank or blank sheets: 53 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 647 and absolute majority for election in this ballot: 324 and they got: the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter. i would like to ask mr bronislaw geremek: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. 51 votes mr josé borrell fontelles obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and was therefore elected president of parliament.
mr president, the green group and the european free alliance also congratulate you on this election, although, as you know, the majority of my group has chosen another candidate, mr geremek, who represents this new europe that we are going to create today. however, you can be sure of the cooperation and loyalty with which our group will be prepared to work with you in the coming years, as it has already worked with the other presidents before you. we had proposed to your group another alliance, which we thought was possible and could have a majority in this parliament. we believe that the question of stability is certainly much less important than the readability of the political agreements that are made and also the readability of the laws that we will make as the european parliament. we therefore really hope that this vote and this unnatural alliance will be seen here for the last time today, because otherwise it will not be easy for the citizens to recognize in their parliament a body which visibly makes a clear, defined and determined european policy and which therefore accompanies them in their choices and in their policy. mr president, we find what our friend hans-gert poettering has said about president barroso somewhat worrying and we think that it would be interesting for the whole house to know what the socialist group will do about the election of president barroso and whether this too is really part of a package, as has been hoped. mr president, we believe that only by succeeding in creating majorities on the issues, on what the citizens really want, in a clear way and not through ambiguous and invisible alliances, will this parliament be able to be respected and european democracy be able to really be valid for all its citizens. i thank you and wish you a good job.
mr president, the uen group is working in europe to build a common commitment that will take us out of preconceived logics. we believe that we must all work together to strengthen a europe free from terrorism, discrimination and the temptation to monopolize, whether in the economic, political or cultural spheres. it is therefore vital that you are the president of the whole parliament and that parliament finds a more effective way of bringing citizens closer to our institutions and of involving them in our choices. mr president, in order to bring citizens closer to europe and europe closer to citizens, we must affirm in this house that it is our common commitment, in mutual respect, to finally find the way to broad and correct information. the work of parliament is too often not sufficiently known in our respective countries. mr president, in wishing you and this house a good day's work, may i, on behalf of our group, extend a warm and friendly greeting to mr geremek and remind him once again of the example he has set and sets for all of us and for the whole of europe.
mr president, i too thank the irish presidency for the smiling and elegant way in which it has led the presidency through a very difficult period and i particularly acknowledge the charming manner in which minister roche has managed in these months to never answer the questions i have put to him. the presidency has conducted the negotiations on the intergovernmental conference in a very kind manner, but it has reached a result that is far from the text adopted by the convention and 10 per cent - i am addressing this to mr hänsch - is very heavy. the inconsistencies between the first and third parts of the constitution, the limits and full operation of the bill of rights, the potential conflict between the president of the commission and the president of the council, the retention of the veto power in too many areas of competence, the exclusion of the european parliament from the ratification process are all serious backslidings, wisely led by the irish presidency. in the same way, the presidency has negotiated for the commission without ever consulting the european parliament, managing the naval battle, which is very depressing for any euro-enthusiast, between small and large states for this or that supercommissioner, to the appointment of a respectable gentleman, but who emerges above all as the statesman at the head of what we would like to be the government of europe. president ahern spoke about the asylum agreement. the sad story of the 37 african citizens who were for weeks forced to board the german ship cap anamur outside italian territorial waters and who are now illegally detained, shows quite clearly that europe is still silent on the question of asylum and that there is still a serious and dangerous confusion between asylum policy and the fight against illegal immigration, as president ahern has said. president ahern, the rights of migrants were a minor priority of your presidency, but even the lack of action on guantanamo and the quiet on the issue of pnr shows us that your presidency probably had other priorities. i thank you anyway. our group appreciated the cooperation with your presidency, but it is clear that once again the council has shown that it wants to be the head of the european union, while we would like it to share its power a little with the other institutions as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the irish presidency for the diplomacy, the method and the fairness with which it has undertaken its difficult task of achieving the objective of the constitution. i only regret that the italian presidency has not succeeded in doing so. i also thank president cox and commission president prodi, whose steadfast and determined action brought the legislature to a close, and together they achieved two major objectives: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. they were inspired by a different vision of europe, which today gives us a great europe, strengthened in democracy by the legal basis represented by the bill of rights and the constitution together: europe as a civil power. the exceptional mediation of the irish presidency, although not the best, gives us today what is essential to walk unitedly and to play a political and peaceful role in the world. parliament is now engaged in a major campaign in favour of the constitution for a successful outcome of the ratification process. i would therefore suggest, mr president, that a specific budget line be inserted to finance this initiative properly and properly, in order to raise the awareness of european citizens and bring them closer to our institutions.
mr president, we cannot but take a positive view of the irish presidency, which has worked effectively and has brought two major political results for the whole of the european union: the agreement on the first constitution and the choice of the new president of the commission, which parliament will have to vote on tomorrow. the work on the constitution has been absolutely positive. we have only one great regret: the preamble does not explicitly refer to the christian roots of the european union, which are the real bridge between western and eastern europe. we regret this and the european people's party will continue to fight so that europe never forgets its origins. however, the work of the irish presidency was positive and brought to a conclusion the work done in an outstanding way by the italian presidency which had reached agreement on 95 per cent of the work of the convention. it is no coincidence that this result has been recognised by all the countries of the european union which have decided to have the treaty signed in the capital of italy - the city of rome - which is not only a landmark in italian history but also an important landmark in the history of europe and the history of the european union. the second important and positive result was the choice of the new candidate for the presidency of the european commission. this is a result that respects the vote of 13 june and, at the same time, it is a recognition of the balance of the portuguese prime minister, a president of the commission who represents the renewal and a new way of interpreting the leadership of the executive, increasingly unattached to the small events of individual countries and increasingly bent on creating a europe allied to the united states, but also politically strong and a protagonist on the international stage.
mr president-in-office of the council, your presidency will be judged on two main issues: the financial perspective and the decision on turkey. on the first point, the green group/european free alliance remains very concerned because the values you insist on are not being put into practice by enthusiastically signing the famous 'letter of the tail' or by attacking the commission for daring to propose that the budget of the union of 25 should reach the ghostly figure of 1.14% of european gdp. we agree that the debate on the priorities for european union spending must be reopened. we would like to support your proposal to eliminate agricultural export subsidies or your questioning of some of the far-reaching and costly transeuropean network projects. it is not by indiscriminately saving that the european economic system is made ecologically and socially sustainable and also competitive. you yourself seem to admit this when you talk about the need to revive the european economy by stimulating employment, innovation and research. he also used the word sustainability, in these times of great fashion but for many of very little substance. yet there is much to be done in the next six months, encouraging not only manufacturing systems, but also governments to make environmentally sustainable decisions. for example, we could do a better job of implementing the kyoto protocol, resist the pressure from the chemical industry on the reach directive, really put the environmental technology action plan on the table, remove subsidies for jet fuel, call the bolkenstein directive into question. mr president, we shall meet again in six months' time to assess the sustainability of your presidency. finally, as regards turkey, we support your approach and are pleased that you have said that islam itself is not a subject for debate in the context of accession. this statement is particularly significant to us because it comes from a christian democrat. perhaps it can contribute to this discussion in other countries as well. that is where we can really count on our support.
mr president, the president of the european council has said that the elections in june were a historic event, with 732 representatives of 25 peoples of europe elected to this assembly. it is a historic event, but i do not hide my concern at the declining voter turnout in each election. at the moment, citizens have difficulty identifying with the european union, which they see as too distant from national realities and the specific legitimate interests which concern them. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. in order to inform and involve the citizens, we must ask for funds for information campaigns on the activities of the union and parliament, but we must also investigate the underlying reasons for the dissatisfaction of the electorate in many of our countries. it is time to say that euroscepticism, like euroenthusiasm, are two sides of the same coin which the citizens reject, because they are strongly demanding that there be a euro-realistic policy and a real application of the concept of subsidiarity. in other words, let europe do what the national states cannot do alone. in this eurorealist vision we think of a europe which actively deals with the problems of economic recovery in order to combat unemployment and increase development, a europe which is able to indicate its own way of leading globalisation without suffering from it again, as has happened so far, and to propose new economic rules which prevent further speculative bubbles. the rules of economics and finance, on which we base all our policies, belong to the last century and are outdated. we must identify new ones, adapted to the realities of the third millennium. europe must be united in the fight against terrorism and serious crime and in giving impetus to the growth of democracy in those countries where it is still denied. human rights, the dignity of the person, respect for freedom and the pursuit of peace cannot be merely documents signed by the three community institutions, but must become economic, political and cultural action towards those parts of the world where suffering and misery are tragic realities. in this context, we see the great urgency of a mediterranean policy which, after having laid down principles in the past, is now finally translated into concrete action. we must re-engage the community institutions to achieve development compatible with the times of adaptation of the human being, safeguarding the environment as a source of life and guarantee for the future of humanity and paying more attention to the concept of enterprise, even in its smallest and most artisanal dimension. mr president, the union for europe of nations group, in confirming its vote and wishing you a good job, would remind you that we certainly need a pilot in the cockpit of the plane, but we also need a president who knows how to walk through europe, to get to know others and to make himself known. otherwise we shall continue to hear the silent cry of the citizens who do not understand.
mr president, i wish the candidate barroso all the best. you said that we, the 732 members, are the voice of the people, and so, no group no talk, you are either in a group or you have little chance of speaking. that is very undemocratic. i would like to say that i very much appreciated some of the points in your speech, particularly those against discrimination and in favour of equal opportunities. i also heard someone say that the council should not be the doormat of the commission and that the commission or parliament should not be the doormat of the council. i am concerned that europe is not the doormat of the united states. that's the most important thing because that's how it's been so far. we must strengthen europe's political role, we must strengthen the christian values that unite us in europe and we must fight for what i believe are the most important social issues. there is little talk about childhood and very little talk about children being exploited, raped and used in wars as child soldiers. so i would really appreciate any input from you on these decisions and especially on these social steps.
mr president-in-office, at the hearing with the socialist group, when i asked you about your foreign policy and in particular the circumstances which led to your support for the decision to intervene unilaterally in iraq, you replied that as a politician and not a technocrate, you had to take a stand on that occasion. that means that by your candidacy you want to contribute to the politicization of european political life. you have insisted on this point many times today. however, i fear that this was not the logic which she brought and inspired the governments in nominating her as candidate, because she knows very well that politics presupposes that a dialectic is developed and that citizens are therefore able to understand what the alternatives are and to evaluate the differences between positions, especially when they touch on fundamental issues such as those of peace and war. that's also why many younger generations are deserting the ballot box, because they don't understand well what the alternatives are that politics offers them. however, the question i want to ask you today is another and it is just as important. you will be aware that on 22 april this parliament adopted a resolution on the risks of infringement of freedom of information in the european union and in italy in particular. after that vote, a trend towards media concentration continued in france and the new member states, while in italy a law on conflicts of interest was passed which keeps the ownership of television control in the hands of the president of the council. on the contrary, this parliament wanted to see legal instruments prohibiting political figures or candidates from having direct interests in the information sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. mr president, my question is therefore very specific and i hope your answer is as clear. will you follow up the european parliament's request and commit yourself to drawing up a draft directive to safeguard media pluralism? you have said that you want to give the commission weight, prestige and autonomy vis-à-vis the council and in alliance with parliament. do you think you can make that commitment today? if you get a first vote in favour in this house tomorrow, will this be included in your programme for october?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, as a new member of this house, it is a great honour for me to be taking part in such an important debate today as vice-president of the ppe group. president barroso, the europe you have described to us is based on a balance between integration and intergovernmental dialogue, and i appreciate and share your vision. in fact, you will be leading a europe which needs a policy based on a balance between national and supranational authorities, capable of intervening effectively in multilateral fora and in distant theatres within the enlarged union. president barroso, i am sure you will be able to balance the interests of small and large countries while preserving an essential mediterranean dimension to european identity. we also had the opportunity to appreciate its capacity to anchor the process of integration in the common atlantic identity. from global security to economic policy with the middle east, the common interests with our atlantic partner cannot be forgotten. president barroso, the union you want to help consolidate finds its consecration in the european constitution, a consecration which would be complete if we had included an indisputable reality, namely the fact that europe has in its christian roots the main unifying factor. we'll never get tired of saying it. but europe will also have to work on renewing its decisionmaking processes and institutions. the speed of the economy in a globalised society demands it. the european constitution is already moving in this direction, but we cannot and must not stand idly by while we await ratification by the member states. the european parliament, the council and the commission have recently approved an important interinstitutional agreement entitled 'better lawmaking' which, if fully implemented, will, among other things, make dialogue between the institutions easier and more transparent, avoid unnecessary legislation, promote alternative instruments such as self-regulation and co-regulation, and provide certainty for the transposition of legislative acts by the member states. it is also an agreement which should guarantee the rights of parliament. mr president, i have no doubt that the commission you are chairing will also play its full part in implementing the interinstitutional agreement. for this, he will need to build a strong team that can regain initiative and independence. mr president, you have a difficult but important task ahead of you. we wish you a good job and we hope you will have our full and loyal support.
mr president-designate, you know that my group has decided not to support your candidacy. we doubt that you will be the man of the council, somehow put there by the council to weaken the commission. it will be up to you to prove us wrong, and secularly we will be perfectly willing to admit we were wrong. i wanted to take this opportunity to highlight three issues that, if he is elected, we will be very keen to address. you said that being the portuguese prime minister and the president of the commission are two different things and when you were the portuguese prime minister you said that if there is to be a war between saddam and the united states it is clear that the united states must be chosen. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i shall come straight to the point that justified this demonstration which is very important to us. i think that my colleagues have a right to know - although i think most of them already know - why we have chosen to make this candidate barroso visible. at the moment there are nine governments in the council who are in favour of authorizing the entry of new gmos into the european union, nine are against and seven abstain. this means that the council is not in a position to express a position. eighty percent of the public is against gmos. nevertheless, the present commission has decided to use its powers and to systematically authorise new gmos with incalculable consequences for the quality of our products and for european agriculture. mr barroso, we believe that this is a very serious mistake. the current commissioner for the environment, however, believes that it is not necessary to label seeds contaminated by gmos below 0.5%, thus contradicting the position of the european parliament, which was adopted by a very large majority at the end of the last legislature. so, in a few years, all organic and non-organic crops will be contaminated. i know very well that you do not like this subject, and you made that clear to us in our meeting, hiding behind the notes that the commission and the commission services had prepared for you. however, if you are elected, we really invite you to look at this matter closely, we ask you to have courage and an open mind and to change the attitude of the present commission. we ask you not to be a slave to the multinational lobbies and to big brother america, because it is big brother america that wants to decide these matters. mr president-in-office, if i may, i would like to return to the issue i was talking about earlier, namely the war in iraq. i would ask you to give us some elements of the future in your answer. unfortunately, when you came to visit us, you failed to come out of a reclaiming of your choice as portuguese prime minister to support this war. i would ask you, then, also in relation to the relations which the commission will have with the united states, what political subject do you envisage as president of the future commission in your relations with the united states? at the moment we as the european union have an autonomous position on a number of issues and i want to know how you intend to act in foreign policy, but also on the issues on which we differ, namely guantanamo, the wto and kyoto, because your answers have been a little vague and more like a portuguese prime minister than a future president of the commission. (applause from the green group)
mr president-designate, together with my colleague, mr marco pannella, we will support your nomination, and we will support it first and foremost for institutional reasons. we believe that only a commission with strong parliamentary support can play its role, which, as the treaties themselves say, must first of all express a strong bond between parliament and the commission. these are the natural alliances for anyone who believes in the evolution of european institutions. but let me make a comment and also a recommendation for parliamentary support which i hope will be strong. firstly, you mentioned widespread euro-apathy in europe, which was expressed in the recent elections. it seems to me that this euro-apathy is exactly the consequence, the other mirror of the medal, of the apathy of the european institutions and of european leadership, starting with ourselves, starting with the fact that almost all of them have campaigned on national issues, starting with the fact that we ourselves, you yourselves, the european leadership itself very often express the idea of an introverted, frightened, often paralysed europe, a europe that prefers to deny problems rather than govern them by assuming responsibility, risks and consequences. however, i wonder how, without risk, leadership and responsibility, it is possible to have euro-passionate european citizens when, in the vast majority of cases, we are not euro-passionate either. finally, i have an important political request. you have of course pointed out the need for an agenda for prosperity, stability, solidarity, for a europe which promotes peace and stability. i think that certainly nobody wants an agenda for poverty, for war, for instability, and so on. in fact, the problem is the way. we radicals are convinced that prosperity, peace and stability are also meaningless and cannot be achieved without a rigorous, clear and coherent agenda for the promotion and support of the rule of law, democracy, freedom, civil and political rights, not only for the 400 million citizens of europe, but also for the citizens of the world, starting with the world around us. it is up to you and us to express this profound conviction that there can be no development without freedom, no peace without freedom and no stability without the rule of law. this is the european identity. we are not a religious project, nor a geographical project, but a political project of the rule of law. i think that's what we need to do, with strength and leadership.
madam president, the reasons why we are voting against barroso's nomination are very simple. we are in a somewhat paradoxical situation. we are coming from elections in which virtually all governments have been defeated, not because the people did not understand or were not informed, but because there has been a mass criticism of choices such as those of the war which europe has partly made and partly not fought. we are facing a criticism of liberal policies, a profound social malaise and a social, economic and environmental crisis, which are due precisely to the failure of these liberal policies, starting with the stability pact and privatisations. a certain way of constructing europe is in crisis and rhetorical emphasis is not needed to resolve this crisis. in the face of this, a right-wing, conservative choice is made and attempts are made to propose a logic of compromise in the name of so-called governance, which is a compromise between bureaucracy and governments without addressing the problems. we think, on the contrary, that a change is needed for a europe which draws its strength from movements calling for the rejection of war, social policies, democracy and citizenship of residence. frankly, all of which candidate barroso does not represent.
president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i represent men and women on our continent who want a free political europe, independent of the geopolitical and geoeconomic interests of the united states today and of anyone else tomorrow. we want to protect our markets and our agricultural, industrial and service industries, which are threatened both by imports from outside europe and by relocation, the result of financial and economic globalisation, which has so far been opposed by few for reasons of sovereignty and identity, first of the nations and then of europe itself. we want to see the development of demographic and family policies, which are part of a wider social protection framework. we hope that the policies of precariousness of work and thus of the existence of individuals will be brought to an end. in order to have a strong, credible and independent commission which, as you have said, interprets the needs and expectations of a europe which must be social and cultural, it is necessary to work in the direction of the above mentioned and thus aim at economic policies which revise the stability pact. this is not reflected in what you have announced, in your actions and intentions. we shall vote against your presidency because the policies you pursue and represent have already proved to be atlanticist and hyper-liberal. on several occasions you have publicly supported us policy and have spoken in favour of a further transfer of powers from the states to the union, a union which claims to centralise and manage the future of the peoples of europe without respect for traditions and identity. it is also in favour of enlargement to include countries such as turkey, which have nothing to do with our culture and history. we shall therefore vote against this presidency, which represents policies which are in the interests of the banks, of global finance and of states whose interests and policies are in conflict with those of the nations of europe.
i would like to ask you two questions, mr president-in-office, to which i would like to have an answer, or at least a less vague answer. the first is information. as you know, the constitutional treaty, which will be signed in rome on 29 october, clearly states the value of pluralism in information. on 22 april, the european parliament adopted an important resolution on the risks of infringement of freedom of expression and information in the european union. paragraph 77 of this resolution calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a directive to safeguard pluralism and media pluralism in europe and, paragraph 78 calls on the commission to submit proposals to ensure that members of national governments cannot use their own holdings in broadcasting companies for political purposes. i should be very grateful if you would first state in your reply whether you agree with the contents of this resolution and, if so, within what time limit you intend to take the measures requested by this parliament. the second question concerns iraq, a country i have known well since 1991, since the gulf war. i would like to point out that the division of europe on the iraq question has been a serious weakness for the supporters of multilateralism and peace, two words which you used in your speech yesterday. i believe that all the european institutions must return to work with great commitment and determination so that this weakness can be overcome as soon as possible. since this point has not been dealt with with the necessary clarity in your report, i ask you to clarify what concrete initiatives you intend to take to achieve a common european approach to peace and to ensure that europe plays a prominent role and is actively involved in the process of civil and democratic reconstruction in iraq. i've been back from iraq for two weeks and i can tell you that the message from the iraqis is one: we want more europe and we do not want to be left alone in the face of the americans.
mr president, i would like to put a point of order. the european parliament also has a committee on women's rights and gender equality. a well-known italian newspaper and the british press today reported a statement by mr godfrey bloom that we women can cook but cannot clean behind refrigerators. i would point out that there are women who are fighting and being killed for their rights, women who are covered by burkas and women who, in the european union, still suffer from economic inequalities. i know the british have a sense of self-irony, but i am neapolitan and i can say that we women know how to cook and clean refrigerators and we also do politics, whereas perhaps godfrey bloom knows neither how to clean refrigerators nor how to do politics. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we all know that mr barroso has been familiar with the institutions and their rules for a long time. we also know that he is not arrogant. so, obviously, there has to be a certain amount of trust. it certainly can't be a lack of courtesy, it must be a misunderstanding. i think that trust could still be given to him. it seems to me impossible that we cannot find out within three minutes where he is to clear up the misunderstanding. that's all i'm saying.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the points with which you opened the sitting. the italian delegation of the union for a europe of nations group proposes that the members of this parliament exceptionally pay the daily allowance for a donation to the international red cross, symbolically intended for the reconstruction of the beslan school. i also believe that it is incumbent on this parliament, in its plenary session, in addition to the strong condemnation of all terrorist acts and the words you have spoken at the beginning of the sitting, to send a message of solidarity and closeness to the families of the civilian hostages kidnapped in iraq, in particular the two french journalists and the two italian girls simona pari and simona torretta, in the hope that all the kidnapped people can return home safely.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and the day before yesterday, in just two nights, about a thousand people illegally landed on the island of lampedusa. mr president, also in view of the hygiene and sanitary conditions and the humanitarian conditions of these journeys, i would ask you whether it would not be appropriate for a delegation from the european parliament - perhaps including your distinguished presence - to go to lampedusa to assess this situation, which is now a shocking emergency from a humanitarian point of view. italy is taking action and achieving some initial results, but it is necessary for the european union to exert strong pressure on the countries of origin and transit, because europe cannot tolerate this vile trafficking in human beings. i would ask that the european parliament be present when an international meeting of an ngo is held in lampedusa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on my departure from milan airport i have unfortunately lost my spectacles for the hundredth time, so i cannot see near but i can see well from afar and, looking from afar, i see dangers for our parliament. i am asking you to increase security for the european parliament's premises in strasbourg and brussels. i think that the european parliament would be a delightful snack for the terrorist sharks and if you summon me i can tell you what i think is not working for the security of us in the european parliament. i do not think it would be appropriate to express my concerns publicly on such an important subject.
i have to ask the question. the reason why i, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, am submitting this oral question to the commission and the council, which i hope will somehow take up my question, is because of a fundamental concern. in these years of attempts to reduce air pollution and its effects on climate change, the greenhouse effect and the consequences mentioned just a few minutes ago, the international civil aviation organization has been one of the bodies that has been building a policy to combat air pollution. this policy also provided for the use of economic instruments - so-called market instruments - and voluntary measures, as well as the possibility of trading pollution rights and introducing taxes and fiscal instruments to reduce pollution. unfortunately, it seems that the policy of the international civil aviation organization has recently taken a different approach. despite the decisions taken at the time, which basically assigned this organization a very parallel task to that of implementing the kyoto agreements, which was to provide for the elaboration of guidelines for the organization aimed at ensuring that the different countries or the different organizations such as the european union could then implement the same standards, we are faced with the possibility that at the next assembly of the organization, to be held between 28 september and 8 october in montreal, an amendment would be tabled which would eliminate the possibility of using market instruments to combat pollution produced by aircraft engines, thus taking a step backwards in the whole policy. that's bad enough as it is. as we discuss this, as the conviction of the problems we face grows stronger, as the evidence of the relationship between aircraft emissions and the consequences for air quality grows, this step back would be a particularly serious fact. in fact, despite the progress made in the work on perfecting the organisation's guidelines, which are intended to enable the various countries to adopt, intervene or build the market for the exchange of emission rights and possibly use fiscal instruments, we are faced with an amendment, sponsored by the united states but not only, which would tend not only to stop this policy of the organisation, but even to prevent the european union, for example, from taking measures in this direction. i therefore ask the commission and the council whether they are aware of this danger, whether they share this concern and, consequently, what they intend to do to prevent this step backwards. in the alternative, i ask them what measures they intend to take to maintain the european union's right to apply such measures, to build an emissions trading market or to introduce tax measures to discourage the use of highly polluting fuels within the european union or elsewhere. i would like to ask in summary what we think we can do to ensure that the international civil aviation organisation continues its policy or, in the alternative, that the european union at least has the right to pursue it to the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support the open and positive approach of your speech and the long list of priorities you have outlined. there will certainly be a lot of work for us and for you in the years ahead, but we believe that the most important challenge for this parliament is to defeat euroscepticism and to show, as mr watson has also said, that we are not superfluous. to ensure that in 2009 not 40%, but 80 or 90% of our citizens participate in the elections, there are three things we must do better than in the past, going beyond our political differences and also trying to resist the drift that is already visible in this parliament and that makes it a kind of appendage of the council, where parliamentary groups are increasingly an expression of the balance of power between different national delegations, instead of autonomous and truly european political subjects. mr president, this parliament must produce better laws, it must demonstrate by facts that democracy can be achieved at the supranational level and made visible to the citizens, it must represent the eye of the international community in matters which do not allow for hypocrisy and double standards, such as the defence of human rights and decisions on peace and war. as regards our role as co-legislators, we must not forget that the european parliament has had to fight hard for years to get its powers respected by the council and the commission. there are still at least four open issues which we ask you to put on the agenda of the trilogue with the other institutions as soon as possible. firstly, there is the ever-present temptation to circumvent the rules in order to prevent the european parliament from exercising its powers to the full. i would like to mention the pnr case - the agreement with the united states on travellers' data - and the case of the comitology procedure on gmos, but i could mention others. this is a real political problem which you, yourself, must face. secondly, there is the review of access to sensitive documents. here again the commission and the council make life difficult for us as representatives of the people. the infringement procedure is a prime example. there is a stated desire on the part of the commission to reduce its impact on this issue and we have no access to these procedures, which very often prevents justice from being done. we believe that your role as president of this institution is absolutely crucial in this respect too. thirdly, we must launch an interinstitutional agreement on trade, in part by calling for the rules to be decided in advance by the constitutional treaty. my colleagues have already spoken about the statute of members, so i do not need to go into too much detail. we certainly have to improve a lot internally. we are opposed to hasty legislation, pushed through at first reading, and agreements only between large groups on legislation, as has often happened in the latter part of our legislature, while we are in favour of a more systematic, more political and more effective use of the legislative initiative power we have and which we ourselves forget. i have spoken of this parliament as a laboratory for supranational democracy. we are convinced that we must accompany the debate on the ratification of the constitutional treaty, while avoiding the error of making propaganda and leaving those outside our door who do not think that this treaty is the best answer to the europe of tomorrow. i think we have to win them over, too, try to convince them. i would like to stress that the european parliament must also act as the eye of the international community. mr president, we are very much convinced that the re-establishment of the subcommittee on human rights can enable this parliament to return to being a place where people actually fight and achieve on human and individual rights, and not that forum of speeches and declarations which it has become in recent years. we hope that we can count on your support to ensure that the subcommittee can work in full autonomy, rebuilding that vast network of contacts and collaboration with human rights defenders around the world, giving them a voice and legitimacy and, in the long term, perhaps becoming a full-fledged commission. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i am speaking on the basis of rule 166 and rule 150 to tell you that i think we are about to do something very serious and incomprehensible. we, as members of the new parliament, are called upon to decide on our times, places and ways of working in 2005. of course, to decide all this, we would have needed a draft and the possibility of discussing it and of tabled amendments, whereas now we find ourselves having to ratify, without debate, without comparison, without mentioning strasbourg and our places of work, a timetable drawn up by the previous parliament in april, with different majorities and with different historical situations in europe, which in fact excludes the ten new member states and their members. i therefore believe that the rules of procedure have not been respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the camps for displaced persons in sudan and for refugees in chad, our parliamentary delegation met a remarkable and sorrowful humanity: civilians, women, children, men, the new damned of the earth, escaping violence and death with the fear of being attacked and having to flee again. they want to go back to their villages, which have been destroyed by the hundreds, but they want to go back to safety. that is why they are calling for a greater presence of the international community. they do not trust the sudanese government, they demand justice and that crimes do not go unpunished. we are facing a huge tragedy - one million displaced people, 200,000 refugees, 30,000 dead - in the face of which the international community has intervened with great delay, calling for a ceasefire and the opening of peace negotiations. in the camps we visited, we did not see death from hunger. emergency aid has arrived except in rebel-held areas, where aid convoys are not reaching due to rain, so there is no full control of their conditions. yet, even in areas where there has been no war, we have seen immense poverty. many sudanese or chadian citizens register as displaced or refugees in order to get food and medical care. the democratic opposition forces in darfur that we met, whether they are african or afro-arab tribes, agreed that the roots of the armed conflict started by the sla or jem forces lie in the underdevelopment and a policy of marginalization of the region, specifically of african tribes. the danger of a resumption of violence is ever present. if the causes are not removed, there is a possibility of an explosion not only in darfur. that is why i think it is essential that the european union insists that the abuja negotiations have a positive outcome. pressure must be brought to bear on the sudanese government and the sla or jem forces to respect the ceasefire and, as you said, cooperation must be given to the strengthening of the presence of the african union forces and human rights observers and to the growth of dialogue between those civil society forces defending human and social rights. i also believe that it is essential to continue and support the naivasha agreements. as we have been told by many in sudan, the only solution is political and cannot be military. that is why i believe that a strict arms embargo against sudan is necessary, not only from the european union but also from the united nations, just as strong pressure must be put on eritrea or those who sell arms to the rebels. these are difficult times because war and terrorism are destroying our lives. i believe we must act with wisdom and determination so that the people of sudan can move towards development and justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, we are responding to a crisis which erupted and exploded in march 2003. it is september 2004, and this delayed reaction is not because of a lack of knowledge. just think of the few doors we've knocked on in all these months. it reacted late because of a political calculation that turned out to be wrong, namely to concentrate everything on the naivasha trial, for which khartoum felt it had carte blanche to intervene elsewhere. i simply want to draw attention to the fact that a great tension is exploding in eastern sudan and i would not like us to react in a year's time, in a situation where the crisis has become intractable. it's a complex problem that i think we need to address together. finally, as regards security, there is the problem of a real atmosphere of impunity. i would remind the presidency and the commission that there is an instrument, namely the international criminal court, and in particular article 7 of the statute, under which the security council can request the prosecutor-general to open an inquiry. i am mentioning this because, apart from the committee on human rights, it is an instrument that europe has worked so hard to create, and which i believe can and must be put into action in this particular crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the figures and figures provided by mrs hybašková and mrs morgantini do not require any comment, but merely our full respect. i would be more cautious in seeing the shadow of al qaeda behind every conflict that unfolds on this earth. i am not interested in bush's definition of genocide and in deciding on the basis of law whether it is genocide in this case. i am much more interested, as other colleagues have said, in what we can and cannot do. what we can certainly do is to envisage direct and strict sanctions, such as an arms embargo or, as mrs bonino suggested, an appeal to the international criminal court to seek a political solution. of course, we must avoid at all costs creating the conditions for military intervention, even if justified on humanitarian grounds. mr president, we all know that the history of these years, from bosnia to iraq, is the history of the arbitrary and often counterproductive use of force to resolve crises. this is a choice to be avoided, especially since we risk turning this region into an endless war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not inclined to use the term genocide too casually. however, the situation in sudan is very serious and requires a real qualitative leap in the european union's attitude. it is not enough to provide aid, but it is necessary that the population can access it in complete safety. it is therefore useful for parliament to strengthen its condemnation of the actions of the sudanese government, which continues to arm militias with the aim of terrorizing the civilian population of darfur. the sudanese government is playing tricks to gain unilateral advantage, even taking advantage of the difficult international situation that sees supranational institutions and all public opinion engaged in the fight against global terrorism. this is why a new resolution from parliament is needed, including a call for a total arms embargo and for selective sanctions that can put pressure on the government and the military without causing harm to the civilian population. the sudanese government must now be the subject of the world's attention every day.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tragic events are some of the latest unmistakable signs that are confronting the civilized world with an obvious reality: the terrorism of recent years is not an isolated incident linked together by violence and brutality, but we are facing a war, albeit unconventional. this is a new war, because never before have the forces of evil been mobilized on all sides and never before has the civilized world, in every corner of the globe, been confronted with such widespread atrocity and such total disregard for the values and principles of civilization. never before have children been hit with such ferocity and determination, outside of conventional conflict. it is time to get out of the stupor that we have felt as a civilized world, because to each of us, educated in respect for human dignity and civil rights, it is incomprehensible how there are men and women capable of the acts of ferocious cruelty that we have witnessed. we have been declared a global war by unconventional methods and we cannot forget that there have been many announcements, from the attacks in dar es salaam and nairobi to the escalation of the taliban regime. one of the last warnings to this parliament and the international community was issued by commander massoud, who was killed on 9 september 2001, a few months after his visit to strasbourg and two days before the attack on the twin towers, which marked the official declaration of a war on terrorism throughout the civilised world. we need to understand the reality we live in. we no longer have ambassadors announcing a state of war, but we have bombs tearing our territories apart, murderers and child rapists and the recruitment of new terrorists in our own cities. europe has a duty to listen to all voices that are speaking out in defence of the freedom of oppressed peoples, but it must also say clearly that terrorism must be fought and condemned without question and that all those who, in a more or less surreptitious way, justify, tolerate or support terrorism must be isolated and put in a position to do no harm. at a time when we are fighting with solidarity and difficulty against this new terrorism which has declared war on us, it is difficult to understand how neighbouring countries which we respect and love, such as france, can let a terrorist escape who has been convicted in italy of four murders committed during the tragic years of lead. our national and european legislation must also be adapted to the emergency we are experiencing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss the prospects for iraq, we are looking at the images coming from that country. they are images of war, of a war that seems endless, of a conflict that leaves no room for easy optimism. at the same time, we feel anxiety for the hostages, for this odious form of violence and blackmail. the international community must come together to save these people, journalists and volunteers, as well as citizens of iraq and other countries. from here, a call must come to the arab and islamic world to isolate terrorism and reduce the consensus around these forms of violence. at the same time, i believe that an appeal should be made to the iraqi provisional government and the forces of the international coalition to ensure that the efforts to free the hostages are not hindered, and that military operations and bombing, which are causing so many civilian casualties in iraqi cities and which are certainly not helping to create a favourable climate for negotiations to save the lives of the prisoners, are suspended. the council and the commission have been looking beyond this tragic hostage crisis to the reality and prospects of iraq. it is clear that the way out of this dramatic crisis is a political change in iraq and, more generally, in the fight against terrorism, as was also shown by this morning's debate. the war and military occupation of iraq has proved to be a tragic mistake. instead of curbing terror, they have made it stronger and more dangerous, they have spread hatred towards the west throughout the islamic world and risk plunging the world into a clash of civilizations which is the most favourable ground for fundamentalism. from iraq to chechnya to palestine, the logic of war, brutal repression and the denial of human and peoples' rights has helped terrorism. now we have to change course. this does not mean abandoning the use of force, but re-establishing the primacy of politics and international law. we do not blame the american conservatives for fighting terrorism. on the contrary, we blame them for having fought this fight in the wrong way, increasing the insecurity of the world. we must return to multilateralism, we must recognize that the pacification of iraq is likely to require very clear and courageous choices. for example, it is difficult to believe that the presence of american armed forces in that country can contribute to peace, since it is clear that, by its presence, those who wanted and waged war attract terrorism instead of creating peace. it is necessary to consider that these forces should be withdrawn at the same time as the elections and replaced, under the auspices of the un, by forces from countries not involved in the conflict. we must return to politics, multilateralism and international law in all areas. that is the feeling of europe, that is the feeling of this parliament. we need strong institutions that can translate this feeling into coherent political action and not just into a call. finally, i would like to thank commissioner patten for his work and also for his words this morning which translated, if only in a good speech, the prevailing sentiment of the europeans. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear that the first objective of all of us is to do everything possible to save all the hostages - french, italian and iraqi - because all lives are of equal value. but to achieve this, generic words and statements are not enough. who in europe does not want the hostages freed? however, i wonder how one can legitimately demand respect for human rights and the rescue of hostages when the armies of the countries sitting in this hemisphere continue to bomb and kill civilians. we are responding to the call of the ngo and are calling for a halt to the bombing. terrorism and war are mirror images and feed off each other. they are the real enemy of pacifism and associationism working in iraq to build a new society. we don't know who produced these abductions, but we do know that there is a converging interest for ngos to leave iraq and not witness the violation of rights that is happening on all sides. i have not heard the council condemn the war, a pre-emptive war which has trampled on centuries of human rights. we call for the immediate withdrawal of the troops and we announce that if our amendments against the war and for the withdrawal of the troops are not accepted, we will vote against the motion for a resolution which will be tabled tomorrow and we continue to be in tune with the major movements and with public opinion which is unreservedly opposed to war and terrorism. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while acknowledging the good intentions, we regret the fundamental inadequacy of europe in the face of the tragic facts of the international crisis, the terrorist emergency and the situation in iraq. the commissioner, if there is too much america in international relations, it is because europe is in fact impotent. as europeans we would like to have that constitution which we have been delaying in adopting, because we would like to have a european foreign minister who could be in iraq right now and play his part with real authority, including in negotiating the return of french and italian hostages. i would like to mention two italian girls, simona pari and simona torretta. this terrorism, which does not value human life, which kills and rapes innocent children, which kidnaps peace-keeping forces and civilians and which blackmails european governments and peoples, must be condemned in the strongest terms and unconditionally. the terrorists' destabilizing activities are probably also aimed at delaying or preventing the elections in iraq in any way, which would be unacceptable. in conclusion, to all those in iraq, to the soldiers on peacekeeping missions, to the ngos who have chosen with admirable tenacity to remain and carry out their work of aid to the civilian population, to the families of the victims and, if i may say so, at this moment especially to the families of the hostages, i believe that the voice of solidarity and closeness must be heard loudly from all the strasbourg assembly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tragic events concerning the hostages - all the italian, french and iraqi hostages - whose unconditional release we are once again calling for here, underline the extreme gravity of the situation in iraq. the allied military commanders themselves now clearly admit that a part of iraqi territory is out of their control. the military solution is therefore proving to be totally inadequate to solve the problem of terrorism and to ensure iraq's transition to democracy. the foundations of a new democratic order cannot be laid by a provisional government, which is called ad interim, and which is in fact a puppet government of the united states and is therefore not recognized by the local population. there is only one way to stabilize the situation in iraq, and that is the immediate withdrawal of troops. it is not a question of whether or not to give in to the blackmail of terrorist groups, but of sending concrete signals of that change in strategy which sees the withdrawal of the occupying troops as the precondition for the sending of a un contingent, composed of forces from countries not at war. the bush doctrine of preventive war has been tragically misguided and has proved incapable of countering the phenomenon of terrorism, which has even further spread in the areas of conflict. a worldview based on the exclusive political and economic supremacy of one country is not sustainable. europe can and must make an independent and united foreign policy proposal, and it can and must play an increasingly important role in resolving crises such as the one in iraq. we must give diplomacy and politics a chance again. we need the presence of international organizations that can guarantee free elections, elections free from political, economic conditioning coming from the occupying forces. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to hypocrisy. in iraq we are seeing the perpetuation of us geopolitical interests. the post-war history of the second world war is marked by unilateral and pre-emptive interventions by the great powers. the aggressiveness of the yalta victors has never been opposed by a subjugated europe. the un has been equally ineffective, its resolutions, which are unpopular with the major powers, have been systematically ignored or evaded. the president-in-office of the council, mr ghazi al yawar, has cancelled his visit to the european parliament. it is appropriate to ask who wanted or elected this president. to pass him off as a representative of the iraqi people is an insult to our intelligence and the intelligence of the people we represent. we must get out of the conflict in iraq, remove all excuses for an occupation which, far from guaranteeing security, peace and justice to the iraqi people, is producing grief and shame, is costing public finances enormously, is damaging interests and amplifying resentments, and is endangering the security, peace and prosperity of the peoples of europe. mr bot, these should be the objectives of the council, the commission, the governments and the institutions of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have serious doubts that the action of the european parliament will have any effect on the situation in iraq. in any case, what is happening is proof of the european union's split and the lack of a foreign policy, with 12 countries present, 12 absent and one withdrawing. it should also be noted that there is no common european feeling. in fact, whenever there are murders or kidnappings, nobody asks whether european citizens were involved, but italians ask whether there are italians, spaniards whether there are spaniards, greeks whether there are greeks, french whether there are french, and so on. this is a very important point for those who want europe to play a role at all costs, but this division does not allow it to do so. finally, as regards the institutional situation, i believe that the principle of self-determination of peoples must be fully applied to minorities in iraq. neither a foreign power nor representatives of the old or new regime can decide on the autonomy or independence of the kurds and other peoples in iraq.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in europe have had very different views on the war in iraq, but the disaster in iraq that is before our eyes has unfortunately confirmed the validity of the fears that many of us had expressed. it is urgent to try to stop the chaos and violence, even though it is difficult to talk about peace and democracy when every day is marked by kidnappings, murders, guerrilla attacks, terrorist ambushes and aerial bombardments. europe is called upon to act and parliament itself must play a more active role in providing information and guidance on such a crucial foreign policy issue. i therefore believe that the presidency of the european council must commit itself to reaching an international conference on iraq as soon as possible for a multilateral management of the crisis, involving the united nations, the major world powers and all the states concerned in the region, namely iran, saudi arabia, turkey and syria. to give strength to this path of peace, europe must act strongly and unitedly, along a clear line of dialogue with the islamic world and firmly against terrorism and all forms of violence. i thank commissioner chris patten for his very clear and very effective intervention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated what commissioner patten said, but i note with great disappointment and concern that the text of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in iraq which has been presented to us represents a serious step backwards from the condemnation of the pre-emptive war by the united states which was expressed by the european parliament at the beginning of 2003. today, faced with the political and military disaster of the occupation, it is not even possible to demand and foresee the withdrawal of the occupying foreign troops and the need to identify the responsibilities for the current situation is avoided. i see no political realism. the evidence is that there is a mass popular uprising against the occupiers and against a government that does not represent the country. the terrorist presence cannot obscure this fact. on the contrary, as mr d'alema has also said, it is the presence of foreign troops that attracts and causes terrorism. if europe does not take a stand, it runs the serious risk of being confronted within a few months with a disaster of even greater proportions and of being partly responsible for it. under these conditions, the elections scheduled for january 2005, if they take place, will be neither free nor fair. to condemn terrorism without saying who and what created it is to bury your head in the sand. i think we should send a different signal to the public opinion in the arab and muslim world and also to the public opinion in europe, which is overwhelmingly hostile to the war, first of all by calling for an immediate halt to the bombing. otherwise we shall all lose a great opportunity to contribute to justice and peace and to have a positive influence on the international situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate i heard some very well-conceived and well-developed geopolitical statements, some of which i agree with. however, the most obvious finding is that, despite a declared common european sentiment, europe, and in particular the council, will do nothing for the four european citizens in this moment of being held hostage by the terrorists. europe, and the council in particular, will do nothing to ensure that these four european citizens are no longer considered only italians or only french, no longer just journalists, with a task assigned to those who feel the duty of witnessing to the truth, no longer just international cooperators, with a task assigned to those who feel the duty of building the common good, and are rightly claimed as children of europe. this is a bitter observation, but it is not to be resigned to, and i continue to insist on the immediate release of all the hostages without further testing, and on support for any attempt to achieve this. italy, with its people, its volunteers and its solidarity, even in peacekeeping operations or in crisis management, has always worked for the good of the population in the areas of italian activity. the two italian volunteers, like so many others, are there to help, to protect the weak and to do good. that's why we want them released, along with all the other hostages. we also demand the return of enzo baldoni's body and, in this regard, we ask for human compassion for his family. we cannot allow the ideal embodied by these two young women to be undermined at this time, namely the real possibility of building the common good and fraternity within iraqi reason. these two women and those two journalists really represent europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, the proposal for reform of the stability and growth pact is one of the most significant of the prodi commission's recent initiatives at a time of uncertainty in the union's economy. the choices made in recent years have ensured stability and kept inflation under control, but growth has remained low and there are no binding rules for implementing the lisbon objectives. europe's growth must be high quality and return to rates of at least 3%. the reform of the covenant can be one of the means by which we can break out of this lethargy. the commission proposal, presented here by commissioner almunia, is a good starting point but needs to be improved. the member states must make this debate a real choral debate like the one that accompanied maastricht. the debate must be structured around three key points. firstly, the future pact must be 'lisbonised' by giving more weight to all the criteria relating to structural reforms, innovation and investment in research and development. the proposals relating to the golden rule must be recovered, but on the condition that the investments covered by the 3% ceiling are established and managed at community level and do not end up in a mere market between the interests of the different countries, as mr klinz has just said. secondly, as regards debt, the trend and not the stock should be the decisive criterion. thirdly, there is a need for clarification on the credibility of the pact, which was seriously undermined by the ecofin decision in november and the final text of the constitution on the balance of power between ecofin and the commission, which favours national governments more than the text of the convention. in conclusion, i would remind you that if the political knot on the credibility of the pact and the commitment of the countries to respect it is not dissolved, the whole question of merit risks being merely academic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner almunia, every day in our debates we say that in order to be competitive in the world economy, europe needs more economic growth, more material infrastructure and more material infrastructure and more reforms. every day we say we must implement the lisbon agenda, but the results are in plain sight. the current stability and growth pact, as it is structured, is not able to respond to growth, the infrastructure gap or the demand for reforms. it is just a poor substitute for a common economic and growth policy which does not exist. it was wanted by the strong countries because they didn't trust the weak countries, but in the end the strong countries were the first to break it. so there is something wrong and we have to honestly acknowledge it. as is well known, the three strategic objectives of growth, infrastructure and reform can be summed up for policy makers in a formula that economic theory calls the golden rule, which allows deficit financing for investment spending with intergenerational value and requires, at the same time, financing current expenditure without generating budget deficits. so far, european bureaucracies and governments have said no to the introduction of the golden rule for fear of opportunistic behaviour on the part of the states. these are legitimate fears, but fears do not make europe. in order to avoid national opportunism in the possible application of the golden rule, it is important that there be clear european objectives and clear european rules, as well as equally clear funding with ex-ante checks on their consistency and ex-post checks on the results obtained, leaving no room for accounting tricks or bullying, already too often tried in the recent past even by the so-called rigorous countries. why not try the golden rule? if the reform of the pact does not include the golden rule, the ecb is right in saying that it is better to leave it alone and leave the pact as it is, stupid and open to attack by the strongest, à la carte, but also useless if not harmful, since the timid interpretative corrections, variously sponsored, on the flexibility of the medium-term deficit as well as on the sustainability of the debt are of little use. commissioner almunia, i wish you well in your work and i urge you to use all the courage necessary at such a difficult time for the building of our europe. do not listen to the many concerned and disguised sirens who risk wrecking not only the credibility of the pact but, along with it, the credibility of the whole of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say to my colleagues from the people - obviously not to mr brunetta, who has quite different ideas on this subject - that the pact is not being changed to lessen its rigor. that would be a mistake. the covenant must be changed because it has contradicted itself. its mechanisms are in balance if nominal growth in the economy is around 5 percent. our european potential growth is consistently below this figure, so the pact does not hold. if you leave it like that, the debt will rise accordingly. the commission's proposals are good. they can be enriched and strengthened with regard to lisbon and with regard to the strengthening of european integration, that is to say by avoiding risks of disarticulation of policies at national level. if, for example, precise mechanisms are identified to make the pact fully and automatically cyclical, to support european investment programmes or to give predefined margins of flexibility to countries facing structural lisbon reforms, all this would not mean reducing rigor, but making rigor effective and oriented towards growth and integration. finally, it is right to look more closely at debt, not at the stock of debt but at the dynamics of debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the council has informed us that it is being forced to withdraw from our debate for imperative reasons. so here's how we're gonna do this: i shall give the floor to mr zalm, minister for the council, who will report on the impression and content of the debate, and then the debate will continue and conclude with the intervention of commissioner almunia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although this is not the subject of the debate, i take this opportunity to express my regret that the preamble to the constitution did not include a reference to the christian roots of europe. that said, i can only share the need to give the maximum popular information to the draft constitution and to define a coordinated timetable for the ratification of the constitution itself, hoping that all european citizens may have the right and the opportunity to participate in this constituent phase through popular referendums in each member state. we must not be afraid of participation and democracy, because only then will the new europe of the people, of rights and of the constitution be a truly strong and authoritative europe.
commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all members for this lively, controversial and important debate. the commission has been informed by the portuguese permanent representation in brussels that the 'women on waves' association, amongst others, appealed against the decision to refuse entry of the vessel into portugal. as i said earlier, on 6 september 2004 the administrative and fiscal court of coimbra concluded that there had been no violation of community law. this decision is the subject of a further appeal. the commission intends to seek information on the precise motives and implications of the decision of the portuguese government. member states enjoy discretionary powers to determine the scope of the concepts of public policy, public security and public health on the basis of their legislation and national case law. however, measures restricting freedom of movement adopted on those grounds must comply with the provisions of directive 64/221/eec, which limits member states' discretionary powers. as i have already stated, the commission believes that any member state adopting a decision restricting the free movement of persons must respect fundamental rights, including freedom of expression, as general principles of community law. (applause)
i thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i thank mr doyle for explaining the question and for making a contribution on behalf of the group, although this was a little time-consuming.
commission. mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for the debate and mr davies, in particular, for his kind words in favour of the conservation of the rare species of swedish commissioners! i will comment briefly on some of the questions raised. firstly, on the issue of enforcement and information exchange, last week member states agreed to step up activities in this area. i should like to tell mr sjöstedt that we are totally against secret ballots and i can confirm that we will vote against that. mrs auken mentioned sea turtles. the convention accords the strictest protection to sea turtles and we support the proposed protection for fresh–water turtles as well. the location was decided at the last conference and it will not be changed now. on the great white shark, madagascar and australia have informed us that, in the light of widespread legal and scientific objections, they have amended their proposal, removing the demand for the zero quota. we can now give this proposal our unqualified support. finally, we welcome parliament's initiative in bringing forward this resolution. we are pleased that so many of the views expressed on issues such as bushmeat, napoleon fish, minke whale and ramin, are in accordance with the community consensus. ideally, we would have preferred to see a resolution that balances the need for greater protection of some species with the sometimes conflicting considerations of promoting sustainable use and, above all, respecting the scientific integrity of the convention. this would be in the best interests of cites and of nature conservation in general. nevertheless, i am pleased that parliament has prepared a resolution in such a short time and i thank you for the debate.
i thank the commissioner and, on behalf of all my colleagues, i think i can express a universal appreciation for the species of swedish european commissioners, which we do not think needs any special protection because it does not appear to be an endangered species. at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
mr president, i was referring to the request for the repatriation of the remains of the italian journalist enzo baldoni, which is included in the motion for a resolution. i understand from what you have said that there is no need to table an oral amendment. however, since three more people were kidnapped this morning, i think it is appropriate to update the text to today's events. before we proceed to the vote on paragraph two, i will therefore ask for the floor to table an oral amendment to that effect.
mr president, all the points raised by mr salafranca are correct. however, another is added: paragraph 3 has been deposited in an earlier version, whereas it should be replaced by the following wording: 'calls on the presidency of the council, the high representative and the commission to support the initiatives being taken by the member states concerned in this regard.' it is therefore necessary to revise paragraph 3 as well. ladies and gentlemen, i know this is painful, but i can assure you that we had the correct version of the text. i know that mr tajani will ask for an oral amendment and i can already anticipate that we agree.
mr president, as you know, three people were kidnapped in their homes in baghdad this morning, two of them american and one a british european citizen. i propose to the house an oral amendment to paragraph 2 to add, after the reference to the italian humanitarian workers simona torretta and simona pari, the words 'and of the british citizen' - followed by the first and last name - so that the european parliament will make a timely appeal for the release of this other citizen of our union and guarantee him the support of all the political forces represented in it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, last night i fell asleep thinking about the declaration on the vote on iraq and found myself in the midst of the damned of hell, among whom i recognized bin laden, with his beard burning continuously, as in dante's inferno. in the dream i asked him: "but why were you so angry with us europeans and americans?" and bin laden, as his beard continued to burn, said to me, "i was very sick and applied for disability pension from the saudi pension system, but i was not granted it. that's why i was so angry with the whole world". but let's give this disability pension to this bin laden, so he'll at least leave us all in peace and quiet!
mr president, the northern league delegation's vote of abstention on the motion for a resolution on iraq is obviously not separate from the desire to express, as we have already done in all the chambers, our full solidarity with the two young peace workers and humanitarian volunteers who are so painfully involved in the tragedy in iraq. however, we intend to distance ourselves from underestimating the risks that the free world runs in taking for granted the false and hypocritical humanitarian claims of support for false moderate islam. it is painful to see europe and the west taking the word of those who arm the hands of terrorists, who finance terrorist networks and who today say they are in favour of the release of hostages. europe and the west must maintain a clear and firm line of condemnation and refusal to cooperate with those who are operating terrorist networks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in burma, a country which is living under an oppressive, violent and very bloody regime, is well known. however, while the incidents of the imprisonment of aung san suu kyi and the inability of the lnd, the party that won the elections, to take political action are well known, other very serious facts are less well known, such as the recruitment of child soldiers, the introduction of forced labour for a large part of the population and, which is particularly sensitive to women in this parliament but i believe also to all civilians, the abuses being perpetrated on women from ethnic minorities. there is a body of documentation at the united nations which i believe should also be examined by this parliament. in this context, we believe that the request of the asean countries, which have already associated burma with their forum, to invite it to the next asem summit, which sees the european union engaged in a dialogue of cooperation and political exchange with the asian countries, should be accepted. i believe that the foreign ministers have already, in an informal meeting, unexpectedly - if i may be so bold - given their assent to this participation. i believe that the european council must act differently to restore a situation in which it cannot see the european citizens sitting side by side with their heads of state and government and the representatives of a country so bloodthirsty, with such a violent and repressive regime. we therefore call on the european council to adopt a different position, one which, through the asean countries, can convince burma to make a change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is incredible to discuss the maldives when we all think of the name as a holiday and a paradise. in fact, there is a systematic violation of human rights on these islands. we are facing a situation in which women and children are deprived of their fundamental freedoms and, above all, a process of mass and arbitrary detention of many citizens is under way. i believe that the european union should promote a widespread initiative to support a campaign to raise awareness among european citizens in our territory so that they do not go on holiday to the maldives before the dramatic situation of human rights and the systematic violation of democracy in that territory has been clarified. i believe that a strong resolution is needed to ensure that the maldives are indeed a paradise, but a paradise where democracy and respect for human rights prevail.
mr president, i think it is right that this parliament should be able to express formally its shock and indignation at the many victims of the terrorist attack in taba last week. i think it is appropriate to express our closeness and deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, among whom i would like to mention in particular the two young italian girls, jessica and sabrina, whose only fault was that after a year of work they had taken a much-needed holiday.
mr president, i would like to inform parliament of a very serious fact. on thursday, october 7, the fbi, on federal orders, asked rack space, a us provider, to hand over the hardware of two servers that hosted all the material of indymedia, that is, the material contained in dozens of nodes of this international network that works with groups and non-profit associations. all the material was delivered without indymedia knowing the reasons for this intervention, which is a real censorship intervention. i believe that the european parliament must always defend the space of freedom of expression and debate for everyone. i therefore call for the situation of indymedia to be unblocked and for the reasons for this to be at least investigated.
mr president, mr prodi, in these five years your relations with the green group/european free alliance have had good times and bad times, as is normal, but let me say that in the light of the hearings of these weeks i am sure - or should i say, i am afraid - that many of us will regret your commission, particularly some of its members, and this is certainly not good news for europe or for us. we acknowledge that in the course of the reform of the european union and the work of the convention you and your commission have been able to maintain a clear line in favour of strengthening and democratizing the european union, despite attacks not only on you personally but also on the very existence of an autonomous and truly european institution such as yours. i must say - and i agree with mr schultz on this - that his position on iraq was also clear and we shared it. unfortunately, it has not helped to prevent war because the european union as a whole still refuses to speak with one voice and to organise itself to speak with one voice on the issues of war and peace. we also acknowledge that your commission has been able to resist the pressure of those governments - which i can only call stingy and shortsighted - who think they can keep europe going by keeping its budget below 1%. we really hope that his successor can hold on to this. as has already been said, your commission is the commission of enlargement, and in this connection we too recognize the enormous work that has been done in preparing the next enlargements, the future enlargements, and particularly with regard to turkey. but i do not hide from you, mr president, our disappointment at the failure to resolve the cyprus problem, on which we have long called for a more firm initiative from the commission, which unfortunately did not come. we certainly appreciated the leadership of you and most of your commission - not all of them, alas, and i am referring in particular to commissioner de palacio - on the issue of the kyoto protocol and climate change in general. of course, we would very much like the commission to propose a stability pact on climate change, a real plan, with clear figures and sanctions. it has not been, but we hope to be able to impose it in the future. as regards the stability pact, as you know and as you remember, we were very much in favour of your calling it stupid. but there was no immediate action. we agree with the proposal that your commission has made in this respect and we are quite pleased with it, but it has come too late after a serious crisis within the european union. on three issues, however, we found ourselves on opposite sides. we regret that and hope that we can convince not only you but also those who will come after you. the first point of strong opposition to our group was certainly the question of genetically modified organisms: it was a mistake to lift the moratorium and i think the citizens are aware of that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, mr president, the case of the pnr. we felt that it was very wrong for the commission to concentrate on a procedure which clearly and unequivocally excluded parliament from participating in a matter which is so closely connected with the rights of citizens. we hope that we will no longer have to deal with a commission which believes that parliament should not intervene on such matters.
mr president, at the beginning of your mandate we voted in favour of the directive in the hope that some crucial points would be resolved. unfortunately, there are still many to be dissolved. the commission has not succeeded, together with the council, in making the changeover to the euro less burdensome for citizens, and until the other day the criteria for the generalized system of preferences had not yet been defined, which leaves open for years the question of proper development and cooperation between europe and the poorer countries. the same food safety agency that we spoke about at the beginning of its mandate has remained partly on paper, partly because of the council, that is to say, it is not operational as we had promised. in addition, measures to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking have been dealt with in a marginal way. the fight against terrorism has not been a real priority, despite the signs that even before 9/11 made clear the need for stronger political and organizational action. we have been ignored, for example, whenever we have stressed the need for regulation of the information system, at least for the countries of the union, with the consequence that international terrorism has now also become mass media terrorism. it has learned to use new technologies against us, which should be used not only for economic purposes but also to spread the principles of freedom, democracy and human rights. there are rules for the press, for television press, for printed matter, but not for the internet, and this is an open problem. this is just to mention some of the gaps that have remained open in recent years. they were certainly years of great and positive news: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but unfortunately we have not been able to give europe the turn that the citizens have been demanding, namely more subsidiarity, less bureaucracy and more politics. it is also a matter of regret, mr president, that as italians she has recently given up her role as the leader of the parties, thus lending her support to the criticisms of many. as the minutes of this house show, we have tried on several occasions to be the commission's advisers and defenders in the face of the criticism it received at the beginning of its mandate. but now we have the weapons at our disposal because of the dual role you have played, that of president of the commission in brussels and leader of the centre-left in italy.
mr president, you know that over the years we have developed a continuous and even radical criticism of the way in which our europe has been built. i say "our" because we are europeanists, like you. i would therefore like to ask you a question which we should all consider together, rather than repeat our criticisms, even if they are harsh, of the work of your commission, criticisms which you are already aware of. how does the construction of europe compare with liberal globalisation? can we be fooled into believing that a gradual process subordinate to this globalisation is good, without seeing that it is devouring the rights acquired in the social states of the twentieth century and is building new global dynamics of injustice and democratic expropriation? we have even the return of war, the spiral of terrorism, or the pitting of workers against each other, as is being attempted these days in the automobile industry. where is europe in this picture? and is not its own constitution a step backwards from a constitution like the italian one, founded on work and the rejection of war, and almost an accompaniment to the dictates of liberal globalization? that is why europe can only be the hope for a different future for us if it can be, unlike what it has been so far, a real alternative.
mr president, mr president of the commission, as is fitting in an age of budgets, in addition to being pleased with the progress made, it is also worth highlighting the objectives which have not been achieved or have not exactly been achieved, but in any case in a constructive role for the future. first of all: the introduction of the euro was an important milestone. however, the commission could have done more to support member states in combating the resulting price increases and to help businesses coping with a too strong euro. secondly: the problems of enlargement are far from being solved. the new countries complain that they are still classed as b countries, while the old ones will have to cope with less available funding and a labour force in the enlargement countries that is much cheaper than their own. finally, the still unfinished reform of the stability pact, which has been considered urgent since 2001, especially after the post-9/11 crisis, should be deplored. i would like to remind you, as other members have done, that in this house, and more correctly in the strasbourg chamber, it was president prodi who rightly called the pact stupid. we expect the future commission to give concrete and rapid answers to these problems as well, shortening the time taken by the european bureaucracy as much as possible. in conclusion, mr president prodi, we sincerely regret, perhaps because in 1999 we also gave our confidence, that we saw it, sometimes too much, as a protagonist in italian national politics. i think that this is a negative assessment.
mr president, mr prodi, after five difficult years in which the winds often blew in the opposite direction and the sea was stormy, the budget of the prodi commission is marked by great progress and undeniable results. i would like to begin with the historic turning point in the reunification of europe, or of a large part of it, after the years of the cold war. a great success of democracy and stability. i believe that the prodi commission's budget has its most significant political element in the conception of the commission's role, beyond the individual achievements, which would be too easy to enumerate: the european parliament is not a bureaucratic body, but a political body, which has given impetus and momentum to the whole european process. and in the dialogue and cooperation between the commission and parliament, the political core, the engine of the union, which, in a europeanist and federalist vision, which i share, is the only one that can make europe a truly great supranational political reality, has been strengthened. this has sometimes been a source of annoyance to some national governments, but it has undoubtedly represented a great advance for the union, which has found its first sanction in the new principles of the constitutional treaty. europe certainly still faces difficult challenges in building peace, security, in fighting terrorism effectively, not with war, in giving our societies and economies a new impetus along the lines of lisbon. but these are challenges which can only be overcome with stronger institutions, as you said, with a more united europe, and this is the direction in which the prodi commission has worked patiently and tenaciously. i would therefore like you and all the commissioners to receive the grateful acknowledgement of parliament, as is now the case. in particular, as far as i am concerned, since it was my honour five years ago, together with chancellor schroeder, to propose your name as president of the commission at the berlin european council, and since i was also the one who nominated mario monti, i would like to say to you, romano, and to mario monti, that there is an italy which feels honoured by the way in which you have been able to represent in your european work the best europeanist and democratic tradition of our country.
mr president, mr prodi, the last five years have been marked by changes and sometimes dramatic events: the wars in afghanistan and iraq, 9/11 and international terrorism, which has reached the heart of europe with the madrid massacre. in the face of these challenges, the national states have not always responded with one voice. but the commission under your leadership has kept the helm steady in the direction of an ever larger and ever more united europe. no one can deny that you have achieved historic goals, destined to change the idea of europe and its role on the international scene forever. the commission's action has given it new impetus, credibility and authority. the unification of europe achieved with the accession of ten new countries, the most important enlargement in history, has healed the wound of fifty years of division and constituted the political response to the end of the cold war. the introduction of the euro and its assertion on international markets have increased europe's economic weight in the world and are now fundamental elements for the strengthening of our continent in an age of economic interdependence and globalisation. the neighbourhood policy has helped to stabilise the balkans and europe's borders. finally, the treaty establishing a european constitution is a historic step and for us a new starting point towards the goal of political integration. these objectives would not have been achieved without his leadership, moral integrity and dedication to the cause of the european union. our group therefore thanks you for the vision and courage you have shown over these five years, laying the foundations for a europe that is more united within itself and a leading player in the world. if i had to sum it up in two words, i would have no doubt: mission accomplished.
mr president, mr prodi, ladies and gentlemen, there is a consistent thread in your work and in the work of your commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have always pursued this ambitious objective with you in bringing italy into the euro. thanks to you, mr prodi, we can now say that political europe is closer, but for that very reason i do not think it is useful to repeat the objectives achieved in the political and institutional fields. it is useful, however, to point out what is still lacking in order to have peace as an objective and a means of resolving the political disputes in the world and to achieve as soon as possible a genuine multipolarism in order to put an end to the clash of civilizations, the result of preventive war and terrorism. a europe of social and individual rights, work for all, a modern and efficient welfare state, a multiracial and multicultural society, where the rights of each are the wealth of all. thank you, president prodi, for what you've done. we have been and will continue to be critical on many issues, we have had and will have different views, but we are and will be united for the europe of peace and progress that we want to build. given recent events, we're sure to regret it.
mr president, mr president of the commission, in recent years europe has made great strides and achieved some important goals: the reunification with the eastern countries, the birth of the euro, the signing of the first constitution; the results achieved through the efforts of all the union institutions: the commission, council and parliament. it must be said with equal frankness that other objectives falling within the commission's remit have been disregarded. firstly, the lisbon exercises have been trivialized, the spring reports have often disappointed us; secondly, there was a lack of policy-making and planning in industrial policy. thirdly, as regards legislative activity, annual programmes have never exceeded 50%; fourthly, as regards the reform of the commission, there have been too many parachuting decisions from the top in the appointments. in short, in these five years many shadows have cast a shadow over the good work done by so many commissioners, starting with mrs loyola de palacio. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. parliament gave its almost unanimous consent. we too, her political opponents in italy, had given her our confidence in the name of the higher interests of the european union and of our country. we wanted to show that national polemics are one thing, but the leadership of the european institutions is another. we have never failed to give you our support in this house, and we have done so with a great sense of responsibility. you have instead preferred to use your prestigious position to carry out political activity in italy against the government and to take the lead of the opposition. we were deeply sorry. we would have preferred an attitude similar to that of jacques delors, who left the leadership of the clichy municipality before taking over the presidency of the commission. it was an explicit way of showing that the commission's government cannot be confused with participation in national political activity.
mr president, i draw on my experience of the past few years as head of a local authority in southern italy to highlight one of the elements of the prodi commission's indisputable value: the commission's approach to the problem of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the peripheries appreciated the working methodology based on a permanent dialogue with regions and local authorities, a methodology reiterated by the commission in its communication of december 2003 and also attested to by the call for representatives of local authorities, entitled 'a thousand debates for europe' on the subject of the constitution, launched by mrs prodi, together with mr cox, president emeritus, and the president of the committee of the regions. in recent years, with the white paper on the new system of governance, the commission has tackled the problem of the community's democratic deficit by re-launching the concept of democracy of proximity. with community policies it has helped the weakest european regions to set up institutions for development, and has introduced a culture of planning, evaluation and integration of interventions.
mr president, some have argued that the war in iraq would help to bring about a speedy solution to the middle east conflict. a cynical prediction, instrumental in justifying a wrong and illegal war. prediction refuted by the terrible picture before our eyes: the palestinian people are in despair, terrorism and fundamentalism are on the rise, the palestinian authority is in crisis, israeli society is in fear, and this gives prime minister sharon the opportunity to unleash indiscriminate repression and proceed fearlessly with the construction of the wall. the announced withdrawal from gaza will not in any way open the way to the return of the occupied west bank. on the contrary, it could lead, through the intensification of settlements, to the final acquisition by israel of a large part of those territories, confining the palestinians to enclaves that have nothing to do with the sovereign state to which they are entitled. the road map did not provide the means to prevent the negotiating process from being overwhelmed by violence again. the international community, and the quartet in particular, should draw some conclusions from all this and reflect on this fact. as regards the possibility of resolving the conflict, the geneva negotiators, unlike at camp david, have shown that it is possible to find dignified and mutually agreed solutions on all the controversial points, even on the most delicate and thorny, such as the status of jerusalem and the right of return, up to the final status. the middle east issue should also be given top priority in relations between the european union and the united states, and we are now hoping for a change of administration. today we can also count on the positive role of certain arab countries, egypt and jordan, and on the improvement of our relations with syria and the normalisation of relations with libya. tomorrow this scenario could be very different. if yesterday europe's security depended on its development towards the east, today it depends on the south-south-east dimension. for these reasons too, the middle east conflict is not something foreign to us but is the central issue in the future of european security.
mr president, three thousand five hundred palestinians dead, more than a thousand israelis: mr solana, you speak of appeal and say you hope that israeli forces will leave gaza. i have been hearing wise words in this parliament for six years, which place responsibility on one or the other of the parties, but palestinians continue to die every day, killed by an occupying army. it's occupied. in fact, the truth is simple: there is no asymmetry, there is a symmetry. we are facing an occupied country and an international law that is being totally rejected. you have to believe sharon when she tells the son of wiston churchill that she's going to crush the palestinians of gaza and the west bank like a pastrami sandwich. dove weisglass is not lying when she clearly states that leaving gaza simply means putting the peace process into mothballs. it's not lies, it's the truth, it's the political line sharon is pursuing. of course, there can be no justification for the criminal acts that palestinian terrorists may commit against israeli citizens. but can we really only appeal? but europe really has no authority to say to israel: "enough with the israeli military occupation"? and it's not about simplicity or ingenuity. that's the truth. i'm tired of our hypocrisy, i'm tired of this way of doing things, where every day houses are destroyed, girls are killed. ayman, 13, who went to school in a backpack and was frozen is a symbol of the barbarity that a military occupation army can be, as is the barbarity, of course, of hamas sending palestinian boys to throw bombs at israeli citizens. i believe that we have the authority and the power, not just to appeal, but to say enough to the israeli military occupation. instead, let's give voice to the palestinians and israelis who are fighting for peace together: there are so many! those are the voices we need to listen to.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party, represented in this chamber by myself and by mr de michelis. the caucasus is a region which, for geopolitical and economic reasons, is at risk of being exploited. a region where different cultures and ethnic groups, christians and muslims, breathe the same air, with all the difficulties that come with it. beslan, the rose revolution in november 2003, the unrest in georgia this summer are just the tip of the iceberg. we understand russia's concern to defend its national security and borders and to fight terrorism. but this will not happen either with weapons and reprisals, or at least without a peaceful and transparent dialogue with all the parties concerned. it is therefore important that the european union act swiftly to promote the reform of the judicial, prison and tax systems in order to fight corruption and allow effective control of the territory, to strengthen the means at the disposal of the eu special representative in the caucasus, to help redefine the centre-periphery relationship, through a transfer of public goods from the centre to the most economically depressed areas and at the same time characterized by ethnic diversity, in order to avoid new centrifugal drives; to strengthen the role of civil society, in particular in the breakaway regions; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, the words which were spoken a short while ago in reference to the situation in lampedusa would have been poorly received last saturday and sunday at the international conference attended by important representatives of the african ecowas countries who confronted us in the european parliament on these very issues. i have the impression that the new african leadership has much clearer ideas on the issues in question than anyone who speaks and has a somewhat theoretical view of these problems, because they see with their own eyes the activities of criminal and mafia-like organizations, which organise and facilitate illegal immigration and even create the instruments to enable the exploitation of the methods and rules which provide for the right of asylum in order to organise illegal immigration. the african leaders warn us against such manoeuvres and activities and say that they are ready, provided they are supported by the european countries from the social and economic point of view, to activate control procedures and policies, including police, on african territory. this is what the new african leaders are saying, obviously more realistic and with a much more secular and serious view of the problem. we therefore do not agree with many aspects of this report, especially where, as supporters of the sovereignty of the individual member states, we feel that, on such a delicate subject, qualified majority voting is required and even an advance vote on this before the constitution is launched. we believe that lampedusa is a good example of the important role that the countries of origin still play. finally, i would like to ask where the european union and the commission were when it was necessary to set up a crisis office to protect the victims of terrorism. where was the european commission of prodi when european citizens were, and are, in the hands of criminal terrorists, their blackmail, their murderous methods, their threats and their barbaric actions? where was the european commission?
i hope that today's debate is only the beginning of fruitful and necessary interinstitutional and inter-committee cooperation on a matter of the utmost importance to the committee on development, which i have the honour - perhaps without much merit - of chairing and which i represent today. the gsp has been a key instrument of the european union's development policy since its inception in 1971. i would also like to emphasize the credit that goes to the european community, because it was the first to put this system into practice since 1971 and it is still today, in fact, the largest donor in terms of trade concessions to developing countries. in examining the commission's communication, we have started from the principle that the main objective of the generalized system of preferences is, and above all must continue to be, the economic and social development of these countries, and this in the spirit of international solidarity which should govern the union's external policies. it is in this context that we welcome the objectives set out in the communication, namely the simplification of the schemes, the concentration of preferences on the developing countries which need them most and, above all, the promotion of sustainable development. we are fully aware that to achieve these objectives the current system must undergo a substantial reform. but we cannot ignore the fact that any change in the present system will have considerable effects in the countries which are now benefiting from the same system. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is why the european parliament has wanted to make its voice heard from the very beginning of the reform process, that is to say, to take account of the concerns, voices and points of view of countries which are interested in this aspect. i think that this democratic requirement is all the more necessary and important at a time when, to be honest, the commission has, very regrettably, failed to undertake a proper consultation of the parties concerned before putting forward its proposals, given also that the council accepted the request to undertake a consultation with the european parliament at its last meeting. the views i express today as chairman of the committee on development are therefore preliminary and are also contained in the resolution which all the political groups have agreed to sign. i hope that today's debate will help to clarify matters and, above all, enable the european commission to incorporate some of our requests into the regulation which is expected to be adopted by the college of commissioners on 20 october. i would therefore ask the commission to answer the questions we have asked in our question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the graduation mechanism, the functioning of the gsp+ and the reform of the system of rules of origin. the report to the first, while welcoming the simplification of the grading mechanism, the fact that the commission proposes to rely solely on the market share criterion, leaving aside any indicator of development and poverty, actually leaves us almost dismayed. we cannot ignore the fact that these provisions may have very negative consequences for important exporters. without necessarily being opposed, we would therefore like to study in depth with the commission and the council the consequences and the modalities of this proposal in the months to come. as for the new gsp+ system, which we consider to be positive in that it supports sustainable development, we believe it is essential that clear, reliable and at the same time realistic criteria are defined. we would like to see a strong commitment from the commission to provide the necessary technical assistance. finally, i would like to stress that one of the obstacles to the efficient use of the system has been, as we know, the system of rules of origin. we therefore welcome a substantial reform of the system to promote regional enlargement, although we hope that good intentions will be translated into concrete initiatives: the commission has therefore submitted a proposal and also examined the systems applied by other countries. i am aware that i have not covered enough of the complexity of the subject, but that is all the time i have. i am also very much looking forward to hearing my dear colleague barón crespo, chairman of the committee on international trade, and of course my colleagues, as well as the answers - i hope detailed - that the commission and the council will give. i really hope that we can have a fruitful cooperation, that we can have positive results.
mr president, i welcome the commission's objectives of simplifying, stabilising and clarifying the regimes. the european cooperation policy, which aims to eradicate poverty in the world, cannot be limited to development programmes, however dense, extensive and profitable they may be in many cases, but must use all the instruments at its disposal to promote the growth of the least favoured countries and thus facilitate as much as possible the economy and exports of these countries. this must of course be done not only with transparency and full awareness, and therefore after careful analysis of the impact of the reductions in the proposed action plans, but also quickly so that the poor countries can benefit from the benefits as soon as possible. in addition to purely economic factors such as market shares, other criteria such as the level of development and the commitment of the beneficiaries to embark on a democratic path must also be taken into account, and trade in those products which often constitute the economic peculiarity of a given country, such as textiles for sri lanka, bananas for barbados or cocoa for the ivory coast, must be encouraged. but above all this must be done in close coordination with the wto, to avoid bypassing the authority of the countries involved and to avoid carrying out within the commission itself, as has happened in the past, a regulatory work which should instead remain the strict responsibility of the wto and the entire international community.
mr president, the fact that the recent olympic games in athens saw two gold medals being withdrawn for doping, as well as numerous disqualified athletes, shows the persistence of a bad habit that affects amateur athletes and big professionals alike. the phenomenon, which is constantly growing, is not being effectively combated with the necessary severity and this is probably also why an increasing number of athletes are approaching doping substances, in some cases even with the unconscious conviction that they are almost harmless or at least not so dangerous. the economic impact of doping is also very worrying: it is a very large business, and it is obviously also a business for large criminal organizations. we ask the commission whether the community support measures in the fight against doping, which financed 32 pilot projects in 2000-2002, can really be considered as a positive balance sheet in terms of the effectiveness of the action or whether the entire community programme should not be completely reviewed, taking into account that the 10th conference of ministers responsible for sport is meeting today in the council of europe, to promote honesty and transparency in sport and also considering the high educational values that are linked to the performance of sports activities, highlighted in 2004 which was the year of education through sport. we therefore ask the commission whether it should not be more actively involved in the fight against doping and whether, after having financed projects to study the phenomenon, it should not instead finance more effective information and persuasion campaigns, in short, prevention campaigns.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the issue raised by the commission is of the utmost importance, as has been stressed on several occasions. i believe that there is one point which needs to be considered more closely, namely the labelling of medicinal products in relation to their content or those medicinal products which are on the doping list. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this would be an initiative which would be practically free of charge, but which would also be of considerable help. i am also of the opinion, as are many of my colleagues, that we simply need to strengthen the controls, to make them more comprehensive, in order to better identify these abuses.
my oral amendment to paragraph 1a is as follows: ‘requests the georgian government to define its commitment, which appears to be a precondition for achieving a peaceful solution of conflicts and national unification based on consent, towards the autonomy of abkhazia and south ossetia.’
mr president, we are deeply concerned by the excessive speed with which hundreds of non-community nationals have been deported from italy to libya in recent days, and in particular by the lack of transparency in the procedures used. there are concerns that the italian government's action could seriously undermine the fundamental right to seek asylum and the principle of non-refoulement, which prohibits the forced return of a person to a territory where he or she is at risk of suffering serious human rights violations. italy has the possibility of asking for assistance from europe and the international community and all the more reason for its duty to admit refugees seeking asylum on its territory without any discrimination. amnesty international also asked for more information on the current procedures and on compliance with national and international standards. under these rules, asylum seekers are entitled to legal assistance, interpreters, access to the united nations high commissioner for refugees and to non-governmental organisations, all of which the italian government has effectively prevented, in violation of the principles and values of the european community.
in dronero, piedmont, the funeral of jessica and sabrina rinaldo, who died in egypt at the hands of terrorists, is taking place: two girls with clean faces, two real angels, two daisies plucked from the green meadows of our piedmont, from the hearts of their parents, like their honest workers, mowed down by the barbarity of an islamic terrorism that has no respect for anyone, let alone for two innocent, defenseless and young women. i would ask the president of the european parliament to send a message of solidarity to the families of these two young victims.
in writing. the italian delegation of the uen group voted against amendment no 4 on the right to vote for immigrants in the bourlanges report on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice, because it is possible to consider granting immigrants the right to vote in local elections, but the time is not yet ripe to provide for the right to vote in european elections. we also want to make it clear that the recognition of voting rights for local elections must be subject to a detailed regulatory framework through an appropriate proposal, which clearly specifies the modalities, timing and specific legal context.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the proposal, but i think that the new gsp should contain: • reference to the fight against drugs as an 'integral part' of sustainable development. it is particularly important that the reference to the fight against drugs be linked to the new gsp+ regime. the current beneficiaries of the 'drug scheme' would risk seeing their efforts in the fight for alternative crops wasted if they were no longer able to benefit from the gsp. • explicit reference to the expiry of the multifibre arrangement and its impact on the textile sector. on the basis of this reference it will then be possible to ask for differentiated treatment for textile products in the context of the discussions for the new regulation. • non-exhaustive reference to the sections of the common customs tariff as the basic criterion for the application of graduation. the sections are, in the present wording, cited only by way of example. • reference to the regional cumulation of origin. transparent and effective rules of origin are important to avoid fraudulent use of the system, especially through commercial triangulations. • explicit reference to greater effectiveness of safeguard and anti-fraud measures. finally, we would like the future commission to finally take care of the application of the special clauses for workers and to make efforts, including the use of economic sanctions, to eradicate the scourge of child labour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not support mr barroso, as i said in my first speech here, because he represents anti-european powers, anti-european interests and he is the only representative of a contradiction, full of conflicts of interest, and of a commission which i consider to be anti-european in its very essence. let us not forget that mr barroso has, among other things, explicitly supported the us intervention in iraq. i therefore consider him to be partly responsible for the position taken by some european countries alongside the united states, a position which has caused serious damage and harm to our entire continent. the commission and this president should take a very different view of our europe and our european interests. i ask my colleagues not to vote for the barroso commission. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since you first appeared in this chamber, we have had more reasons to vote against you. we have already said that these reasons are war, which you have supported, and liberal policies, of which you are a leading representative. today, not by chance, we add the reasons for democracy. we cannot say that we want to cooperate with parliament and then start by not respecting its vote. you cannot say that the citizens are experiencing a democratic crisis and give this kind of example. that is why our 'no' to you and your commission is a 'yes' to peace, to social europe, to democracy and also to a new era for this parliament. if you and your commission are defeated, parliament and democracy will have won. and the public will have more confidence. (applause) i would like to thank
president barroso, we have already spoken about your idea of a europe with limited sovereignty, subordinate to the united states, in these days when we examined your programme. but we found another quality this morning: the arrogance. parliament does not matter to her, or rather, it matters very little. we have seen that when he arrived late and did not even apologize, unlike president prodi who arrived late but did apologize. the commission is mediocre from the hyperliberal point of view, from the point of view of privatization and because it does not condemn war. it has mediocre commissioners and, with commissioner buttiglione, a bad and medieval commissioner, who damages italy's image and is the leader of a return to the past, precisely to the most backward middle ages, made up of racial discrimination, sex discrimination, gender discrimination. for these reasons we shall vote against your commission. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that this morning's debate has not focused on the commitments of the new commission, on the current emergencies that are so close to the hearts of the citizens we represent. we have not talked about immigration policy, the fight against terrorism, the reform of the structural funds or the reform of the stability pact. the euro theatre is being held up by an ideological and instrumental attack on the commission appointed, and in particular on commissioner buttiglione, who is guilty of having personal opinions and a religious belief. the apology, which was also made by the commissioner-designate, was not enough, nor were the corrections, which were also made by the president-designate: you want to settle accounts at all costs. this is unacceptable. a vote against tomorrow, we do not deny, would open up an institutional crisis which we do not feel the need for at the moment. two days before the signing of the constitutional treaty in rome, which should be a solemn and historic occasion, we cannot afford to allow ourselves a pathetic act of weakness, totally out of step with the expectations of the citizens of europe and the whole world, who would once again see clearly the total political and institutional inconsistency of the community institutions. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in july this group gave you confidence because of the promise you made to us of a cooperative relationship, like that followed by your predecessor, mr prodi. you were chosen by the council, your commissioners by national governments. our job is to examine your commissioners and give you a vote of confidence. we have done our work diligently and we have criticised five commissioners. you ask us to trust you today, i say: i would like to ask you to trust parliament and its judgement. personal guarantees are not enough, nor are promises of a reshuffling after the vote. political choices are made before, not after. we have not changed our minds about the objective of building a strong relationship between the commission and those who democratically represent the people of europe. show that you have not changed your mind by making new choices today, not tomorrow. otherwise, i say this on behalf of the italian delegation of the adle group, we shall vote against this commission. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the berlusconi government has committed a grave sin, professor buttiglione would say, by not confirming monti, a man of the confidence of the powerful. buttiglione was attacked, incidentally, by the same politicians who voted for the european ombudsman, a member of the bilderberg club, in the last parliamentary term, and who are perhaps preparing to re-vote him. but objectively, we still believe that this commission seems to be strengthening the project of a european superstate, as outlined in the new constitution, which is unacceptable to us for the very reasons which are invoked in its support: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. we see it every day in the provisions: the voice of peoples and regions is stifled, even languages, minority languages. this is not the european construction that the founding fathers dreamed of, this is not our history, and therefore we express our dissent from this construction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, on behalf of the new socialist party, which i represent in this house with mr de michelis, i confirm my vote in favour of your commission. the commission was born, alas, amid a thousand controversies, linked more to national and instrumental questions than to problems of breathing and community value. we have confidence in you, mr president, and we expect a policy that is capable of meeting the new challenges facing europe. i am the youngest member of this house and, also as a representative of my peers, i feel that i am bringing to you the hopes and expectations of a new generation of europeans who are calling on you: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. president barroso, we will stand by you, but we ask you to honour the trust we have placed in you with your actions and to make us feel proud to be european citizens.
mr president, mr pannella and i expressed our confidence in you in july and suggested that you add an agenda for democracy to your proposed agenda for peace and development. perhaps we were being prescient, because today we are debating whether or not our union is a parliamentary democracy, whether or not the prerogatives of parliament are protected by the president of the commission, who is the guardian of the treaties. which we don't see at all. the issue at stake today is not the buttiglione case but the barroso case, that is to say, the relationship between the commission, parliament and the council. today, the question is simply the democracy of our european union. it is not an institutional catastrophe at all, but a simple political crisis, which i believe can also have absolutely positive consequences. mr president barroso, this parliament, this parliamentary democracy, is the very essence of our european union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office, this debate is taking place on the eve of the signing of the first european constitution, on the eve of an event which marks the history of a union of 500 million citizens. the europe of tomorrow must be the protagonist of international politics, in a loyal, supportive and balanced relationship with the united states, as you said in your speech. that is why, mr president of the commission, we ask you to make sure that the union has a seat on the un security council. we ask you to continue to play the union's role in the peace process in the mediterranean, looking towards the south of the world, towards the african continent. that is the emergency of the future, that is where we have to try to solve the problems, that is where we have to intervene to deal with the immigration emergency. but the europe we must build in a balanced system of powers - between council, commission and parliament - must also be the home of rights, respect for the centrality of the person, non-discrimination, subsidiarity, transparency, equal opportunities, in short, freedom. the barroso commission is perfectly capable of leading europe towards these objectives and of protecting the interests, rights and freedoms of citizens. i share your views, mr president. i also agree with the italian government's choice to indicate which member of this commission, rocco buttiglione, is to be appointed. a european and pro-european politician who, as italian minister for community policies, has shown that he defends the interests of the union. i should remind the house that the majority of members who have spoken in the buttiglione committee have voted in favour of the commissioner-designate. a commissioner who must and will be judged by what he does and not by his religious beliefs. judging him and the whole commission on this basis would be an anti-european choice, and to do so on the eve of the signing of the constitution would not only be a serious political mistake, but also a deep wound to the european institutions. mr president-in-office, the italian delegation of the people's party, which i lead, has confidence in you and your commission. we are confident that it will represent a new element in the institutional framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president barroso, i am a journalist who has been prevented from continuing to do his job. in italy, the president of the council combines money, politics and television. however, i believe it is up to the italians to put an end to this abnormality, to turn the page, to put their country back on the track of the future. buttiglione's case, on the other hand, is mostly about you. firstly, because it is not the result of prejudice or religious strife, but of the words and actions of the commissioner-designate, who has made him appear to be completely inadequate. it would have seemed inappropriate even to jesus, not just to homosexuals and women, since jesus held that only those who are without sin can cast the first stone. you are being dictated to by the italian government, which is preventing you from finding a reasonable and dignified political solution. the commission is beset by numerous conflicts of interest. however, the conflict of interest of a government is not a shadow, the conflict of interest of a government is a rock, so i do not consider it harmful to the union to vote against it. you could have avoided it, but you did not, and so you end up withdrawing your promises of autonomy and independence from national governments in the very chamber where you made them, in front of the very parliament which you promised to respect. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, president barroso has presented the commission as a single body, a college, which is right and is his political line. the president of the commission has taken the governments' instructions into account, but he has given his commissioners confidence because he, and he alone, is the guarantor of the programme: if barroso is the conductor of the orchestra, as cohn-bendit says, he must tune the instruments and tell us if the musicians can play. we cannot allow cultural reasons outside parliament, cultural intolerance which is foreign to parliament's democracy, to enter this chamber. a moralistic europe, secular and fundamentalist as catholic culture has never been able to be, is beyond the dream of de gasperi and schuman, our fathers, and is an intolerant europe. the vote tomorrow will be a vote of truth, ladies and gentlemen. those who lack popular culture, political and civil tolerance, those who lack institutional culture, will vote no. those who believe in a liberal, tolerant, gentle, supportive and institutional europe, where the relationship between parliament and the government is democratic control of the parliament, and not bureaucratic and trade union control, will vote for barroso, to strengthen the balance between the 25 countries. in an interview given in italy a few days ago, jacques delors said that the commission is a college and does not have individual members. we, who always refer to mr delors, can on this occasion interpret correctly the role of parliament by approving the commission as a whole and the responsibility which the president has assumed today before this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also warmly thank you, madam commissioner. many clouds are gathering in europe's skies at the very moment when, with the completion of enlargement and the signing of the constitutional treaty, we should be acting with new impetus. there is a persistent greed on the part of certain states towards the european project, which is also manifested in the question of resources, an essential condition for the aims to be supported by adequate means. the barroso commission is a weak ally in this battle, and it is also on this point that parliament must become the main champion of defending the credibility of the institutions and regaining the confidence of the citizens. we have, after all, supported the strategy of our rapporteurs, mr garriga and mr jensen, precisely in order to restore consistency to our declarations and to honour the main commitments entered into with the electorate. first of all, the commitment to relaunch the strategy for growth and competitiveness. we have done a good job in the committee on budgets and we need to support it further. i know that a difficult phase will open up in the negotiations and there will be a cry of scandal because we have cut funding, for example, to the agencies. but who really cut the funding to the agencies? we, the parliament, or the council, which is forcing us to make such choices out of greed? the same applies to cohesion policy and external policies: the council considered that the reconstruction of iraq should be a factor in the traditional union programmes. we must be united, ladies and gentlemen. i share the call of president lewandowski: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, with reference to the oral question by mrs sbarbati, i should like to emphasize, quite frankly, the speed with which the commission followed up this case, of which it was only informed through the complaints received from 6 march 2003. the decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure was taken on 17 september 2003 following information provided by the italian authorities on 4 july 2003. the implementing regulation does not, moreover, provide for any time limit for the commission to examine a case. finally, i note that the commission adopted the decision to close the formal investigation procedure on 20 october 2004, i.e. five weeks after receiving the last information from italy. with regard to the second part of the question: the articles in the press before the commission decision is adopted are based on information which does not come from the commission itself, which informs the media of its decisions after they have been adopted, usually by means of a conference and/or a press release. finally, the commission decision states that italy must order all the beneficiaries to repay the incompatible aid, together with interest, and inform the commission of the measures taken and planned to comply with the decision within two months. the commission shall monitor the recovery procedure and may bring the matter before the court of justice in the event of non-execution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wish to say that i am satisfied with the commissioner's answer and i take this opportunity to thank him for what he has done not only in the exercise of his mandate for europe but also to bring glory to our country.
in the name of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by asking the presidency two questions. one is about yesterday: i would like to know what the presidency had to do so urgently to be absent from the meeting. i think that your presence would have been important and absolutely welcome in the kind of debate that we had yesterday. the second concerns the lisbon strategy: before i go into its content, i should like to know how the presidency intends to organise relations between the three high-level reports which have recently been produced: the reason why we have to do this is because we have to do it in a way that is not too difficult to understand, and that is why we have to do it in a way that is not too difficult to understand. i would like the presidency to say something on these two points. i would like to make three comments on the content of the koch report and on how the lisbon strategy is to be continued: when we talk about the european social model, we tend to focus, at least in these reports in the context of the debate on the lisbon strategy, exclusively on the standard of living, on the level of income to be guaranteed, but we believe that this is an extremely limited view of the european social model, which also involves the issue of how we live and therefore the models of solidarity that exist in europe, how we consume and therefore also respect for our environment, and how we produce, thus trying to apply positively the criteria of transparency and participation. secondly, we think it is a real mistake, especially on the part of a group of high-level experts, to consider labour market reforms and the need to reduce rules and constraints as the only real means of being truly competitive. we believe that there is a total lack of serious reflection on the necessary macroeconomic reforms and, for example, on how to overcome the shortage on the demand side. thirdly, in this report, as in others, the question of integrating the environmental dimension into the lisbon strategy seems to be really just a kind of formal tribute, which is not widely believed but which, for reasons of conformity and political correctness, is at least cited. it is a background and is excluded from the real concept of growth. i would also like to know what the presidency intends to do about this. as for the gai matter, we have two concerns about the issues you will be discussing. on the one hand, while it is true that the g5 has essentially ruled out the idea of camps outside the european union, it is also true that the report you will be considering talks about the processing of asylum applications outside the european union, cooperation with third countries, which we are of course not opposed to - we have to see how it is put into practice - and talks about increasing the asylum capacity of third countries, which, when we talk about developing countries, seems particularly cruel to me. i would like to know from you why this general opposition to the camps is reflected in the report in any way and how the presidency intends to deal with this matter. the second difficulty is obviously that of codecision, the famous catwalk, on which there is strong opposition. what is the strategy of the dutch presidency? finally, mr president, a question on the question of enlargement, or rather on this moment between enlargement and the accession of the new member states. i would like to know whether the presidency intends to do something about the turkish-cypriot question. as you know, the leader of the turkish cypriot community has lost his majority. i would like to know what you want to do, because it is clear that the european union cannot, as it is doing at the moment, abandon the turkish cypriots. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the presidency of the council has made a great deal of emphasis today on the need for a safer europe. we believe that before we can have a safer europe we must have a more democratic, a more free and a more welcoming europe. in fact, many abuses and irregularities have recently been committed in the area of guaranteeing the right of asylum: the european union has a duty to help the kurds in the region, and to help them in the region. the geneva convention on non-refoulement is too often violated, asylum seekers are summarily recognised and abuses are committed, including the use of handcuffs, as we have seen recently. the council meeting next week on security, justice and freedom is objectively subordinate to the decisions already taken by the g5 in florence last week. i would like to ask the council presidency what its views are on the use of biometric data in passports and visas and what the council's position is on the establishment of reception camps outside the territory of the union.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party, represented in this house by myself and by mr gianni de michelis. the mid-term review should be a clear and calm moment for analysis and comparison. in acknowledging the important results achieved, it is also necessary to highlight the areas and fields of action in which community action has been the most lacking and slow, again with reference to the parameters set by the lisbon strategy. we also want to emphasize again, as reformists, the importance of the fact that economic growth and development cannot and must not be at the expense of the social model of european solidarity, which is advanced and can be updated but not affected in its guidelines and principles. we believe that the objective of creating a europe of citizens is a fundamental objective. the tools of communication and interaction with the people must be identified to bring europe closer to europeans, since in the past, unfortunately, the community institutions were too often perceived as something abstract and distant: this is a trend that needs to be reversed.
mr president, i was somewhat surprised to find that in both introductory speeches, when the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy was discussed, the words 'the lisbon strategy' were never mentioned. environment and sustainable development. i am not interested in formal recognition, in ritual tributes, but i wonder, mr verheugen, whether this is the kind of continuity you have alluded to. apart from that, there are three good reasons why this third pillar of the lisbon strategy should still be considered strategic. the first is that a few days ago there was a very important, once very positive, international event: the eu has also been active in the field of energy and climate change, and has been active in the field of energy security. the second is that, incidentally, the environment is precisely the area in which the member states are lagging behind most in the implementation of community policies. there is, however, an even more important reason, related to the topic that rightly concerns - somewhat obsessively - the chanceries of all europe at this moment: the problem of competitiveness. how can the european union regain its global competitiveness if it does not bet on the new technologies? if it does not take a technological leadership in the field of environmental technologies? this is the question i am raising and i hope it will be a defining point in the strategy review process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for your report. i would like to address two points: the first concerns lisbon. the european social model can certainly be combined with competitiveness, cohesion and solidarity, which are not just slogans but must be translated into political action. to this end, we must evaluate the results in concrete terms and not give up our ambitions. the key, i repeat, is to focus on training, education and research to give everyone the tools to grow and to be active citizens, so that social protection does not become welfare. the second concerns the citizens' europe, which is just beginning to take off and which certainly needs a great deal of effort on our part in the field of communication. but if we do not want this to remain a mere statement, we must support it with an adequate budget in our budget and certainly the constitutional treaty can be a very good steering wheel.
mr president, to talk about security problems in europe and to remain silent, as was done in the reports which introduced this debate, about the dangers of islamic terrorism is very serious and shows the point of addiction we have reached, perhaps also thanks to the propaganda of the fairy tale of moderate islam and the influence that the circles of the very powerful islamic lobby, rich in petrodollars, have on european politics, on individual states and on the media. on the other hand, as regards the important and sensitive problem of asylum, i believe that the effort, which may be late, to place the examination of these practices and situations within the territory and also within the political and social competence of third countries - i am thinking of african countries - should be encouraged. perhaps african leaders have a clearer idea of this, telling us about a tendency to use this technique falsely, this subterfuge of false asylum claims, and urging us to open our eyes. however, to involve african countries, aid policy must be changed and made more transparent and more serious towards the people of africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reference to the rules of procedure is based on the combined provisions of article 214 of the treaty and, as far as internal rules of procedure are concerned, on the second paragraph of article 99 and also on article 132. mr president, the call i intend to make, as you have already very well mentioned, concerns the deadline set by the treaty for november, for the next few days. secondly, the president-in-office, even in the view of the doctrine, is charged ad actum with presenting the commission to parliament, which, if approved, will then be notified to the council. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of us have suffered injustice in our lives, and for those who are in good faith this is a reason to work so that others do not suffer discrimination and oppression. before every decision, martin luther king asked himself: is that right? i believe it is right for every politician to stand up for his own beliefs and fight to protect the ideas of others in order to achieve the good of the collective. politics is about legislating in the overall interest of the citizens of today and tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we would have preferred to vote today, with mutual acceptance of responsibility. we welcome president barroso's decision, however, and hope that further moments of calm discussion will give the council, which is due to meet shortly in rome to sign the constitutional treaty, the opportunity to reach a calm agreement with parliament and the commission. we renew our esteem for president barroso, confident that his choices and the indications of the governments are in line with the citizens' demand for a transparent commission that respects the principle of subsidiarity and is able to defend the rights of all in the context of the global interest of society, in a european vision, but also in the interest of the rest of the world. we call on parliament, however, to give all committees certain rules, so that we have the same procedure for future hearings. the different methods used so far have not ensured either equal treatment or respect for genuine democracy. (applause) we do not believe - in reply to the statement by the council representative - that the prodi commission can remain in office as long as necessary. the prodi commission must remain in office for ordinary administration until the next plenary session of parliament in strasbourg. on that date, president barroso is due to appear in this house again with the full list of commissioners. otherwise we would have a weak image of this europe, which i think nobody wants. in the last 15 years, i have always said in this house that the secular spirit of parliament can only be preserved if this secularism is not transformed into a new form of fundamentalism which, while claiming to defend certain categories, violates the rights of others. two mistakes never make a reason, but create new overlaps and divisions in society. those who think they are defending cultural or sexual diversity by discriminating against the culture or religious beliefs of others are not acting for the common good but are perpetrating new discrimination. intellectual meanness makes human beings small and arrogant. instead, respect for others enables them to make rules that ensure peaceful coexistence for all. president barroso, the commission must listen to parliament, but reject the blackmail that some are making against it. the commission does not need tutors along the way, but loyal and intellectually honest interlocutors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now refer to the rules of procedure. i am referring to the second paragraph of rule 99 - as does the member whose name i do not know. i think it is absurd that, in the face of such a major political change, this parliament should be deprived of the floor and i think it is necessary to open a debate. it's not just the group leaders who can speak. barroso, by withdrawing the proposal, has exhausted parliament. the president-designate has in fact taken a political line in the formation of the commission and, since each commissioner has already made a transition to the parliamentary committee responsible, the vote should have taken place. we cannot now postpone for a month and go looking for majorities, because parliament is sovereign, otherwise we count for nothing. it's not just the group leaders who can speak. it's everyone. (the president cut off the speaker)
, on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree with the report by the commission and the council and with the rapporteur's report. we believe that india, which is today the world's largest multicultural democracy, should be a strategic partner for the european union in defining new international policy structures that guarantee peace and security. we therefore fully support the recommendation that, at the fifth eu-india summit on 8 november, the council should identify india as a strategic partner of the union. a multilateral approach, which also leads to closer cooperation within the united nations, must be a central objective of the european union's foreign policy, which we are now discussing with the adoption of the new constitution. that is why, if india is a strategic partner, we must consider that all the conditions exist for india and pakistan to resolve the kashmir question peacefully and civilly. without unnecessary external interference, but much more simply, with all the help they can get from the european union's experience in foreign policy. we therefore hope that cooperation will go much further. the european union is india's main trading partner, but india is only the 14th largest trading partner of european countries. we must therefore invest more in economic cooperation between our companies and in research and sustainable development. we believe that the proposals developed for the establishment of a joint centre for indian studies between the european union and india, the possibility of organising cultural weeks to coincide with the india-eu summits and the development of a strategy to make the european union known to the indian people, must be fundamental. that is why we hope that the indian parliament will visit the european parliament as soon as possible. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
at the end of the debate i received six motions for resolutions. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the forthcoming elections in ukraine.
at the end of the debate i received six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday. the sitting was suspended until question time at 6 p.m.
mr chichester, i take note of your request. you will be provided with adequate insurance.
i am sure that, in view of the political sensitivities of the actors involved, appropriate responses will be adopted.
the oral question (b6-0019/04) by mrs záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, to the commission, on women and poverty is on the agenda.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. thank you for the engaging discussion. of course, many points would be worth discussing. i want to pick two. one was the link between the european budget, agricultural spending and poverty and women's poverty in the third world. it was said that almost half of the budget would help to increase poverty among women in the third world. i can't leave it like this. the commission has already made a major effort in the world trade organisation negotiations to reduce agricultural subsidies, to reduce export subsidies and to give the third world countries more opportunities. secondly, agricultural spending is of course essential to preventing poverty in rural areas, in the agricultural sector. we all know that poverty and rural areas have something to do with women, too. in this respect, our programmes in the field of the european budget for rural development are particularly important in preventing poverty among women. the next point concerns the lisbon strategy. the commission has asked for concepts and specific proposals. i would remind you that it was the commission which, in the framework of the lisbon strategy, made it possible to formulate this objective, namely to increase the participation of women in the labour force in a relatively short period of time. it was the commission which pointed out that it is not possible to simply set the objective of increasing the female employment rate without taking concrete action to improve childcare. because the only way to achieve this goal is to have more women in the workforce, and as a woman i was very pleased that the heads of state and government at a summit once dealt with the issue of childcare facilities and came to the conclusion that a higher density of care must be achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the european union.
the debate is closed.
the oral question (b6-0018/04) by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the commission on the environmental impact of high-intensity active sonar in ships is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the devastating effects of global warming, noise and chemical pollution, overfishing and shipping accidents are dramatically degrading our oceans and, inevitably, the whale populations that inhabit them. we now have sufficient scientific evidence to show that high intensity active sonar from ships can be deadly to whales, dolphins and fish. all cetaceans are extremely dependent on hearing for their survival, many species have acute hearing and use sound, not only to locate prey, but also for navigation and communication, often over long distances. the noise pollution caused by sonar devices not only causes physiological damage, but also interferes with the natural behaviour of animals and their normal communication. it masks the calls and disorients the animals, driving them away from their usual habitat, where they feed and breed. last year we voted a resolution on the protection and conservation of the marine environment. this parliament unanimously called for the application of coherent and coordinated measures to halt the decline of biodiversity by 2010 and to promote the sustainable use of the seas, protecting and conserving marine ecosystems. i am not going to remind you, mr president, that these were the political objectives which we committed ourselves to at the last world summit on sustainable development. i therefore believe that it is our duty to adopt measures to preserve the marine world around us, and i therefore call on the commission to respect the deadlines it has set here, to move from studies to concrete proposals.
the commission is supporting this commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. the second is that the commission needs good scientific results if it is to make effective recommendations. in this respect, the study is very important. it will be available soon, and you will of course receive the results and suggestions. the third point: i will refer this resolution to my colleague who will be co-responsible for security research in the commission in the future, because i believe it is very important to exploit the possibilities we have in the field of research.
i have received the motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes and resumed at 11.35 p.m.)
in writing. i declare that i voted in favour of the 04 04 09 line supporting the expenditure of the platform of european social organisations, because of the importance of association in the field of voluntary work in europe. i regret that the line, which i had supported, was not crossed for pilot projects in the field of disability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak for two minutes in support of an important cause. i believe that this is essential if we are to develop a culture which can help prevent and solve the problems that man is causing himself through the endless series of pain, injury and death that too often affect the civilian population and that are caused by the dispersion of landmines in many areas. mines, which are deadly weapons of war and which we must absolutely combat, because they are directed against the civilian population, remain active for an infinite period of time and often make it impossible to carry out effective mine clearance operations. we know that the international community has moved on these issues. the ngos have been active in a major campaign, supported by a collection of signatures, and through a spontaneous movement that has led governments in many countries to conclude the ottawa treaty. a major international treaty that banned anti-personnel mines. today we must go further with that treaty, we must encourage a movement of opinion and then, i hope, action by governments which can draw up further conventions, acts and protocols in order to ban other types of mines. these very deadly mines, cluster mines, which have a devastating effect many times greater than that of anti-personnel mines. anyone who has seen these findings, collected in some horror museum, if i may say so, can only feel indignation and a strong incentive to commit themselves in this direction. we were recently in slovenia, and we were able to see in a museum the effects of this type of mine. we could see pictures, images of camps, images of people injured. meet the people who are bearing the effects of these tools, which the international community must ban. they are not traditional weapons of war, precisely because they come from the battlefield and go to the civilian population, women and children. those children playing in the fields, those women going to the cultivated fields to gather their nourishment, and where instead they find death. i hope that this parliament will commit itself to extending the existing convention to include this other type of lethal instrument.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, war is becoming a means of world government today. the european parliament has a duty to protect the rights of the peoples of europe. the request in the joint resolution which we are voting on today introduces this clause and calls for a moratorium, but also a commitment, to the abolition of the use, production, stockpiling and export of cluster munitions. ammunition dangerous to the civilian population. women, children, old people, men, whom i have seen with their flesh torn and their limbs amputated -- in kabul, in kandahar, in pristina -- in clinics trying to save the salvageable. barbarism, because these bombs are used by our democratic countries. the united states dropped thousands of cluster bombs on the territory of afghanistan and iraq. around kabul i saw these yellow objects that attract children and they are the same color as the food rations, which always came from the sky to the villages. at least 57 countries have stockpiles of cluster munitions, 22 of which are in europe. there is no doubt that there is a violation of the provisions of international law. we must put human rights above military gain: the right to life for millions of people. that is a goal we must take on board. this must be a commitment for the european parliament, as it was for the ratification of the ottawa mine ban treaty, thanks to the tireless work of thousands of people in non-governmental organizations. in europe, we still have to convince poland, finland and latvia to join. we must also negotiate a new protocol to the convention on conventional weapons and promote, at the conference to review the ottawa treaty, a consensus among the states to stop anti-tank mines with sensitive implants, which explode upon human contact. a resolution is not enough, we cannot stop, and for this reason we have also asked for permanent monitoring by the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a good thing that the european parliament should work to ensure that freedom and justice prevail not only in europe - since there are also some countries on our continent where, unfortunately, there is still a lack of freedom - but throughout the world. i think that is one of our tasks, one of our main goals. i therefore believe that we should be particularly concerned about those areas where the risks of the most basic human rights being violated are greatest. the european union has a duty to help the people of the middle east, and to help the people of the middle east. however, i would add that there have been reports recently which, on more than one occasion, have been completely contradictory. this gives us a picture of the present situation which does not give us definitive certainty. i say definitive as we already have some elements. in recent days, the iranian authorities have claimed that what is written in our documents is not true. i cannot, of course, agree with you on this point, but it seems likely that some inaccuracies have been made. i do not think that we should take what the iranian authorities tell us as a given, because we know that in the past, and perhaps even now, this country has not been particularly transparent and democratic. however, perhaps not exactly in accordance with the rules of this house, i think it would be prudent at this time to propose a postponement of the vote on this resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position. i do not, however, wish to question the claims of the iranian embassy. in fact, the iranian embassy sent a letter to our president borrell yesterday - and i have a copy of it - which follows on from an epistolary correspondence also with mrs svensson, in which she disputes the content of our resolutions. i understand that it is not yet clear whether minors are still being executed in iran. according to the iranian authorities, it appears that all executions of minors have been suspended in the past two years. so, having said that, i would suggest that we postpone the vote until another date, and in the meantime listen to the iranian authorities again to get more precise ideas and to consider our vote with more calm and serenity. in any case, if we go to the vote, the uen group will of course vote in favour of this resolution, and i shall abstain in the light of what i have just said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks the groups of the european parliament have received an invitation from the government of the people's republic of china to send delegations for talks. i would remind you that in the last parliamentary term this parliament, in a solemn session, received and listened attentively and with emotion to the dalai lama, who spoke to us about the tragedy and cultural genocide of his people. i call on the representatives of all the groups to make it a condition of their delegation to the people's republic of china that each delegation should be able to verify the conditions of cultural, political and religious freedom of the tibetan people.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a danger that this debate will become an annual deadline, where we all agree more or less, but then there is only a list of good intentions and appeals to the commission and the council. to avoid this, it is essential that the code of conduct becomes a legally binding instrument and that clear penalties are identified against companies based in the european union that do not comply with it. the union must also commit itself to asking other countries, such as the united states, russia and china, to join the code of conduct - also in view of the fact that more than 50% of the world's arms production takes place in the member countries of the un security council. as we speak, my country, italy, has increased its arms exports by 25% year on year and is forecasting an increase of 40% in the future. among the biggest beneficiaries of italy's arms sales is saudi arabia, which is certainly not an example of a country that respects rights. i believe that we must absolutely maintain the arms embargo on china, and furthermore that the defence of human rights must absolutely take precedence over the economic interests of profit. one last note: military spending last year worldwide was $900 billion, of which $700 billion was in the civilised countries of the first world alone. this is not the civilization we want!
mr president, it may also be true that the embargo on china seems anachronistic, especially after the lifting of the embargo on libya, which is certainly not a model of respect for human rights. it is also understandable that china, as a sovereign state, would seek to strengthen its defence to safeguard its security and territorial integrity. it is also true that some small progress has been made in improving respect for human rights, that china remains a leading player in the fight against terrorism and is exerting useful pressure on north korea to stop developing nuclear weapons. however, it is also true that beijing is trying to exploit the differences between us and the united states on this issue. i am surprised that no one in this house has stressed that point: the transatlantic relations, which must remain our paramount concern, will be affected by the more or less common attitude we adopt towards the rising power of china. the strategic balance, however precarious, currently in place in the taiwan strait must also be taken into account. taiwan, which is a model of democracy that china is still very far away from. so if for realpolitik reasons, economic and political reasons, rather than respect for democracy, we want to abolish the embargo, we can only do so by committing the people's republic of china to clear and continuous progress in respecting human rights, as the commission representative has said today. we are trying to discuss, i do not mean to agree, our position with that of the united states and those european countries which are currently opposed to lifting the embargo. i think it is essential to have as much common ground and agreement as possible on this matter.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking mr wiersma for the completeness and quality of his report, i would like to stress on behalf of the uen group the importance of this european union military peacekeeping mission in the very sensitive area of bosnia-herzegovina. this is the first time for the union. beyond the symbolic fact that it will allow the 7000 soldiers already operating under the aegis of nato to now wear the twelve-star symbol on the sleeves of their uniforms, the mission is also meant to mean more europe, and thus greater visibility of the union in the balkans. if in the 1990s, when bloody ethnic conflicts erupted in the region one after the other, people wondered where europe was and whether there was a painful absence on our part, today we are witnessing a presence and an attention appropriate to the circumstances on the part of our institutions. the 7000 soldiers will arrive in bosnia strong, even before the weapons, above all with their skills, their humanity, their availability to the local populations. the latter are aware of the need for a military presence in the territory, at this delicate stage of stabilizing the country, and are therefore ready to welcome them with great favour. these soldiers don't come into uncharted territory alone. the institutions, the commission and the high representative of the union are with them in bosnia. for two and a half years he has been working as a true enlightened governor in bosnia, in the difficult attempt to ensure the establishment of a state governed by the rule of law in a renewed framework of peaceful coexistence between the country's three largest ethnic groups. finally, there is this parliament, which, with its delegation led by the tireless president pack, is closely following events in bosnia, as the recent visit to that country shows. the visit served to reiterate to the members of the parliament of bosnia and herzegovina the principles and paths of rapprochement with the european union. today in the context of the association and stabilisation agreements and tomorrow, which is not yet foreseeable in time, in the context of future accession. this, however, must not be an illusion. important steps have been taken in bosnia towards stabilisation. the desire for normalization is palpable in many parts of the country and the desire to forget the past and think about the future belongs to all its inhabitants. of the 16 items included in the feasibility study, many have already been translated into standards. it is right and comforting to note this, but much remains to be done. the military peacekeeping mission under the aegis of the union has been there since 2 december.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is at the very least acceptable to regard financial aid to the northern part of cyprus as a form of charity. however, if we consider them as an investment for development, they are money thrown out the window. it is a waste of money because as long as the turkish occupation of part of the island, which is now part of the european union, continues, and as long as turkish troops are in the northern part of cyprus, there will be no development. it's proven by facts, it's proven by history: there will be no improvement in economic conditions. i therefore think it would be better to have the turkish troops withdrawn first and then to intervene with financial aid.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the council and commission statements on climate change.
at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i am not going to vote for it. i therefore call the debate to a close. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the agenda includes the corbey report (a6-0027/2004) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste.
before i give the floor to commissioner wallström, i would remind those who have chosen to use non-official languages of the union that this institution deeply respects their decision, but at the same time it is aware of the decision of the bureau of 27 october last year that speeches in these languages cannot be translated and consequently cannot be recorded. so it is a free choice on the part of members of parliament to defend the minority languages of the union and at the same time we remember that in the constitution we have written unitas in diveritas, unity in diversity.
i declare the debate closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m. on wednesday.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation in cuba.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our friendship with cuba is longstanding and enduring. you see, cuba represents the attempt of a small island to decide its own existence, and to do it differently than the great imperial power. we look at this with solidarity. of course, we can also express our criticisms explicitly and without any qualms, as we have done and are doing, for example, with regard to the death penalty or certain judicial procedures. we do not want to see the european union's military action against cuba. cuba has been suffering for decades from a ferocious economic blockade by the us administration. i do not see why europe should accept such behaviour. on the contrary, it is relations, exchanges and comparisons that can foster understanding and improvement. in latin america, important, historic things are happening, as evidenced by the progressive victories in countries such as brazil, venezuela, uruguay. the logic of liberal globalisation and war - we have seen terrible images today - calls for a different policy: cuba is part of this latin america. this latin america needs a relationship with europe and europe needs a relationship with latin america. we call for the repeal of all acts of discrimination against cuba, and therefore the council's common position must be followed by a similar request to the us government. at the same time we call for the strengthening of free and fruitful relations.
i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. the council unanimously adopted political sanctions against the cuban regime in july 2003 following the indictment of 75 dissidents and the death sentences of three citizens who tried to flee to the usa; the fact that the cuban authorities have not yet taken action against the cuban authorities is a fact which, unfortunately, is part of a general picture of the continuing and repeated violations and denials of fundamental freedoms in cuba, as was recently confirmed by colat. the regime of fidel, in deep trouble, as a result of increasing internal and international pressure, is becoming more and more oppressive and repressive, especially towards the new generations, who dream of a future of freedom, true democracy and development, a new and open horizon, incompatible with the current communist establishment. europe is therefore continuing firmly on the road it has taken, with particular attention, however, to avoiding any further negative repercussions for the population, in order to lay the foundations for a fruitful and renewed dialogue without resentment between the cuban people and europe in the post-castro era. friends of cuba, friends of cubans, enemies of all dictators!
mr president, there is little time to deal with a matter as complex and rich as the cuban one. certainly in the short run we must remember david's battle against goliath. the battle of an island that, for over forty years, has been waged by the giant of the world: the united states. but we are in europe, and we must talk about europe. i think it is right that the european union should change its attitude towards cuba, because the current position is entirely dependent on pressure from the united states government. europe would thus also be signalling its independence, its autonomy - which does not mean confrontation with the united states - but it does mean autonomy and independence in the judgement of international affairs. we are talking about fighting terrorism, about fighting for human rights, but can we ask a question? why is it that anywhere in the world, if someone hijacks a ship or a plane, they are called terrorists, while if they do the same thing in cuba, they are called freedom fighters or dissidents? why are there two weights and measures when it comes to cuba and when it comes to iraq? these are the reasons why - while we are romanticists and love poetry - we would not hesitate to support all the acts and resolutions in favour of cuba, its people and its original revolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cuba has been in a state of waiting for some time. pressure from outside is mounting, while there is a relative deterioration of freedom of expression and human rights in general at home. in this situation, the european union must take a clear position without waiting for further developments. what is the prospect for europe? it is right to ask this, because there are those who wish, particularly in the united states, for a traumatic collapse of the regime within a hegemonic vision, essentially unchanged since the imposition of the embargo until today. at the same time, i must say that it is not clear what kind of dynamic vision of the future of their country the cuban ruling classes have today after the end of the cold war. all in all, we are facing a deadlock, caused by political stagnation both at home and abroad. in this situation, i believe that the union cannot simply retreat behind the issue of human rights, or worse still, accommodate those who use them as a political tool. it could be shown, by many examples, that what is true of cuba is not equally true of many other countries. the recent eu-asean summit, with full participation of burma, is a good example of the double standards in human rights. in this house today, commissioner patten said that the commission has never made a direct link between the possible lifting of the arms embargo and human rights policy. the european parliament has been rightly pointing out that further progress in the field of human rights could have facilitated a review of the european attitude. - i know. i do not see why the same pragmatic approach, based on a positive approach of incentives - and not simply sanctions and punishments - should not be applied to cuba. in the era of globalisation, helping to break cuba's isolation by means of closer economic cooperation would, as we know and as experience has shown, have positive repercussions on its internal policy, starting with human rights. only those who look to the future with the eyes of the past, with a taste for ideological revenge, can ignore this simple truth. the european union therefore needs a change of pace. we need more imagination and we need a new and independent policy towards cuba. a more advanced and closer phase of political dialogue and cooperation must be opened, fully involving not only the government authorities but also civil society in all its components. we must open the way to a peaceful and agreed transition towards a fully democratic and pluralist evolution, and affirm the idea of a cuban path to democracy. these must now be the objectives of the european union.
i have received four motions for resolutions at the end of the debate. the motion for a resolution: i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 november 2004 at 12.30 p.m.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate that president balkenende has taken as his starting point the dramatic events in the netherlands, which have disturbed tolerant holland. the netherlands of integration, although that word was completely absent from the president's speech today. however, i was not at all pleased that the very serious events in iraq were not mentioned today. yesterday, devastating images were echoed in our homes - us marines killing wounded iraqis - as if barbarity and horror were ordinary administration that should not even be mentioned. i believe that europe cannot stand by passively while these events are taking place, or deal only with the reconstruction appropriations - as the council has done recently - or simply meet with allawi, or rely on the forthcoming elections as the event which will resolve the conflict. on the hague programme: i do not think there is any continuity with tampere, but i do see a qualitative leap that was caused by a misunderstanding. we cannot put the issue of organised crime, terrorism, human trafficking and immigration in one pot, as if they were one problem. in reality, this is a scheme to limit europe's action to the field of security, to the exclusion of justice and freedom. i believe that islamic terrorism must be fought through intercultural and interreligious dialogue. unlike his deputy minister, president balkenende, who declared war on islam the day after van gogh's murder, or like his country does by funding religious schools. i think instead that we should build a school where catholics, muslims, protestants and atheists all live together. finally, human trafficking and immigration are not the same thing. we must punish the criminals, but above all satisfy the needs: the need for refugees from war and hunger, who come to our territory, seeking shelter in our solidarity and integrated europe.
mr president, we are very concerned about the worsening situation in iraq. the attack in falluja and the way in which the civilian population was involved, in addition to being yet another denial of international law and the geneva convention, are fuelling the spiral of hatred. i would like to turn my thoughts from here to poor mrs margaret assan, who was brutally murdered yesterday. both terrorism and war as a response to terrorism are pushing away the prospect of peace and democratization in the country. we therefore call on the union to play a role in the conference to be held in sharm el sheik on 23 november and to use its influence, in the light of the unity achieved, to demand full acceptance by all of un resolution 1546, starting with respect for international law and human rights. in these circumstances, it is legitimate to have serious doubts about the real possibility of holding elections by january 2005. the outcome of the elections in the united states and the replacement of colin powell could further embolden the ultra-conservative forces, both in iraq and in the middle east. i am less optimistic about the middle east, because it does not appear that prime minister sharon has given more to abu mazen during his presidency than he has given to arafat. in this connection, in addition to renewing our solidarity with the palestinian people for the loss of their historic leader, we call for the union to commit itself by political and financial means to the proper conduct of the presidential and local elections in palestine and to bring the road map out of the current deadlock. this would make it possible to replace, i repeat, to replace the unilateral acts of the sharon government with genuine negotiations, which, by resolving the most controversial points, such as the settlements and the right of return, would lead to the creation of a palestinian state and the coexistence of the two peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions of the european council come at a delicate juncture in the institutional life of the union, on the eve of the historic signing of the constitutional treaty in rome and in the wake of the new interinstitutional debate that has arisen as a result of the failure of the european parliament to vote on the investiture of the new commission. the text of the council conclusions finds a parliament more aware of the new era of parliamentary democracy that has opened up in europe and deserves some reflection. first of all, the lisbon objectives must be pursued with more impetus, rigor and the courage to choose, as kok argues. the challenge of global competition requires us to keep up our ambitions and requires strong political responsibility and determination to complete structural reforms by governments and support the change in the dimension of social security. but a balanced budget is needed if the lisbon strategy is to remain a key policy component of the commission, as president romano prodi has argued. this is also important in the preparation of the fundamental european pact for youth, whose essential coordinating elements are education, training, work and research. these issues require smart, generous and coordinated policies, but above all, certainty of investment. finally, the strategy for communicating europe and making the constitutional treaty known also requires investment, but to date i do not think there is a suitable expenditure line in the budget.
mr president, i consider the hague programme to be insufficient and inadequate to counter terrorism with measures which should finally be adequate. this phenomenon, moreover, is never called by his name: the european union must not be afraid of the islamic terrorism, because that is what europe is afraid of. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism, but it has not clearly stated that it is necessary to monitor banks and financial institutions, because money from the apparently legitimate activities of islamic fundamentalism is also laundered in european banks: butchers, networks, support centers that are ostensibly religious. i am not sure. the european union's tough measures against terrorism, announced only after the barbaric murder of the film director van gogh, follow the good example of the netherlands, which had the courage to point out the most important measure: the closure of all mosques and islamic centers infiltrated by terrorist and extremist propaganda. the places where this propaganda takes place and where funds are raised to fuel the barbaric murder of innocents, as in madrid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to congratulate you on your presidency. i particularly noticed that your english is perfect. i shall then explain why i voted in favour of the samuelson report, which establishes the european agency for reconstruction. i was in venice, at the teatro la fenice, a few days ago, following the opera "la traviata" with our great colleague karl von vogau. i asked her how she would vote on this report, which also envisages the reconstruction of serbia. he said: "but of course, it is good to rebuild what was destroyed by communism and milosevic in our country, but you who have a president berlusconi who also rebuilds the face, could you also rebuild the face of us elderly people who would like it so much? "
mr president, a few days ago i was wondering whether the appropriations - eur 114 million in 2005 and eur 139 million in 2006 - for the turkish cypriot community were going to go, at least in part, to pensioners living in the turkish part of the island of cyprus. as i was thinking about this, closing my eyes, i saw, clearly in a dream, mrs. mechtild rothe, who answered me by saying: "what are your doubts, fatuzzo? most of this money will go to the island's elderly and retired people". so how could i not vote for this document?
mr president, i was in reggio calabria to catch a plane to the european parliament session. i was accompanied to the airport by the head of the calabrian pensioners' party, carlo rositani, and we were early, so i told him about this document which seeks to restrict and regulate arms exports to the european union. he held out his arms and said: "fatuzzo, you must not only vote in favour of this regulation but also ask that no more arms be exported, with or without regulations. in europe, in the european parliament, all the governments of the world must understand that arms must not be exported anywhere. "i think that is a correct observation and i am happy to repeat it in this chamber today.
mr president, i was leaving genoa a few days ago, where i met the head of genoa's pensioners, mr rossi mauro. i would like to thank mr rossi for his report, and i would like to thank him for his work on the report. but it's easy, he said, fatuzzo, the text of the report is fine. but you have to ask the european parliament, as the elected representative of the party of pensioners, to send you to havana to talk to fidel castro, to offer him a good pension. fidel castro is not leaving power because he is not sure he will have a fair and good pension. get yourself assigned to go, convince him to quit his job, he's entitled to a nice pension like everyone else. that would solve cuba's problems, rossi told me, and i agree with him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this european council resolution. however, i must say that i would have voted in favour even more readily if the council had realised that among the many objectives it sets itself it would have been good to include the restoration of trust between the citizens and the governments of the european states. what do you mean, "what"? by building trust in governments, that is, by guaranteeing citizens a pension at all times and in all circumstances. without the rules on the pension system being changed continuously whenever the statistical institutes find that the elderly are living longer. i therefore wish you a good appetite and apologize for the delay to the presidency, my colleagues and all the interpreters.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group/european free alliance felt it was very important to fight for the european parliament to make its voice heard on an important issue: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the information provided by the member states. the choice of those - including you, mr pottering, mr watson - who were calling for sacrilege, for an apocalyptic crisis, over something as trivial as asking to change a team that is not working, has proved to be wrong. contrary to what was thought, the public has fully understood and supported what has happened here. this seems to me to be a point that needs to be emphasized. nevertheless, my group has unanimously decided not to support your commission. the changes you have made are minimal, and although they clear the field of the bulky presence of rocco buttiglione, they do not solve the most serious problems and above all they keep your commission in an unacceptable position of weakness and vulnerability. it is true, mr watson, that this commission is better than the one we had on 27 october, but we could have had an even better one. we still consider it a mistake, beyond his personal competence, to appoint as commissioner for justice a minister who has signed a farce law on conflict of interest and comes from a government which is led by a gentleman, silvio berlusconi, who has just been asked for an eight-year prison sentence for corruption. (applause) but, alas, the berlinisation of europe is advancing, and with its commission, conflict of interest is becoming a european vice. the netherlands, a country always ready to give the great moral lessons, is the most problematic case for us. without underestimating the negative impact that mrs fischer boel's conflict of interest could have on the common agricultural policy, it is clear that the case of mrs kroes is the most dangerous threat to the credibility of your commission, mr barroso. (applause) the ridiculous statistics produced by the commission services on the basis of faulty calculations cannot conceal the fact that if mrs kroes had been in monti's place, she would have had to step aside in 35 cases. moreover, statistics show that there are three cases at the moment on which your commission will be hampered and not very credible: the commission has also been involved in the reform of the competition rules in the maritime transport sector, the ongoing investigations into the so-called 'bitumen cartel' - a particularly serious case because mrs kroes was, until a few weeks ago, a member of one of the companies in question - and the investigation into the possible abuse of a dominant position by the british mobile telephone operator mmo2. competition - frankly, it is a bit ridiculous that a green should have to mention this in a parliament and a commission full of liberals - is one of the cornerstones of the union's credibility, and the commissioner responsible must be above suspicion. now, why would you want to put europe at such risk? why, after the santer crisis, the eurostat controversy and the buttiglione psychodrama, do you take it upon yourself to weaken your commission to this extent? it's true, it's not just sharing this responsibility, my colleagues shultz, pottering, watson helped her: the european parliament has been a great success on 27 october and has been a great success. we're not staying and we won't be responsible in case of trouble. it is you and those groups who have sacrificed to contingent party interests and to the accounting of how many commissioners belong to your political family who will be responsible for the future of your institution. finally, mr president, we believe that stavros dimas' choice of the environment is not accidental. it reflects the precise hierarchy of priorities of your commission where the environment is not. we are certainly prepared to try to make a charm offensive against commissioner dimas and to admit that we were wrong, if he can show us more energy and more competence. very quickly, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that it is not only the composition of your commission that is a problem but also the direction in which this commission wants to go. we shall try to oppose it in a most constructive spirit, and we hope that we shall at some time convince you that our way is the right way.
on behalf of the group. mr president, we have high expectations of this new commission, which we will be voting for tomorrow. in short, we expect the creation of a europe which can finally play a real and effective role. there are many unforgettable goals: firstly, the much-debated revision of the stability pact is necessary so that it also becomes a pact for growth and development. in this connection, we would like to insist on the inclusion of the so-called 'golden rule' - the rule which allows expenditure on research and investment to be excluded from the calculation of the public debt. another key issue is the fight against illegal immigration and terrorism. this can no longer be reduced to repression alone, but must be directed towards the implementation of an economic aid plan for the poorest countries in the middle east and for the developing countries, in order to deal with the root causes of the problem, which are identified above all in poverty and social exclusion. finally, the common foreign and security policy. after the monetary union has been achieved, concrete action is finally needed if europe is to play a leading role in the international arena. it is therefore of fundamental importance to open a debate on the reform of the un security council, at the end of which the european union can claim a decisive role. the important thing is that this europe does not remain in its torpor and rhetoric, but instead becomes concretely active and effective on the international scene. in conclusion, i would remind mr schulz that the european commission has a clear and democratic duty to deal with the whole of parliament and not to agree with just one political group, as he has said. his remarks are - forgive me for using a word which may be a little harsh - vaguely blackmailing, unworthy of a large group such as he represents. finally, he'll give me one final joke: we hope that the same fervor which has been shown by a section of this parliament for the anti-buttiglione - and even somewhat anti-italian - crusade will be directed in future to the better cause of a europe of concreteness and actually interpreting the expectations of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address the president of the commission by paraphrasing the first catilinarian of cicero: what is the point of our patience, mr barroso? you want to abuse our patience for the next five years? you keep saying that you will have the support of parliament and then, in a show of prestige, you present us with a team that does not solve the questions raised by this institution at all. there was a dutch commissioner criticized for his conflict of interest and there still is; there was an inadequate hungarian energy commissioner who was promoted to taxation; there was an italian justice commissioner who was rightly removed and now there is another justice commissioner, also italian, who points out that the government of that country - whose president has notorious judicial problems - needs to be protected by his commission. you know, mr barroso, that in the field of justice the action of the italian government - of which mr frattini is still a member - has triggered the joint strike of magistrates and lawyers. finally, let parliament judge how the commissioners responded at the hearing and i assure you that the letter from the committee on freedom on commissioner frattini is not a full-fledged promotion. please answer, how long will you abuse our patience?
mr president, the secular fundamentalism which dominates the committee on civil liberties has forced your commission to replace professor buttiglione with another commissioner, who has been subjected to a barrage of questions and has had to adhere strictly to the strictest regime of political correctness. however, in this commission, there is still a character like mr louis michel, who, as a belgian minister, even called for the removal of our country from european democracy by means of sanctions, simply because the political movement of the northern league was in his government. a true champion of democracy and tolerance! we will certainly be keeping a close eye on him, mr barroso, over the years. the commission welcomes the adoption of qualified majority voting also on sensitive issues, such as asylum and immigration, which involve the direct responsibility and sensitivity of individual nations and states. i would even say individual regions. this commission is firmly committed to the primacy of european law over the law of individual nations. this speaks volumes about the process of expropriation of national sovereignty which is being supported uncritically, with many salutations to the law, history and traditions of individual nations and regions. the commission continues to ignore and trample on the fundamental rights of minority peoples, which must also be guaranteed in some places: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the rights of the stateless nations - the corsican, the basque, the alsatian, the sardinian and the occitan - whose rights are not recognized by the commission.
mr president-in-office, it is not the sundial that you have set in motion, but a legal clock, which is not of history, it is not of our civilization. i shall not vote for your commission, because you have not resolved the many conflicts of interest. you have only adapted the commissioners-designate with the diligence, logic and mechanisms typical of the worst forms of consociativism. you have easily succeeded in getting the most pro-atlantic, pro-american ally in the council of europe to replace professor buttiglione - who, although not sharing his prejudices against mothers, was easily discriminated against - while mr kóvacs and mrs kroes remain among your commissioners, both of whom are involved in a clear conflict of interest. you have spoken of social justice, the union's primary role, support for sustainable development, pretending that all this is not in open contradiction with the policies you and many of your commissioners support. policies which are against nations and against the interests of peoples, like the european constitution, the sprawling bureaucratic monstrosity which you all want to impose on the peoples of europe. if this commission is to work towards the elimination of social discrimination, if it is to correct the policies of precariousness of life, if it is to support policies of demographic and family development, if it is to defend our producers against the onslaught of non-european competitors, if it is to halt any process of enlargement without the peoples of europe having first spoken out on the matter, then perhaps it will have our support. otherwise, he will find men and women of europe, as hard as the stones of karnak, as sunny as the stones of the parthenon, on his way, who will continue to be, as they are today, completely opposed to him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, you are aware of the visceral attachment of the italian delegation of the european people's party to the barroso commission. so, considering this a fairy tale with a happy ending, i will confine myself to a few words of thanks, albeit with a few points of questioning. the first, most heartfelt thanks go to you. he said he would do what was necessary and sufficient to secure parliament's approval. i do not understand, quite frankly, why it was necessary to replace commissioner buttiglione, but italy has retained its justice portfolio and has a very good commissioner, the vice-president of the commission. that's more than enough for me. a big thank you to our friends in the liberal group, they have really given an interpretation to the lost italian members of parliament who have been debating the issue of conflict of interest for years. the inexpressible way in which they fought for parliamentary prerogatives has led to the fact that we now know that this is how conflicts of interest are defended, or rather how they are fought: pretending that there's no interest. when you sit here and you call out the monster berlusconi, we know it's spelled berlusconi but it's spelled kroes. another thank you to our friends in the socialist group. i do not understand why their opposition to the barroso commission has suddenly disappeared. however, i think it may be related to the failure of the hungarian commissioner to sanction. i should especially thank the spirited chairman of the socialist group for this, but i do not, because every time someone from my own party speaks of mr shulz, he is promoted to a higher post. i'll just ask you one last question: the commission's proposal is not a mere proposal to make a new directive, but a proposal to make a new directive. you said that democracy is half plus one, but today perhaps democracy in this parliament is the whole minus one, the very wicked and very catholic buttiglione.
mr president, the reshuffle you have made in the wake of the resounding failure of many commissioners-designate is late and inadequate. you, mr barroso, have tried to the last to ignore the will of parliament. when he was forced to do so, he changed his team as little as possible, forgetting to replace, for example, mrs kroes in the competition, despite the obvious and serious conflict of interest in which she was involved. i would like to reassure my colleague mauro of the ppe on this point. i, as a liberal, will vote against the commission precisely because it has not replaced the liberal mrs kroes. the replacement of buttiglione by frattini does not seem satisfactory either, notwithstanding the undoubted professional skills which we acknowledge in commissioner frattini. however, it is precisely these professional skills, which he has put at the disposal of the president of the italian council to draft a law on conflicts of interest which is really biased, that make us uneasy. i shall therefore vote against the barroso commission, because of a lack of confidence in it, and i sincerely hope that i can change my mind in the future.
mr president, the replacement of commissioner buttiglione is certainly a step forward, a gesture of goodwill which, in our view, is still insufficient. we are very puzzled by the decision to retain mrs kroes as a candidate, even though we know that this appointment will objectively determine the conditions for a conflict of interest. in an executive, i tell you from the painful experience of the italian government, conflicts of interest are the cause of bad policy. finally, there is a negative assessment of some of the basic policy choices which you presented to us in july: i am referring to the ambiguity on the issues of war and peace, the excessive emphasis you place on the market and competitiveness, the acceleration you want to impose on the liberalization processes. i am referring to certain political choices which, if i may say so, mr president, appear to us to be decidedly right-wing. for these reasons, mr barroso, you will not receive our confidence tomorrow.
mr president, mr barroso, our italian delegation feels that you have missed the historic opportunity that this parliament has offered you: the commission is not the only institution in the world which is facing the challenges of the future. mr buttiglione was not the only problem with your weak team, you did not do enough to earn our full confidence, which we will not responsibly give you. the heavy issue of conflict of interest in the most important portfolio - competition - which was previously masterfully handled by mario monti, remains. mauro and other group leaders say: we have not made concessions to buttiglione, we have condemned the italian government's imprudence in requesting the delegation of power to the judiciary, we have appreciated the preparation and the grace of mr frattini, without underestimating his reticence. however, we would have liked to see similar rigour and severity in the case of conflicts of interest and other serious problems hampering your commission, in which some commissioners will be prevented from fully carrying out their mandate.
mr barroso, you have come back to the european parliament with a new approach, and that is a good thing. i think and hope that you have understood in substance that the future of european democracy does not rest solely on two legs, the council and the commission, but that there is a third party who counts and wants to count. this body is the european parliament. i am aware of the efforts you have made in this direction: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them. however, some problems remain which cannot be underestimated. i would like to emphasize two points: the first concerns its programme lines for social policies, which are well below - to say the least - the requirements of a europe of work, social affairs and rights in the light of lisbon. the second problem is the presence of mrs kroes on your team. i have the impression that this commissioner will soon be in a sea of trouble. your conflict of interest is now public knowledge and by confirming it, mr barroso, you are weakening yourself and your action. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, but i cannot express confidence in its ability to do so. in any case, i wish you a good job, above all for the sake of europe.
mr president of the commission, in these weeks we have had the opportunity to appreciate your approach to this parliament. this method shows a high sense of the european institutions. that is why we are convinced that you will lead the commission in the next five years in a new and different way, even from the most recent past, by bringing about a sort of copernican revolution. we are certain that we will have a president who will not side with this or that political party. europe needs women and men who will play the role of top officials in all the institutions, including the european parliament and its committees - i am referring to mr bourlanges, who is absent from the house. we need, in short, an increasing emphasis on institutions. that is why we would have liked other governments, starting with the hungarian socialist government, to have shown the same institutional sensitivity as the italian government in recent weeks. (applause) i would like to thank only a commission which is not concerned with influencing national policy can have the prestige and authority to enable europe to have a balanced institutional system within which this parliament can finally have full legislative power. a commission of this kind must be committed to the adoption of the constitution as soon as possible. the birth of the first fundamental law of the union is a great achievement for all of us, although i share the regret of the ppe members that it did not include an explicit reference to the christian roots. but we all have a duty to give political will to this great work of constitutional engineering. in short, europe must be given a soul and a heart, otherwise we risk having only a europe of money and bureaucracy. that is why this parliament has voted in favour of the union having a seat on the renewed un security council. the aim is to have a europe that counts more and more on the international chessboard, a europe that is a bearer of peace, as it has been within its own borders for the last fifty years. we are confident that you will choose the positions of parliament, as a man of the institution, not of the party. it is precisely because you will be a man of the institution, at the exclusive service of the citizens, that you will have the confidence of the italian delegation of the european people's party.
mr bourlanges, i take note of the personal statement which will follow the case, in accordance with our rules.
the next item is the report (a6-0030/2004) by mr proinsas de rossa, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the 2003 annual report of the european ombudsman.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr de rossa on his effective and complete report. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in nice has further defined the content of european citizenship, which is already included in the maastricht treaty. the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the european citizen has thus taken a step forward in improving relations between the union and its citizens. although citizens are entitled to community rights and rules concerning their activities, they have little chance of defending themselves against possible cases of maladministration. the need to ensure civil coexistence and to respond concretely to the needs of the community is therefore becoming more and more urgent. the ombudsman's task is to propose appropriate solutions and to assert the fundamental rights and guarantees of the individual. the institution of the ombudsman is the most visible expression of that sovereignty which is rooted in the people and which works to defend individual rights against the institutions, which citizens ask to be protected. in essence, the european ombudsman and the integrated european civil defence system offer every citizen the possibility of making use of them and, if necessary, of making the european institutions more transparent and effective, of contributing to the enlargement of the union to include the other candidate countries, and of promoting the development of a culture of protection of citizens' rights. the european ombudsman is therefore the terminus of any citizen who feels that his or her rights have been infringed: the european parliament, which is the highest authority in the community, can investigate and propose solutions in cases of maladministration by the community institutions and, if the conciliation solution proposed by it fails, can make recommendations or refer the matter to the european parliament. according to the annual report which our ombudsman has presented to us today, he has dealt with a wide range of issues, including the practical contribution of the european ombudsman network: the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency (eea) since its inception in 1995. the importance of his timely and impartial action is therefore plain to all. its role, introduced into the community legal order by the maastricht treaty of 1992, is now mainly in the field of defence of citizens against a jungle of rules and structures, already extensive within individual countries, which will become increasingly complex in the construction of a more complete supranational legal order. the european parliament, therefore, in thanking the ombudsman, must commit itself to making the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, which is its operational arm for analysis, monitoring and proposals, more valuable, in order to promote the process of democratization and social cohesion. the european ombudsman's work, supported by the commission and its technical structures, makes it possible today to consolidate the concept of european citizenship, to spread and enhance the culture of civil defence in europe, and to move from a model of bureaucracy that weighs on the union's institutions to that of civil defence, and above all to that of the power of citizens, which is complete democracy. in view of this qualitative leap, i welcome the report presented today on the organisational side. in this way we can continue to strengthen the system of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the principles of cooperation and subsidiarity, so that the european citizen becomes effectively the dominus and not a mere voter called upon to vote.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. i am the mayor of a town on the outskirts of rome and in my administrative work i have had the opportunity to highlight the importance of the ombudsman's role as an interface and filter between the administration and the citizen. the european ombudsman, mutatis mutandis, must - or should - represent a modern, effective and efficient point of interaction between the community institutions and the europeans, bringing us closer to the realization of the fundamental right of every citizen to good administration carried out on the basis of transparent and fair criteria, as enshrined in the charter of nice. the way forward is to be welcomed, with the establishment of a network of ombudsmen and other national and local bodies to which complaints for which the ombudsman is not competent can be referred. efforts must be stepped up to create a comprehensive and effective system of out-of-court redress for the benefit of european citizens. even after these first months of work as a member of the committee on petitions, i must nevertheless consider that, as the data contained in the present report, which has been so well drafted by mr de rossa, show, there is still a great deal of misinformation and confusion about the exact powers of the european ombudsman. although the work carried out in 2003 was regular and in accordance with the procedures, it is important to make a significant difference in the perception of individual european citizens by bringing the ombudsman, who has been too detached, closer to everyday life. the desired revision of the ombudsman's statute will have to focus on this aspect, increasing the real and concrete possibilities of solving the problems raised. a european ombudsman who becomes a real link between the community, the police and the institutions which govern it.
ombudsman. mr president, i very much appreciate the willingness of the house to listen to my concluding remarks. i will be very brief. i wish to thank all the members of the house who honoured me with their remarks for the constructive nature of those remarks. i wish to thank mrs reding for her comments and to point out that, as 13 years ago she was chairman of the committee on petitions, she has the experience needed to appreciate the kind of work done by that committee and by the office of the ombudsman. i wish to thank mr libicki, chairman of the committee on petitions, for his comments, and to assure him that i look forward to working closely with him in promoting the joint and common goals of the ombudsman in that committee. i will not answer all the comments individually, but would like to make some general points. i would urge the commission to revisit the issue of the code. the commissioner might have been too modest in saying that she does not have the information at the moment to be able to assess the possibility of moving forward. to the extent that this is possible, i assure her that i am at her and the commission's disposal to help move this issue forward for the benefit of all citizens. access to documents, transparency and the promotion of non-judicial means are, and will remain, at the top of my priorities. let me conclude by making three remarks. in addition to the 54% increase in complaints this year, we have also experienced a 62% increase in admissible complaints. this suggests that more and more people are coming to us for the right reasons. that suggests, in turn, that we have been successful in informing people of how to proceed correctly and about what we can do for them. my second point concerns the fact that 70% of the complaints were made against the commission. this clearly does not suggest that the commission is working worse. it simply reflects the fact that it is with the commission that the vast majority of citizens have dealings. it is inevitable that the majority of complaints made will be against the commission. the degree of resolution and cooperation we receive from the commission is high. i will keep on top of this situation, and remain very conscious of the need for me to act as a control mechanism in respect of the institutions, including the commission. lastly, i want to go on record again in thanking mr de rossa for his report, thanking the committee on petitions and thanking this house for its support. i remain committed to serving the citizens with your cooperation and support. (applause)
i declare the debate closed. the vote will take place shortly.
mr president barroso, commissioners, who also had the vote of mr fatuzzo of the pensioners' party, a group of the european people's party/european democrats, i would like to invite president barroso - who i am told is 48 years old and therefore very young - precisely because of his young age, to take to heart - as i am sure he will do and as young people usually do - the plight and problems of the elderly throughout europe. the elderly, in fact, are in great numbers in a situation of severe economic hardship, with many of them having pensions that are barely enough for a glass of water and a piece of bread. i think that reaching the elderly in need throughout europe is one of the goals we would very much like to see achieved in the next five years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sichuan court ruling should not have attracted the attention of the international press, since this is only one of many capital sentences handed down by the beijing regime in the long history of chinese police repression against the tibetan internal movement. one of many, too many, ugly stories of common, ordinary, everyday human rights violations. however, that was not the case. tenzin deleg rinpoche is an emblem: he's a senior official of the litang county in kardze, arrested in 2002 right after a bombing in chengdu. the procedures followed during the trial are clearly far from international standards and the stay of execution is due to expire in two weeks. tenzin is a buddhist monk who is very popular among tibetans for his unwavering loyalty to the dalai lama, openly professed on many occasions, and for always refusing to recognize the panchen lama chosen by beijing in '95. a symbol that china wants to erase and destroy. europe must also make a strong demand at the forthcoming bilateral summit for the death sentence against tenzin to be quashed and, more generally, for a moratorium on executions. we are raising our voices, commissioner figel, to prevent yet another bloody, unjust, bloody blow to tibet and the tibetan people.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the italian socialist party. the peaceful orange revolution in kiev has much in common with the "roses revolution" which brought president saakashvili to power in georgia exactly one year ago, after he was democratically elected by a large majority in january 2004. saakashvili, whom i had the opportunity to meet a few days ago in tbilisi, is leading georgia on a path of renewal, growth and development in a pluralistic and healthy democratic context. but even then, in november 2003, the people's verdict was humiliated by the deception of former president eduard shevarnadze, who was ousted in a mass uprising that happened without bloodshed. today history is repeating itself and, as all international observers, including european ones, have confirmed, the popular opinion of ukraine is blatantly corrupted and distorted by blatant and blatant irregularities. today the ukrainian parliament, the rada, passed a resolution of no confidence in president yanukovych. this act, which is not legally binding in itself, has great symbolic and political value and confirms the success of the popular pressure of these days. let us not allow europe to be deaf and dumb about this. europe must make its voice heard in this geographical area so close to our borders, avoiding the escalation of tension which could lead to civil war or an escalation of violence, and finally giving a voice to the many young citizens who, proudly and courageously waving an orange flag or a georgian flag, are calling for and hoping for a future of peace, justice, legality, democracy and freedom, a new and different page in history. let a cry of solidarity be heard in this parliament for the protesters in kiev: today we are all ukrainians.
mr president, i thank the council for reminding us that the european union has no candidate in the elections in ukraine, that our responsibility is to contribute to democratic elections and that we must encourage a peaceful and political solution to the institutional conflict in ukraine. we demand that the vote be repeated and we express our solidarity with all ukrainians, with the entire ukrainian people. we are not here to support either yushenko or yanukovich, who were, moreover, both heads of the ukrainian government; we are not here to encourage the partition of ukraine into east and west, but to ensure the territorial integrity of this country. i find this contrast between good and bad a little bit bit too much. who has the right to say that the good and the democrats are the students of kiev and the bad are the miners who came to protest in kiev? we need to give a non-simplistic reading of what is happening in ukraine. ukraine is a country, unfortunately, already geographically divided, where the russian population represents 33% of the total population. faced with these figures - which are similar to those we have in iraq, where the sunni population represents 33% of the entire iraqi population - we need a political solution, which tries to keep the two parties together and which allows the president who will be elected - and we demand that he be elected in a democratic election - to be the president of the whole country. the risk today is not only that of division, mr president, but that of civil war. i have the feeling that the spirit of yalta is dangerously alive in this parliament and that the only objective is to bring all of ukraine, or part of it, into the sphere of western influence. i don't agree with that. the strength and responsibility of the european union is not to fight for the interests of the west but to fight for the interests of democracy and to contribute to the fact that the president of ukraine is really the president of the entire ukrainian people.
mr. president, i'm going against the grain because i don't think there's just one revolution in ukraine: the last stage of the demolition of russia is also being consummated, because russia was born in kiev. as in russia, so in ukraine, oligarchic gangs have seized power and produced a criminal state, with the blessing of the international monetary fund. nobody likes what's happening in moscow, but hundreds of millions of dollars have been poured into the west to take georgia, belarus and ukraine out of russian influence. this is the truth, and the ideals of freedom and democracy have little to do with it: 49 million ukrainians are victims of this situation. yushenko and timoshenko are no more champions of democracy than yanukovich is: both of them are sons of kuchma. it is clear that putin's russia wants to put some pieces of the great russia back together, and this has no less legitimacy than those who want to bring ukraine to the west. the question is whether this is done with or against the will of the peoples concerned. keeping all the ukrainians inside a new galicia will be very difficult and can get bloody. yanukovich has proposed a compromise that at least allows us to take time to avoid confrontation. yushenko turned it down. it is clear that putin's strategic blueprint is falling apart without ukraine and it is clear that putin will not give it up easily. some people may think that they are forcing it, and then we must think about the consequences, which will be serious for the future of relations between russia and europe. i believe that europe should not be drawn into this adventure.
mr president, in this crucial debate, i believe that four points must be given priority: 1) the financial perspective must be converted to the lisbon parameters and objectives: the chapter on representativeness is the most important innovation introduced by the commission proposal and should be strongly supported by parliament. 2) the financing of the agricultural policy no longer reflects the new needs of the european union, although the commission was not able to depart from the guidelines laid down by the council on this point; (3) it is important to provide for a transitional phase in order not to penalise those regions which, because of the so-called statistical effect, will no longer be able to benefit from the support provided for their development under the european structural funds, as will be the case for some regions in southern italy; 4) we believe that the question of reforming the system of member states' contributions to the union budget should not be postponed indefinitely. in conclusion, we welcome the prodi package, particularly because of the new philosophy on which it is based, which is to build a competitive and growing union, and in order to achieve all the objectives set, the ceiling for resources, in our view, cannot be reduced below 1.27%.
the commission. i would like to return briefly to a few points. first of all, i would like to emphasize once again that i do not consider this summit to have been a failure, but rather a significant step forward. the union has insisted - i have already said this - on quality and on the fact that we can really put together a package so that we can really get our concerns, our values, which are of course very important to us, through. the big question is, how do you deal with difficult problems? we asked ourselves this tactical question back in 2004 and said: it is important to set clear priorities, to be open, to address all problems, to maintain common positions and we succeeded this time, that was important and good. the commission has attached particular importance to this. i'm glad everyone else was here. it is about seeing mutual interests, but caution about the link, and values, not just interests, must serve as a basis. an example of success is that we have reached an agreement bilaterally in the wto negotiations on passenger transport to and from kaliningrad. as i have already said, we have set up two subcommittees. i think it's important that it was accepted by russia. and we have great challenges ahead of us: migration, visa issues, return, cooperation in border areas. i would like to reply to mr staes because i did not do so before, because of course a lot of things happened at this summit. i can tell you that commission president barroso made it clear to the russian delegation that europe, the commission and the eu as a whole are of course in favour of a political solution in chechnya.
i thank the commissioner and inform the house that i have received two motions for resolutions at the end of the debate. for technical reasons, however, these motions for resolutions cannot be put to the vote at this part-session.
i shall open the floor to speakers who so request, and as you know, they are limited to one minute.
the presidency has not received any further requests for intervention from members of parliament. i therefore declare the debate closed.
the next item is the commission statement on world aids day.
on behalf of the group. the scenario that has been illustrated here is not something that depends solely on a natural catastrophe but represents the dramatic synthesis between the aggressiveness of a virus and the unbridled pursuit of economic profit by a powerful few such as pharmaceutical multinationals. while 95% of the world's hiv-positive people are currently unable to access treatment, the situation is set to deteriorate further from 1 january 2005, when the derogation from article 31 of the trips agreement will end. from that point on, india, with its one billion people and other developing countries, will no longer be able to produce the drugs. already now those who produce them cannot sell them to other developing countries and african countries. it is therefore necessary that, beyond words and declarations of principle, the european union should first of all endeavour to obtain a further derogation from the trips agreement, pending its complete amendment. not only that: the european union must oppose the us practice of blackmailing developing countries in bilateral agreements to prevent them from exercising the right, laid down in the doha declarations, to use or import generic medicines. we must support the global fund for aids by increasing the funds allocated, and i propose that the european union at least raise the figure to one billion euros and that everyone, including italy, honour the commitments that have been made. according to fortune, the average salary of the top nine pharmaceutical executives in the world is $42 million a year. in the face of this, tens of millions of people die without treatment. in the face of these injustices, all forms of moralism must be overcome. we have to remember that prophylaxis is something useful: a medical device that should be given away absolutely free of charge. it's one of the tools we need to beat the virus.
the unaids report on the evolution of the epidemic was even more distressing this year than in the past: the projections for sub-saharan africa and its survival in the new century are dire. this tragedy is added to other equally serious human tragedies, such as the exploitation of adult and child prostitution, drug addiction, poor sanitation, the breakdown of families and the increase in young orphans, as well as infant mortality, which reaches impressive figures: 500,000 children die every year worldwide, which means 1,300 children a day from aids. that is why it is important today for the european parliament, united without distinction of party or nationality, to make a strong appeal to all the member states of the european union, starting with my own country - italy - not to throw away the efforts made so far and to continue to support the action of the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. let us avoid reductionist thinking in the fight against aids, not forgetting that this virus is not only sexually transmitted but that there are many other causes of its spread: the infected syringe, breast-feeding and lack of adequate medical monitoring. let us not forget that the condom is merely a means of containment - useful, of course, but of containment - and not of prevention of the virus. if we really want to fight this disease, we need to address it at its social, economic and ethical roots, by raising the standards of well-being, prevention and treatment in the countries most affected.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the issues raised and the views expressed during this debate. i must say that it is a real pleasure and encouragement to hear that the honourable members not only share my deep concern about the issue of hiv/aids but also my firm conviction that we must contribute fully and effectively to alleviating the terrible suffering caused by this epidemic, both in the rest of the world and in the european union. we must be particularly aware of the seriousness of this problem today. but let me comment on some of the issues raised by the honourable members. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it has already been mentioned by the honourable members, it is no longer a matter which concerns only vulnerable groups. it is something that concerns each of us, and that is why the way it is currently spreading within families, has affected families, children, not only in the third world but also in the european union itself. i would like to assure you that the whole european commission, all our colleagues, are aware of this matter. we share the same concerns and have set the same objectives, and i want to assure you that there will be full coordination with all colleagues in combating this problem, in drawing up and implementing programmes in this direction. as regards research, i would like to point out that, in the case of the vaccine, hiv vaccine research is a priority under the sixth framework programme for research and development and it can be expected that up to eur 130 million will be allocated to hiv vaccine research. as regards medicines, i would like to remind you that i fully agree that there should be access to cheap medicines for all those who have a problem with this disease, particularly, of course, for poor countries and for poor groups of the population who cannot afford these high treatment costs. i would also like to remind you that the commission has recently - and it is also mentioned in your resolution - adopted a proposal for compulsory licensing of medicines for export to countries in need. this point is now at the stage of co-decision and i would hope that, judging from other cases in the past on very sensitive issues, there will be speed and diligence to complete this proposal as soon as possible and that within this proposal there will be the possibility of accessing precisely the cheap medicines. there is a great need - and i repeat this - to lift the social stigma. one of the big problems we face today in terms of the spread of this disease is that because of this pressure, many people are infected or have been infected with the virus and they don't even know it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to carcinogens at work, and on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this scourge, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am glad and i would like to thank parliament and the european commission for the active interest we are seeing and we want to believe that in this fight we will be close allies in a meaningful way so that there is really an effective response to this problem. there is no room for complacency, we must continue with the same intense effort, show the same zeal to prevent and stop the spread of this disease but, at the same time, contribute to the relief of those who are already infected, as well as to their treatment. i look forward to a future constructive dialogue between the commission and parliament in pursuit of our common objectives.
at the end of the debate i received five motions for resolutions. i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the vote will take place tomorrow. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report (a6-0028/2004) by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation on the security features and biometric elements of passports for citizens of the union.
the internet represents a universe of freedom without boundaries, but, being without rules governing its use, it can also represent a universe of infinite freedom of abuse, conditioning and violation. i have been conducting political action in the european parliament for years, presenting dozens of motions for resolutions and questions, press releases and statements in order to establish democratic rules, that is to say rules and laws that protect the citizen and that affect those who use the network for criminal purposes. this year i succeeded in getting the daphne programme to include in its objectives the request to 'study the possibility of creating filters to prohibit the dissemination of child pornography on the internet'. now, finally, the council and the european parliament have decided to set up a new programme to promote safer use of the internet. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national authorities responsible for the protection of the internet. that is why i recall that in italy i initiated a pilot case against a website which disseminates false information about members of the european parliament and about europe. there is still no case law on this subject, that is to say, it is not known how to prevent a national of one member state from spreading false information about a national of another member state. freedom, to be such, needs rules!
on behalf of the group. mr president, while i have appreciated in part what the commissioner has said in the house, i think that the various points should be clarified. the first issue, as regards colombia, is the policy launched by president uribe. just a few months ago, a leading american weekly, newsweek, put the colombian president's photograph on its front page, writing that in 1991, according to the us department of defense, president alvaro uribe, then not yet president, had links with the medellin drug cartel and was a friend of pablo escobar. as if that were not enough, president uribe's policy in recent years has been to favour the paramilitary forces exclusively, so much so that a few months ago he invited the leaders of the paramilitary troops to parliament, to show that for him there is only one interlocutor in this war. even ingrid betancourt's relatives have said that it is president uribe who is opposed to the humanitarian exchange. in recent years, the national security policy has resulted in mass and arbitrary detentions, the criminalization of social conflict, massacres of trade unionists and violations of human rights. we believe that the european union cannot declare itself neutral in this context but must instead promote the search for a political solution to the conflict and the cessation of military hostilities, which is what president uribe is promoting at this stage. we must work to ensure that the london declaration of july 2003, the recommendation of the united nations high commissioner for human rights of march 1994 are respected: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. i think that the commission and the council should pay more attention to this aspect.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her report, although i think we must have the courage to put forward some figures which tell us what is really happening in colombia. i am particularly concerned about my colleague salafranca, who accuses those who do not recognise the progress made in the quality and respect of human rights in colombia in recent years of being in bad faith. i would like to recall what amnesty international wrote just a few months ago, pointing out that colombia is the country where trade unionists are at greater risk than anywhere else in the world: they've killed 500 in the last four years. the high commissioner for refugees reminds us that there are three million internally displaced persons in the country and that 300,000 people have been forced to flee abroad. in this war of all against all - i repeat: all against all - there is responsibility on the part of all, of course, on the part of the guerrilla groups but also on the part of the armed forces, which in collaboration with the paramilitary groups - i always speak of what we are told by the international human rights agencies - are directly involved in the killings, torture and intimidation of human rights defenders, trade unionists, leaders of local communities, who are hastily labelled as guerrillas or sympathizers. in this situation the government's strategy seems dangerously short-sighted. the only agreement reached was with the paramilitaries: the "forgive and forget" agreement. new paramilitary groups have been created: 150,000 peasant soldiers who are directly under the control of the army and the police. we believe that we need to be less shortsighted in dealing with the problem of colombia and that we should also consider what has happened in recent years with plan colombia: $500,000 went straight into the pockets of many american contractors. this plan colombia has been a great deal, mr. president, for many american companies, much less for colombia which continues to be torn apart by repression and war. i would like to conclude by asking the commissioner, this parliament and our institutions to be very attentive and calm in their support for the peace process in colombia, which requires the involvement of all the parties to the conflict in this process and in these negotiations. all sides, not just the paramilitaries.
in writing. the eu is the largest donor in the world. global aid for aids has tripled in the last three years. yet the figures in the latest who report are terrifying, and poverty is growing. greater financial commitment is useful, but it is not enough. the quality and effectiveness of aid is what is most in question. the commission should clearly define its priorities for action in the future, so that development resources are not diverted to other policies of a different nature, such as security or conflict resolution. we need medicines, prevention, and information. support for those groups most affected by the infection: children without parents to teach them, old men without children to support them. research in the common interest, not purely commercial. and it fights against all kinds of prejudices, and against that kind of morality that stands in the way of prevention. aids is not a distant reality. 2004 saw an impressive increase in cases in russia and ukraine, our new neighbours. the social discomfort caused by the decline in the working population generates poverty, tension, and conflict. it is therefore in our own interest, and in the name of the stability which our union represents, that this fight should be waged.
on behalf of the group. mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to make it clear that we are strongly in favour of romania's accession to the european union. however, we are against this accession being rushed through and without fully respecting the criteria set. this would be bad both for the credibility of the european union - particularly as other enlargements are being prepared - and for all those in romania who are fighting for the rule of law and against corruption, as well as for the solution of other serious problems, which have recently been highlighted by the commission. that is why, mr president, we have asked for this vote to be postponed and for a dialogue to be established with the newly elected members in romania, so as to give credibility to what, by a completely sterile automatic procedure, would not be credible.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i am putting this proposal to you on behalf of the socialist group and i believe that there are no objections from the other groups. my proposal concerns the very serious situation in cambodia where children who had been released by the authorities and entrusted to an ngo have been kidnapped again by the prostitution racket, while the staff of the ngo in question have been threatened with death. the situation is very serious indeed. we have already negotiated the urgencies and i think all the groups agree that zimbabwe, congo and bhopal should remain on the agenda. we do not intend to oppose these issues, but we are simply asking to be able to discuss the cambodian question in the context of the debate on the preparation of the european council, which will take place on wednesday, in order to raise the awareness of the council and the commission. we think that this would be a duty, also in view of the gravity of the facts. these children have been put back into the prostitution circuit which, as is well known, caters to a european clientele. we therefore believe that it would be a very sensitive matter to deal with this subject in the european council debate and i believe that there are no objections from the other groups.
mr president, i too agree with you on this point. however, i would ask you, if you decide to send a letter to the cambodian authorities, to highlight this particular incident, but also to refer to the overall situation. as is well known, the king of cambodia has resigned in protest against the general political situation, and members of the sam raisi party and the opposition are threatened with death and expulsion from parliament. i therefore fully support your initiative to send a letter, in which i invite you to express our deepest concern about the global situation of the rule of law and human rights, starting from this incident.
mr president, in these days there was to be an important hearing on a case relating to events dating back to 1944 and concerning the situation of italian military internees and civilians. the federal republic of germany, instead of finally adopting a positive attitude towards this legitimate demand for moral rather than material compensation, opposes a delaying procedural attitude, even bringing the italian republic to trial. i call for an intervention on this situation to put an end to this page, which represents an open wound of the second world war.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the majority of the liberal group supports the eurlings report because, beyond a number of compromises to which i shall return, it essentially calls on governments to open negotiations without undue delay and makes it clear that the aim of the negotiations is full membership of turkey in the european union. many of us would certainly have preferred a clearer and, in some ways, less tortuous relationship. we have said too often, and we have said it again and again to turkey, that the negotiations are open-ended in themselves and that the result is not certain. of course, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say that we want permanent safeguards for the free movement of persons, because that would be a breach of the treaty, irrespective of who is involved. this is a legal breach of the treaty, whether the european commission likes it or not. however, this is a compromise which i believe we must uphold. ladies and gentlemen, let me say that today it is not so much about turkey as about europe. it is a question of whether this europe is a reliable partner in international relations. the question is whether, after more than 40 years, the word given still counts. it is also a question of understanding, mr poettering, what our identity is. i believe that the identity of the european project is that it is a political project, not a geographical or religious one. (applause) i would like to thank i also believe that our identity does not lie so much in our past and our roots, which some would even call christian or catholic, as in our present and, above all, in our future. our past has not only seen splendor, but also war and blood. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our identity is represented by these fifty years in which we have tried, and somehow succeeded, to achieve the rule of law, the separation of powers, the secularism of institutions and the defence of civil and political rights as an essential element of human development. this is our identity and this is the project that the turkish people and government are asking to be part of. i think that 's the stakes . we must either choose a europe which is confident in itself, capable of governing the problems and challenges it faces - ranging from difficult relations with the islamic world, to immigration, to the persistent differences - a europe which, not out of frivolity or naivety, but out of deep political awareness, opens these negotiations, or we must choose a europe which, perhaps in honour of its catholic-christian identity, shuts itself off and thinks that it can best defend the well-being we have achieved by closing itself off in the face of the challenges it faces. ladies and gentlemen, this is what is at stake. that is the europe we are talking about and that is what we must discuss. i believe that this is the europe worth believing in, this is the europe worth fighting for, this is the europe that will somehow have dignity for our fellow citizens and in the international sphere. i believe that any other distortion and any other ambiguity is not up to the standards of our present, our future and, above all, of what we have built up so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party, which is in favour of the eurlings report and therefore of the opening of negotiations with turkey. turkey's accession would confirm the nature of the union as an open and tolerant society, which draws strength from its diversity and is held together by the shared values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. moreover, by providing an alternative model to the closed and sectarian society advocated by radical islamists, europe could play an invaluable role in future relations between the west and the islamic world. more generally, there is no doubt that at a time when europe is committed to taking on greater responsibilities in world politics, turkey's accession would considerably strengthen the union's capacity to become a major player on the international political scene, especially in hot spots such as the middle east, the black sea basin, the south caucasus and central asia. in addition, as confirmed by the oecd, turkey's accession could add value to europe's economic weight in the world, thanks to its vast geographical size, its vast natural resources and its young and highly skilled workforce. the opening of accession negotiations will be both a starting and a finishing point. it will be a turning point, since turkey's first application to join the then european economic community dates back to 1959. the country has modernized in recent years, achieving important results through far-reaching reforms and innovations, especially in the last two years. however, the opening of negotiations will also be a starting point, since the negotiations, which may begin as soon as turkey meets the political criteria of copenhagen, will have a duration and an outcome which will depend on progress made, particularly with regard to the economy and the acquis communautaire. the european union and turkey therefore appear to be united by a major challenge to jointly lay the foundations for the construction of the europe of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, should we open negotiations with turkey? the answer to this question is neither simple nor obvious. on the one hand, there is the legitimate expectation of turkey to join the european union. turkey's efforts to bring its legislation and institutions closer to european standards, its stubborn political will and its strong conviction that it is an active player in the process of european enlargement, cannot be ignored or underestimated. however, as europeans, we have a duty not to make concessions, because democracy cannot afford it, nor can it sell off values, human rights or civil liberties. on these latter issues, much remains to be done in turkey, particularly with regard to respect for women and children, the protection of minorities and the abolition of torture and the death penalty. finally, there are two knots to be untied, two inescapable premises for turkey: the european union is committed to the restoration of normal relations with armenia, by reopening the borders, and with cyprus. in the latter case, the withdrawal of troops is a preliminary step to accession, as is the recognition of the cypriot state. it is unacceptable that turkey, at the time of its application for membership of the european union, not only does not recognise a member state such as cyprus but also maintains thousands of soldiers on cypriot soil. turkey will therefore have to face a long process which necessarily excludes a priori accession. however, realistically we cannot close the door on a muslim country with secular institutions, which is seeking a european path of modernisation and development. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the european parliament will send a clear message to the council on 17 december, namely that it should open negotiations with turkey with a view to accession. this is the right and consistent response to the great progress made by this country, as the commission's rigorous and thorough report shows. of course, the opening of negotiations will involve long delays and further profound changes, both on the part of turkey and the european union itself. at the moment, this seems to me to be the only viable option. i hear talk of special partnerships which should replace the prospect of accession in the event that turkey is unable to absorb the acquis communautaire. opening negotiations does not automatically guarantee membership of the union, but talking about other prospects right now gives our interlocutors a reasonable suspicion of the true intentions of the twenty-five. let us therefore try to be clear and transparent and give this country a real chance. the political will of the present and future leaders, and above all of the turkish people, will determine the prospects for our relations. we do not give an alibi to the opponents of democracy and secularism in that country, because we may bitterly regret it. i would like to say to mr camre that my country has had honour killing and the abolition of the crime of rape by marriage in its legislation, but i would never have dreamed of saying that this was due to catholic culture. i therefore invite you to reflect on this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the council will set a precise date for the opening of negotiations, in the knowledge that from that date a long process will begin, the outcome of which will depend very much on the further changes that will be brought about in turkey during that period. we must reject all forms of racism by those who seek to turn religion into an instrument of discrimination. the coexistence of religions and cultures is the only future for a democratic and multiethnic europe. the negotiations with turkey must focus on the solution of the cyprus problem, full respect for human rights, political recognition of the conflict in kurdistan, and a commitment to a peaceful solution and an immediate, of course bilateral, cessation of hostilities. it is precisely the kurdish democratic organizations and human rights associations in turkey, which still suffer daily or are witnesses to profound injustices, that are asking us to open negotiations so that they can involve the whole of europe in their fight for democracy and respect for human rights. the amendments to the constitution and the penal code that have been made so far are undoubtedly insufficient. much remains to be done, such as reducing the power of the army, which must be subordinated to the role of the executive and legislative branches, amending the electoral law and allowing the use of the kurdish language in official acts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that turkey should not join the european union because turkey is not in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eurlings report is a rarity in this house. it is the rare record of violations of human rights, minority rights, international rights in a state. the question of torture, religious freedom, women's rights, the constitution, the question of the occupation of part of the european union or of a member country of the european union, the question of the armenians, freedom of expression, are among the most important. the wrong consequence of this list of violations is, in my view, the opening of negotiations, as many colleagues have said. the negotiations with slovakia were interrupted a few years ago and today compliance with the copenhagen criteria is an option for the future without a clear position being taken. the democratization efforts of turkey must be supported, but this certainly does not require membership of the european union, it requires a policy of good neighbourliness, it requires a policy of good partnership. two thirds of the european population are against the opening of accession negotiations and against turkey's accession to the european union. in some countries, such as germany, france and austria, over 70% are against it. the question arises as to why the commission, many members, why the council, why many countries of the council are pursuing a policy which is contrary to the clearly defined interests and wishes of the people. this is politically incomprehensible and extremely shortsighted, because it puts the opinion and the prospects of the european union in great difficulty. i am in favour of a privileged partnership and not of turkey's membership of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today in this house, and what we have been discussing for years in the european parliament in official meetings and in private discussions, is a difficult and complex problem. we in forza italia have weighed the pros and cons and have come to the firm and convincing conclusion that it is useful and essential to start accession negotiations. to refuse them would be to frustrate turkey's efforts to modernize and develop a democratic regime, to hand it over to the confusion and despotism of unstable regions such as the middle east and the caucasus, and to send a negative signal to the whole of the moderate islamic world, reinforcing the intransigence of the fundamentalists and empowering those who preach the clash of civilizations. today we have an opportunity to bridge the gap between islam and the west, thanks to a country that has roots in both the history of christianity and islam. by opening the doors of the european union to turkey, we could send a strong signal to those muslim countries which have embarked, despite great difficulties, on the road to democracy and freedom, to convince them that this is the right way, a signal that the european union does not consider islam and democracy to be incompatible. i would remind those who are sceptical and opposed to turkey that by opening negotiations with turkey we will greatly increase our security against terrorism, which is a threat we will have to face for many years to come. it is for these reasons that we shall vote in favour of mr eurlings' report, to which we express our sincere congratulations for the enormous work carried out in conditions of particular difficulty and for having been able to find useful compromises between the very different tendencies which animate this parliament.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that during today's debate many colleagues from various political groups, some of them unknown, have spoken at length about sustainability. i think this is important, because i am sure that this issue will become a real priority for the commission as well. at a time when many citizens are increasingly distrustful of the european project, the first strategic objective of the new commission and all the other community institutions should be to return to being visibly effective in improving the quality of life of citizens, to become a positive instrument for democratic growth inside and outside the european union and to transform the union into an area of technological innovation geared to ecological and social sustainability. we believe that three commitments are necessary to this end. the first commitment concerns consistency with the objectives set and the ability to enforce them. we therefore strongly urge the commission to be more determined to take into account the key commitments of the european union, such as sustainability, social cohesion and gender equality in all its policy proposals, and to make a concrete commitment to re-establish a balance between the three pillars of the lisbon agenda - economic, social and environmental - in order to avoid promoting rigid economic objectives at the expense of the quality of life of our citizens individually. we call on the commission to put forward bold proposals for a coordinated effort to revive investment in environmental technologies and employment measures. as regards competitiveness, we would like the indicators to be extended to include qualitative, social and environmental indicators such as income distribution, poverty and energy efficiency. we believe that consistency is also measured by the ability to enforce the commitments made. we know that many countries are not in line with the objectives of the kyoto protocol and we therefore believe that the ways in which the commission will help these countries to comply with the kyoto protocol will be an important element of consistency. in this connection, we would like to revive our old proposal for a climate stability pact, which provides for a system of joint management of the kyoto commitments that is not only repressive but also positive. the second commitment we must absolutely reassess is the courage to reject easy conformity which ignores the european union's responsibility in the world and makes it a reference point and a model for those who, in the rest of the world, are fighting for the defence of human rights and freedom. this is a very important point for us. we cannot, for reasons of trade and economy, refrain from expressing our views on human rights in china and russia and the war in chechnya. we shall shortly be discussing the dayton agreements, which are celebrating their tenth anniversary. we must also act on this point and we hope that the commission will be able to take positive initiatives. the third and final commitment concerns the capacity to represent the interests of the european union as such, not being overly influenced by the balance of power between individual states and the council in general, and finding genuine alliances between those in the european parliament, in the associative world and in the productive world who share the idea that the european union is much more than the sum of the union's governments. we therefore call on the barroso commission to reconsider and possibly withdraw the bolkestein directive, to defend reach with its teeth and nails, to propose a new directive on services of general interest, to abandon or at least reconsider the policy of the previous commission on gmos and to open the way to legal immigration with courage and concrete action. mr president, i would like to conclude by mentioning at least four fundamental points of the interinstitutional agreement which we would like to conclude with you. the first is certainly the code of conduct for commissioners and a serious approach to the issue of conflict of interest. the second concerns the question of impact assessment. the evaluation of new laws cannot be arbitrary and must be based on uniformly applied criteria. the european parliament is running behind on this point. we know that businesses and the economy in general are much more active. we must encourage the commission and parliament to evaluate the laws that are passed also in terms of sustainability and social impact. the third point concerns the reopening of the access to documents dossier. we are extremely dissatisfied with the present situation and we sincerely hope that in the coming years we will be able to achieve positive results. the fourth and final point concerns a very complex subject, which we shall certainly have occasion to discuss, namely the commission's attitude to violations of community law by member states. we are very concerned about the accumulated delays and the fact that the commission seems to have practically abandoned this priority, especially in the environmental field. we really hope that in the future the commission will reconsider this priority, because the credibility of the european union also depends on its ability to enforce the law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the new commission should also have as one of its priorities the initiation of a constructive debate on the stability pact and its possible reform. let's clear the air of any misunderstandings. no one thinks, and the commissioner responsible has done well to emphasize this strongly, that he can imagine a reform to circumvent the maastricht criteria. the strict observance of the treaty and the commitment to the gradual reduction of debt remain the necessary objectives of an economically credible and solid europe. however, i think we can think about the operational criteria on the basis of which the debt reduction objective can be achieved, and think not so much of reform as of a transformation of the pact, which can reconcile budgetary rigor and flexibility in order to boost growth, development and employment and also, finally, the lisbon strategy. the italian government has made its own reflection which has not gone unheard. in the face of strong concern about the overvaluation of the euro and the loss of europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis the us and emerging countries, the proposal could be to deduct from the calculation of state budgets investments in infrastructure and research. in other words, it is a question of introducing the golden rule to achieve the objective of fiscal consolidation without jeopardizing the recovery. the pact, in conclusion, can no longer be content with being just a pact for stability, and unfortunately also a pact for economic stagnation, but must become a pact for competitiveness, for structural reforms and above all a pact to guarantee a future for our young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, with the lisbon strategy, among other things, europe has set itself the ambitious goal of becoming the most advanced knowledge society in the world. however, such an objective cannot be achieved without a revival of basic research and innovation, which in turn requires strengthening european material capacities, infrastructures and centres of excellence and aiming at improving human capital, with the entry of thousands of young researchers. this change of course requires an increase in investment in research of up to 3%, both at the level of individual member states and the european union as a whole. the prodi commission's proposal was for a spending ceiling of 1.24% of gross national income, but some important countries in the union have already publicly set the ceiling at 1%. such a severe reduction in community financial resources is likely to have a real impact on many of the main policies, including cohesion policy, rural development and the financing of training and research programmes, with which development policies are increasingly closely linked. with such a small budget it would be very foolish to continue talking about the revival of research in europe and more advanced societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on other occasions i have already had the opportunity to point out that a certain method of constructing europe has now reached a point of very severe social and political crisis. however, while the updating of the lisbon strategy is being discussed, concrete choices are being made which may indicate a certain direction. i would like to mention two specific examples. the first example concerns a proposal for a directive, the so-called bolkestein directive, which we believe should be rejected. this is a veritable sum of negative and at the same time messy content, which would lead to a veritable jungle where the fundamental rights of workers and citizens are simultaneously violated and the quality of services is therefore rightly opposed by the trade unions and the wider social forces, and we call for their withdrawal. the second example concerns the reach proposal, which is useful for innovating our chemical industry in terms of quality and health, and we are calling for its rapid adoption. these are two concrete choices that point to two different ideas of europe.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report (a6-0068/2004) by mr salvador garriga polledo and mrs anne elisabet jensen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2005, as amended by the council (all sections) [11445/2004 c6-0123/2004 2004/2001 budget) 2004/2002 budget) and on letters of amendment nos 1, 2 and 3/2005 [15180/2004 c6-0216/2004, 15181/2004 c6-0217/2004, 15182/2004 c6-0218/2004] to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2005 section i, european parliament section ii, council section iii, commission section iv, court of justice section v, court of auditors section vi, economic and social committee section vii, committee of the regions section viii (a), european data protection agency section viii-b, european data protection agency section viii-a) and on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the council on budgetary discipline in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2005 (com (2004) 640 final) -c6 final)
council. mr president, i am pleased that our two institutions reached a global agreement on the budget of the union for next year during the conciliation meeting on 25 november. following your deliberations today, allow me to make a few remarks in this context. as you know, the council had not initially foreseen the use of the flexibility instrument. in our global compromise the council had to accept its use for a substantial amount – eur 185 million – and this was not greeted with enthusiasm by all member states. because of budgetary discipline, the council is of the opinion that choices have to be made, just as, at national level, one cannot simply add up all priorities and expect the bill to be paid. having said that, in preparation for the conciliation meeting, the council listened carefully to parliament's arguments. parliament made it clear from the start that it would not be able to finance its traditional priorities and its new priorities in headings 3 and 4, internal and external policies, under the existing ceilings. with the agreements on the use of the flexibility instrument in heading 3, parliament is in the position to restore the funding for the agencies. at the same time parliament has secured sufficient funding for its priorities. as regards the use of the flexibility instrument in heading 4, i can agree with the draftsman of the opinion of parliament's committee on foreign affairs that the outcome can be seen as quite positive for parliament. i also want to mention the peace process in northern ireland. i am pleased that we were able to agree on the financing of the peace ii programme for 2005-06. we are making a valuable contribution to a long-term solution. finally, the parliament's delegation made it possible to reach agreement by moderating the demands on payment appropriations. we have a balanced result, which the commission says is workable. i look forward to the signing ceremony on thursday.
commission. mr president, i am very pleased to speak to you today, the first encounter for the new commission in this very important exercise, starting on 22 november, which directly concerns the negotiations on the 2005 budget: a very important issue for parliament and for europe. after fairly tough negotiations on 25 november, when both branches of the budgetary authority showed skill and flexibility, we reached a final agreement on a tight budget for 2005. parliament's solidarity and determination allowed it to achieve all the important goals it had set itself. the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandowski; the budget rapporteur, mr garriga polledo; mrs jensen, the rapporteur on the flexibility instrument; mr böge, and other members of the committee on budgets who participated very closely in all-day and all-night negotiations deserve thanks from all of us for the hard-won results. the president-in-office of the council, mr nicolaï, also deserves our praise for having encouraged member states to accept the agreement: not an easy task. in the final agreement there will, of course, be some risk that not all compulsory expenditure is covered in what was decided in the package. according to updated estimates from the committee on agriculture, for example, some expenditure was ignored by the council: extra calls for payments for the structural funds or actions during the year could be necessary. but i am satisfied that we agreed a joint declaration on payment appropriations for structural actions that can allow a rapid single-reading decision on a possible amending budget for extra payments if the commission identifies the need in mid-2005. i call on both budgetary authorities to react quickly if there appears to be a need to propose this. the same will also apply to compulsory expenditure on agriculture. we also want to emphasise that, as mentioned before, for the first time the flexibility instrument is being used above the ceilings in three headings and we agreed to use the total amount of eur 185 million for this instrument. i am not going to emphasise the details of the overall package, which has been very well described, or the main agreements we reached. i would like to draw attention to what is important for us and is always important for parliament, namely improving delivery. each year parliament seeks to use the budget process to support the commission's efforts to improve delivery, which we are happy to accept. the commission's letter on implementability has the same intent. we have fulfilled the request made at first reading and you consequently released many of the reserves. i thank you for that. parliament is concerned about the way non-state actors and international organisations are using european union funds. the commission will produce a report by april 2005 examining these issues. you have maintained a reserve for the financing of 50 new posts from the several hundred requested. i hope to introduce a transfer request in january to lift the reserve on these posts, since i believe the conditions have been fulfilled. you ask for the rules to be changed on the financial regulation. i undertake that the commission will bring forward proposals to modify the financial regulation by spring 2005, and the commission has already introduced proposals to modify the implementing rules. the council is ready to give its opinion. we await parliament's views. i will look again at your request for support for events and pilot actions. not all of them are feasible, but the new political situation may provide new openings and i will communicate my thoughts on that to you in january. the commission thanks you once again for your fair and firm negotiations and for your willingness to seek a compromise. i congratulate you all on the great success that you have achieved. i take this opportunity to wish you the compliments of the season and look forward to the final vote on thursday.
i thank the commissioner and take this opportunity to wish her a very good day at work in the commission.
i would like to begin by thanking mr salafranca, who i would like to apologize to for a slight error in the order of his speeches, which we have been able to correct with his help and that of mr lewandowski.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a difficult negotiation has ended with a worthy outcome. we should like to thank the rapporteur, mr garriga polledo, the rapporteur, mrs jensen, all the political groups and the new commissioner, who has given us a valuable hand and to whom i would like to return my best wishes. the agreement can satisfy parliament because it brings home many positive results. we have crossed a narrow threshold but we are now beyond the watershed, having secured the funding for reconstruction in iraq, the maintenance of traditional geopolitics, funding for smes, information and research and resources for agencies. in addition, the budget contains funds for structural resources and for pilot projects, some of which are very interesting, such as erasmus for apprentices, the pilot project on conflict prevention or the one on the reduction of small arms. we cannot say that we are satisfied with the way the chapter on payment appropriations has been closed. i know that it is not the fault of parliament or the commission, which has helped us and has gone as far as it could. however, the council's icy-marble firmness in defending the 1% is worthy of a better cause and does not promise anything good either for the negotiations on the financial perspective or for the next budget, in relation to which i hope, as my colleague catherine guy-quint has also hoped, that more ambitious and rewarding goals can be achieved. we're just over one percent. this is a signal that has been rightly given, because parliament will not accept financial perspectives which force the union to renounce its tasks and duties, which are enshrined in the treaties. the new member states are being encouraged to support the so-called rigorous front by the circulation of ideas and sometimes by some form of psychological terrorism. ladies and gentlemen, the discipline is to administer with transparency, efficiency and effectiveness, but it does not mean denying the government responses that european citizens expect. article 158 of the treaty states that the policy of economic and social cohesion is one of europe's main tasks. anyone who thinks of cutting budgets, reducing and concentrating the structural funds in only a few areas, renationalizing cohesion policy and depriving the lisbon strategy of the necessary resources, should know beforehand that he will meet with the strongest opposition from this parliament.
commission madam president, i would like to tell mr ebner that the 'television without frontiers' directive provides for the principle of separating television advertising and tele-purchasing from the rest of the programme by optical and acoustic means. the same directive states that underground advertising and tele-purchasing are prohibited. as i said in my answer to previous questions, the directive is under review. the public consultation held in 2003 gave the various parties concerned an opportunity to express their views. some operators are in favour of relaxing the advertising rule to take account of technological developments, for example to allow for the sharing of screens and the placing on the market of equipment which would enable viewers to avoid advertising messages. however, in 2003 there was a consensus that advertising should be clearly identified, in order to avoid misleading the public. the same consultation did not identify the development in europe of an advertising practice of product placement which would violate the provisions of the directive. this point was therefore clarified in the commission's 2003 interpretative communication on certain aspects of the provisions on television advertising. i am of course prepared to return to all these issues when i am considering a possible revision of the directive which i intend to present in 2005.
thank you, madam chairman. i am pleased that the commissioner has indicated that she will give priority to consumer protection in this case if there is any new consideration for 2005. the fact is that the practices that have been used so far are not really satisfactory and that there are practices that are not consistent with consumer protection and that need to be remedied.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report expresses in apodictic terms the pre-emptive rejection of any proposal for the establishment of so-called reception centres in the countries of final transit, which has been put forward by several parties. it is said that their creation would imply difficulties in meeting international human rights obligations, but i do not know what assumptions this is based on. i wonder if the rapporteur has already noted the lack of availability on the part of the leaders of these countries or on the part of the ngos, including european ones, operating in the countries of origin and transit of immigrants. i think that this prejudice is based solely on ideological reasons, since reception centres could certainly play a significant role in meeting both the need for proper controls and the need for humane treatment of migrants. in fact, the refusal to set up such centres leaves the situation unchanged, preventing the appropriate involvement of the transit countries in the management of the migration process. the centre which was recently set up in africa, thanks to the important intervention of my country in the tripoli agreements, has already succeeded, at least so far, in stopping the mediterranean crossings and the tragic shipwrecks of desperate people on the smugglers' carts. its implementation has thus made it possible to achieve a positive result in the fight against the illicit trafficking in human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as members of parliament we are sitting in this chamber representing the citizens of the 25 nations that make up the european union. the european parliament is the only institution in the union elected by universal suffrage. as the bearers of direct consent and popular mandate, we should be able to strip ourselves of the ideologies of the political forces to which we belong on certain issues. one of these issues should be immigration. history teaches us that the greatest misfortune for a human being is to be uprooted from his place of origin and that immigration arises for a myriad of reasons not all of which are voluntary. an advanced social system - and the union is a collection of advanced states - cannot exclude some aspects of this phenomenon a priori, preferring only the emotional part. the union must safeguard the fundamental principles on which its existence is based, but it must do so for the benefit of all, both its citizens and those of third countries. it must do so by means of a common policy, shared and sustained choices, not ineffective initiatives that isolate a few member states. if immigration policy is to be uniform, it must be accompanied by all its consequences, especially in an age like ours when there are serious concerns about internal security. it is important, among other things, that we do not exclude a priori the organization of an information and preparation system for the migration phenomenon in the countries of origin and transit, an organized and shared system which, when combined with economic aid and incentives in natural areas, could provide positive results for all. the present proposal does not address the problem in this way, nor in a concrete way, and therefore, without the approval of appropriate amendments, it is not acceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i can identify with the lambert report, because if there is an enemy that prevents europe from growing, it is fear. one way to combat this is to recognize who among those who come to us is worthy of our help. recently, 75 eritreans were arrested by the libyan authorities, subjected to long detention and inhuman treatment. they were then put on a plane to be flown back to their home country. in desperation, they hijacked the plane and forced it to land in sudan. the united nations high commissioner for refugees was able to interview as many as 60 of the 75 eritreans, since the others were imprisoned for the hijacking. all of the people interviewed had the right to asylum, but libya has no law recognizing this right, is not a signatory to the geneva convention, and does not ensure respect for human rights in prisons. on the other hand, countries like my own - italy - do not have a law on the right to asylum, so they reject migrants indiscriminately, without examining their applications and without a fair, fair and individual assessment. even legal immigrants are humiliated and forced to wait years for their residence permits to be renewed. it's clear that these people are considered an enemy at home to be used and discarded. it is europe that must examine asylum applications, while at the same time helping the maghreb countries to move forward on the path of respect for rights. we must ensure that europe, by using the highest standards for the assessment and protection of refugees, turns these flows into legal immigration, which is useful and possible. the european union must therefore create a single european refugee agency and european reception centres to process individual applications and provide legal and linguistic assistance. refugees will be our first allies in promoting economic, civil and democratic growth in their home countries, because the world will only be safer when it stops being so unfair.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union's anti-drug strategy, which is on the agenda for our debate, must be based exclusively on a scientific approach, an analysis of the real situation and the experience gained in recent years. on the contrary, the subject is too often, unfortunately, permeated by ideology, dogmatic approaches or emotions. the data available to us allows us to have a real approach. i refer in particular to the data provided to us by the european monitoring centre for drugs, which is based in lisbon. as you know, these data are not only of high scientific value but also of proven reliability. the 2004 lisbon monitoring centre report indicates that the situation regarding heroin deaths and heroin users in europe is broadly stable, but that there is no decrease in hiv infection, which is spreading in some new member states, that cocaine use is increasing in most member states, that cannabis is the most widely used substance, with more than 20% of european citizens having used or using it, and that ecstasy use is equal to, if not higher than, amphetamine use. this shows unequivocally that the strategies adopted so far have not had a positive effect. with regard to drug use in prisons, the observatory indicates that drug users are overrepresented in the prison environment, that inmates' drug use varies from 22% to 86%, depending on the prison population, the prison and the country, and that prisons are a high-risk environment for the spread of infectious diseases. as regards the criminalisation of drug use, the centre explains that in many countries the process of criminalising drug use has led to an increase in the use of these substances. i would point out to my swedish colleagues that the report of the observatory contains a specific reference to the situation in sweden, where it cites a study which shows that the repressive strategies implemented in that country have intensified the drug market and where it concludes that there is no precise evidence that the criminalisation of drug use has a deterrent effect on young people. finally, as regards drug trafficking, europol indicates that drug trafficking represents approximately 2 to 5 per cent of world gdp, which goes directly into the hands of the drug traffickers and the major criminal organizations on the planet. the u.s. drug enforcement administration estimates that afghanistan will export over five thousand tons of opium in 2005, 95 percent of which will go to europe. this shows that the action plan approved by the un in 1998 has not produced positive effects, also in view of the importance of drug trafficking for the financing of mafias and terrorism. a prominent prosecutor like d'ambrosio explained to us that in order to finance the madrid attack, al qaeda terrorists traded tritol for 250 kilograms of hashish. our report, which was approved by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is therefore motivated by the need to strengthen the fight against drug trafficking, the mafia and terrorism and to give priority to the protection of life and health. the question cannot be dealt with as a matter of public policy or as a matter of repression, but only as a social and economic issue. for these reasons, we have focused our report on the harm reduction strategy and substitution treatment in prisons, and on the need to apply scientific knowledge to the effects produced by drugs, to initiate scientific studies on the costs and benefits of current drug control policies, to help producing countries to convert agriculture, to study the effects that cannabis, opium and coca leaves can have in the medical field and, finally, to intervene in the confiscation of assets from drug laundering and trafficking by mafiosi and terrorists. i therefore call on the european parliament to approve this report, on the commission to support it and on the council - which is unfortunately absent, having obviously already taken decisions - to consider implementing this recommendation at its meeting in three days' time. i would also point out that this recommendation was drawn up with the support of a number of organisations from below.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prohibitionism in the world has always produced two results: on the one hand, there is the increase in deaths and incarcerations among drug users, who are among the prison population with the highest recidivism rate, and on the other hand, unlimited big business for all kinds of drug traffickers. on the contrary, this project aims primarily at protecting the health of each person. that's why harm reduction strategies are absolutely critical. only by keeping alive people who cannot or will not stop using drugs at the moment can we hope that in the future they will be able to break free from all forms of addiction. we must not forget that the majority of deaths are due to aids and heart disease, that is to say, pathological conditions linked to the way in which they are consumed. this is why damage reduction involves low-threshold interventions in the streets and centres. we must also make a firm distinction between drug dealers and drug users, who are often lumped together by repressive policies. finally, complementarities between social interventions and interventions through pharmacological substitutes are essential. we must avoid any moralism that pits them against each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that parliament will approve the eurlings report on turkey as approved by the committee on foreign affairs, and i hope that it will do so by secret ballot. i think that the members are mistaken in thinking that a secret ballot could help to change that direction, and i expect that members in this house will be able to show that they are not under any pressure in the exercise of their free mandate. as regards the rest of external relations, i would like to express our agreement with all the measures that anticipate constitutional reforms, and i agree with many of the points made by mr nicolaï. we have seen a sign of strengthening the initiative in this direction in the high representative's activism in ukraine. however, this initiative should be supported by more instruments, which are provided for in the constitution but which perhaps can be anticipated. we are also very concerned about the situation in the middle east. however, we point out the risk that measures aimed at creating a free trade area will prevail over other policies. i would like to stress that we do not want to create a zone of liberalization alone, and we must be careful not to weaken the regional and subregional dimension of this policy. as regards human rights and democracy, i recommend that a genuine convention be negotiated with the neighbouring countries. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. on the middle east, we must ensure that the palestinian presidential elections give a new impetus to the road map and that the unilateral decisions of the israeli government, such as the withdrawal from gaza, are included in the negotiations with the quartet, with the aim of arriving at the establishment of the palestinian state in a definite time. to this end, it would be necessary to put this issue at the heart of relations between the european union and the united states. as regards iraq, we believe that the desired change has not occurred even after the sharm el-sheikh conference and that the objective of the elections is in danger of being compromised by the situation of violence in the country. in conclusion, i would ask the council and the commission to also look at the situation in cambodia, where there is a humanitarian emergency affecting children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council is of particular importance because, as the representatives of the two institutions have said, it will inevitably deal with particularly important subjects, such as the enlargement of the union to bulgaria and romania, the possible opening of negotiations with croatia and turkey, the review of progress made in the fight against terrorism and, in particular, the integration of an information capacity within the general secretariat of the council and the preparation of the financial framework for the period 2007-13. we have already expressed on several occasions the desirability of the accession of bulgaria and romania, although we stress with particular concern the areas in which there are still great distances between the reality of these two countries and that of the european average. in this connection, we would like to recall the legislation on human rights, social protection of workers and economic development, which should reach substantial levels by the end of the decade. while we are in principle in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, which, i repeat, is quite different from accession, we cannot forget the need for the recognition of the armenian genocide and for a genuine solution to the cyprus problem. it is incomprehensible to the common sense that a state which aspires to join the union can militarily occupy part of another state which is a member. we are not at all concerned about the voting system we will have to face. i believe in the freedom of every member to decide, regardless of whether the vote is open or secret. i think that this is a purely formal matter and certainly not a substantive one. the fight against terrorism is closely linked to the development of the middle east peace process and to the situation in certain countries where conflicts are not yet over. i believe, however, that the union must be increasingly present with its policy and its aid in those parts of the world around it where conflict and sometimes tragic events are taking place, in order to exert a balancing influence in support of the forces which accept the values which characterize our democracy.
mr president, i don't mean to steal your job or give you advice. however, even if a request for a roll-call vote has been made, under rule 162 (3) of the rules of procedure the request for a secret ballot takes precedence over the request for a roll-call vote.
mr president, i am very pleased to announce a statement of vote on the report on turkey's accession to the european union. i am aware that i voted against turkey's accession to the european union, but i would like to explain how i came to this conclusion. on 9 december last, when i was in reggio calabria, invited by the representative of the pensioners' party, carlo rositani, to give a lecture at the tommaso gulli school, i asked a class of about 120 girls aged between 16 and 19 to vote for or against turkey's accession to the european union. the result of the vote by these 120 young people was as follows: one hundred out of 120 girls voted against membership, while the other 20 abstained. i therefore gladly followed the young people's vote.
mr president, i oppose the european parliament's decision to open accession negotiations with turkey, because turkey is not europe! moreover, there is a danger that one day we will see a flag - the turkish flag - waving in these institutions, a flag which is still stained with the blood of the armenian people, whose holocaust is not recognized by turkey. we have betrayed the spirit of lepanto, a thousand-year-old tradition of a europe which is and wants to remain attached to its christian roots. the turkish society is still deeply rooted in the principles of islamic fundamentalism and this is a serious danger that europe should take more seriously. we are therefore proud of our vote against the opening of the procedures for turkey's accession to europe and we consider it shameful that part of european politics which has irresponsibly supported this decision which goes against the will of the majority of the citizens. we call for a referendum to be held in all the countries of the european union to give the people a voice, because the people of europe are opposed to turkey's accession.
in writing. the delegation from the alliance nationale voted in favour of the eurlings report on the opening of the accession procedure for turkey, a procedure which will take several years and whose opening is unequivocally a prelude to a change in the turkish government's policy not only with regard to the acquis communautaire and the copenhagen clauses but especially with regard to the solution of the armenian and kurdish questions. the national alliance believes that the council decision of 17 december should make it clear that the opening of negotiations with turkey means the recognition by the turkish government of the state of cyprus as a full member of the european union and that, consequently, the solution of the cyprus problem, namely the withdrawal of the 35 000 turkish troops occupying cyprus, means that they occupy a territory of the european union. the european union will ensure that the guarantees and clauses contained in the report are respected, without which it will not be possible to reach a favourable conclusion to turkey's accession process.
in writing. turkey's eventual accession to the european union brings with it many benefits and some risks. the first are more political than economic, since turkey is not only a member of nato but also has a customs union treaty with the eu which already allows free trade in goods. its accession, in addition to fulfilling the dream of millions of citizens to be part of the full range of the secular western world, would rebalance the centre of political and economic influence by moving towards the mediterranean basin, accrediting europe as a world power and not closed within its geopolitical borders. the risks to be taken into account are primarily linked to the "dilution" of the possibility of seeing the birth of a europe with its own common foreign policy and the possible difficulty of making two different religious and cultural identities live together. can a democratic state be defined as respectful of ethnic minorities? secondly, it would have a negative impact on the allocation of european funds to regions currently considered 'lagging behind in development', such as sicily, at least in the short term. finally, turkey should withdraw from the part of cyprus that is militarily occupied, on the understanding that it will have to be willing to face up to history by acknowledging the mistakes made over the last hundred years... (the text of the explanation of vote was withdrawn pursuant to rule 163)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new italian socialist party wishes mr basescu well in his new job. the many young romanians who have supported him in recent months and who are filling the squares and streets of bucharest and the rest of the country with celebrations, have placed in him, beyond political affiliation, the hope of change and a different, new and better future. basescu has a difficult and exciting task: the european union is committed to the development of the country and to the consolidation of its democratic institutions. we hope - indeed we are certain - that the starting point of this process will be the full integration of romania into the political, economic and social bloc of the european union. in the two years that remain, as we look back with satisfaction on the achievements we have made, it will be our task to ensure that the many situations which are still far from european standards are improved in a concrete, real and significant way. i am referring in particular to the necessary and urgent qualitative leap forward in the field of human rights, with particular reference to the demands of the roma minority, which is often discriminated against with the consent of the government authorities. it is a question of two and a half million citizens living on the margins of society in absolutely unacceptable conditions. i am referring again to respect for the demands and aspirations of the 1.5 million hungarian minority, the treatment of the disabled, the inadequate conditions in health facilities, especially those for patients with mental problems, the violent methods and the actual physical abuse perpetrated by the police, a justice system far removed from efficiency and independence criteria, and information which is not yet fully free. visiting the country, i was struck and disturbed by the many, many children wandering the streets alone. we must demand a concrete commitment from the government on this issue. it is a legal and moral obligation, not an option. we must therefore do everything possible to guarantee to every child in romania, as in europe and the rest of the world, the right to a peaceful and happy childhood and the right to a smile of hope in life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join the many positive remarks made about the balance of the report by mr moscovici, which, while not concealing any of the critical points of romania's process of rapprochement with the european union, has clearly shown appreciation for the considerable efforts and results, albeit still partial, achieved by romania in this process. this morning, with great ease, this parliament started the process of turkey's accession to the european union. we are in favour of romania's accession for exactly the same reasons as those which led us to express our firm opposition to turkey's accession. romania is europe, romania has a civil and political society based on values which, despite the undeniable ambiguities, must be considered to be perfectly comparable to the values on which the european union is founded. certain areas in which fundamental steps still need to be taken, such as the multiannual strategy against crime, the question of state aid, which is particularly close to the heart of us liberals, the delicate question of the restitution of property and churches, and the modernisation of a judicial system which does not seem compatible with a society such as the european one, which is characterized by systems which are not immune to the direct influence and dominance of the state, certainly deserve encouragement and support. i heard a member of a political party who voted in favour of turkey's accession, who took up the strong remarks made by the ngos on the respect for human rights in romania. i would have liked to have heard the same remarks about turkey, which would have been much more justified. however, it is absolutely necessary to remind the romanian authorities of the urgent issue of illegal immigration. a colleague spoke of the minors, who rightly struck a chord with him during a visit to romania. i do not need to go to romania, because all i have to do is walk the streets of turin, milan, genoa and rome to see romanian minors being exploited by criminal organizations. we must say no more to illegal immigration and romania must defend its external borders and cooperate actively to stamp out this phenomenon, which does not honour the civilization of ionesco, mircea eliade and so many other great authors and thinkers of a civilization which we feel is close and common.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mr moscovici, for presenting us with a balanced report, which highlights the progress made by romania in recent years. baroness nicholson was right to recall the basis on which romania started and the reasons which made the path more difficult for this country. however, mr moscovici also highlighted the limitations and shortcomings of the romanian situation today. some colleagues from the countries which joined the union on 1 may are calling for greater severity. i would like to see us re-read what was said in this house when, before these countries joined, we were looking at the situation they had reached on their way to the union. it is very likely that the shortcomings were considerable then as well, but it was nevertheless considered appropriate to allow their accession within the time limits. we also have a safeguard clause for romania, which was not provided for in the other cases. i therefore believe that it is right to give this country the chance to play out all its capacities over the next two years so that it can be prepared when it actually joins our union. there is no doubt that there are issues which concern our fellow citizens, first and foremost the inadequate fight against organised crime. if we ask the citizens on the streets of our countries to express the fear they often have of criminal gangs, we will certainly find the will to encourage the romanian government to continue in this direction. as mr leinen rightly pointed out, the fight against corruption is very widespread in the countries entering our union. i would like to return to the subject of children. this is a subject i have dealt with extensively in my years with baroness nicholson. child protection should be at the heart of our thinking. i believe, however, that the proposal made by the rapporteur of an international committee is a good solution. if we want to prevent these children from spending their adolescence and youth on the streets of our cities or in institutions, we must take account of the dozens of families who are already in contact with these children and who are eager to give them affection. we therefore welcome the proposal made by mr moscovici to that effect. finally, mr president, we must consider the important value of stability. we shall see whether the result of the recent elections in bucharest will lead to political stability. i believe that is what we all want, because only with stability can there be any hope of seeing romania ready for its appointments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr moscovici for his excellent report. the accession of romania and bulgaria marks the completion of the fifth enlargement round, which will bring about a larger and more democratic europe, which will emerge on the global political scene, full of great possibilities and deep concerns, with its distinctive feature of civilised europe. europe is therefore not just an area of free markets and free movement with a single currency, but above all the capacity and willingness to export peacefully the model of the rule of law, the protection of minorities and human rights, sustainable development, and an efficient and cohesive economy and finance. this is what the spirit and the letter of the constitutional treaty and the charter of nice say. we therefore welcome the successes and the progressive improvement that romania has achieved in various areas, as mr moscovici has pointed out, in accordance with the copenhagen criteria, including the strengthening of respect for minorities, both hungarian and roma. however, romania still needs to make rapid progress in fulfilling all the commitments arising from accession, especially in the area of the acquis communautaire. structural interventions are not enough to combat poverty. corruption must also be combated by preventive measures and all laws must be respected. finally, we welcome the improvement in legislation on child protection and intercountry adoption. in the latter case, i would urge the romanian authorities to resolve promptly the problem of moratorium-affected adoptions, which are depriving children of a family to which they are entitled. in the name of this universal right, which is one of the strengths of the constitutional treaty, and in addition to the creation of an international commission to act immediately, i ask the newly elected romanian authorities not to waste precious time and i invite them to give these children, on christmas, parents who already love them and with whom they can build a better future in a europe of peace.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group i would like to welcome the commissioner. let me get straight to the point. this evening parliament is being asked to approve the extension of the specific programme on human rights and democracy for two years. in principle, our group has no objections. however, in these months of dialogue with the commission we have made our agreement subject to certain political conditions, namely a clear signal from the commission which you represent that it is willing to engage in a structured dialogue with parliament. it is not a question of claiming management tasks which are not within the responsibilities of this parliament, but of claiming a capacity for political evaluation of this measure and, more generally, of all initiatives concerning the development of democracy and the commitment to the issue of human rights. we ask for an ex ante assessment of the priorities of the interventions and an ex post assessment of the quality of the interventions and the extent to which they have succeeded in making a real advance in democracy. in other words, commissioner, this parliament is asking you to be involved in defining the guidelines for our activities and in assessing the adequacy of the results we have achieved. in these years many questions have remained unanswered and much information has not been received or has been provided in a very summary manner. we do not know how much money has actually been spent through this programme, what projects have been completed, where they have been carried out and with what concrete results, why funds are blocked in some countries, or what is being done to unblock these funds. we do not want to break the sacred rules of comitology, but we must find ways of establishing a relationship which is not based on a mere verbal expression of goodwill. commissioner, we appreciate your offer of cooperation and our willingness to extend the duration of this programme must be interpreted as an act of trust. it is important to make it clear that this parliament cannot be regarded, as it often is, as a notary called upon to formally approve expenditure but must be limited to that. that is not in the interests of this parliament or the community institutions. we believe that this programme should be streamlined and speeded up as much as possible, that local non-governmental organisations should be given more responsibility and that special emphasis should be placed on micro-projects and campaigns which have in the past been used in the difficult democratic environment of certain countries. we must work a little more on democracy, because we have neglected it so far, working mainly in the field of human rights. of course, we must also build up a capacity for dialogue, for which, madam commissioner, this parliament will give you our confidence and our vote. we hope, however, that from tomorrow this will be translated into a daily dialogue, not only formal but also substantive, in the examination of the choices that will be made and in the definition of the objectives that we will set ourselves.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the commissioner and i particularly appreciate the fact that she is a woman. i fully agree with the need to extend the implementation arrangements for rights, development and democracy. i congratulate mr mcmillan-scott and, above all, i share - in line with the vote i gave in committee - the view of mr fernández martín, particularly in the amendment which specifically calls for the commission to submit an annual report setting out the programming and reporting to the european parliament on implementation. however, i have taken from mrs ferrero-waldner's words the commission's readiness to cooperate and also to discuss, in a serious and thorough manner, not only the broad lines but also the implementation of projects. i would also like to see this dialogue take place directly with the committee on development which i chair, since the problems of human rights, women's empowerment and democracy are in fact closely linked to the question of development. i would like to say to the very nice mrs mcmillan-scott that i understand her frustration and that i agree with this valuable project, as mr flautre has said. in fact, fathers do not always see their children grow up. i do not want to emulate the united states, because their interventions have often led to the creation of dictatorships, such as pinochet. i believe that the grand plan for the democratic development of the middle east has already been rejected by many in the middle east, because it is seen as an intervention of power and not as real help. so i would like us to maintain our specificity and also to be able to value the important things we are doing. we do not want to export democracy, but we want democracy to grow and to be able to grow, and we can offer the instruments for this purpose. and as i've been to conflict zones and seen the sheer volume of projects, i've realized that this ability to intervene without going through governments is critically important. the issue of torture, training and rehabilitation, as well as women's empowerment issues, were extremely important. i think we really have to continue along this path, of course with the awareness that there are many limitations and many shortcomings, also in terms of funding. i would not like us to limit ourselves to electoral observation missions, which are often not even serious considering that they last only one day. i would very much like us to continue to operate along the lines where aid and our intervention can be an instrument for the growth of democracy and not for the imposition of our values.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with mr papadimoulis' report on the absolute need to extend the community action programme for the two years 2005-06 in order to facilitate cooperation, particularly cross-border cooperation, the exchange of experience and mutual assistance between the member states in this field. crossborder cooperation and the culture of cooperation are fundamental, because the security of the countries of the european union is strongly linked to what happened at its borders. to do that, we need to invest heavily in volunteering. we also agree on the seven areas which need to be strengthened, given the weaknesses identified in individual national situations. the european people's party also considers it necessary for the commission to evaluate the implementation of this programme before its expiry and to prepare a report to be submitted to the european parliament and the council. it is noted that the community action programme for the two-year period 2005-06 was extended without the intermediate and final reports provided for in decision 1999/847/ec establishing a community action programme in the field of civil protection for the period 1 january 2000 to 31 december 2004 having been transmitted to parliament. to date, no explanation has even been given. this is very serious because it affects the european parliament's prerogatives of judgment and forces it to give its opinion without knowing any qualitative or quantitative data on the measures taken and the results achieved. however, our confidence in the new commission leads us to hope that these reports will be forwarded by the requested date of 30 june 2006, precisely in order to promote full cooperation between the european parliament and the commission. these documents should provide us with an assessment of the extension of the community action programme for civil protection, together with the measures envisaged by the other two community programmes in force, which will provide the parliament's committee on the environment with useful suggestions to be included in the desired single action programme that the commission will prepare for the period 2007-2013.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to state at once that i am in favour of extending the community action programme on civil protection for two years. it seems to me that rather than a free choice, it is a forced solution with no alternative. we have reached the end of the current programme without a lasting and concrete solution to the problem. this shows how marginal the issue of civil protection is in europe. i believe i have gained some modest experience in this field, as chairman of the civil protection committee of the province of catania, the most exposed in italy to seismic and volcanic risk, but also having coordinated, on behalf of the italian government, the emergency during the dramatic eruption of mount etna in the summer of 2001. in these years i have been able to consolidate the idea that civil protection, in addition to being a pleasant topic for round tables or pleasant social evenings, is a matter inextricably linked to the security of citizens and security, as is well known, before being a constitutional right, is a physiological right. i think i can say that the european union is lagging behind in this area, very seriously, scandalously. the matter was tackled only five years ago with a series of initiatives which - according to the rapporteur himself, whose work i appreciated - sound good in theory but in practice have serious shortcomings. in fact, the approach seems schizophrenic not only in terms of logistics but also in terms of the lack of financial coverage. commissioner, what results have the information monitoring centre, the solidarity fund and the community mechanism produced in terms of risk forecasting and prevention, as well as emergency and post-emergency management? what qualitative results have they produced in the european union? is it possible to know the effects? is it possible to have a detailed report? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. how can civil protection in europe be allowed to remain divided into competencies spread over the environment, health, land, agriculture and internal policies? it is necessary to set up a european agency for civil protection, as i took the liberty of asking the commission two years ago. in addition to the clear involvement of an operational structure, especially in relation to the member states least sensitive to the problem, this solution would have the advantage of developing and standardizing procedures and methodologies for the analysis and mitigation of natural and technological risks, overcoming the criterion of territoriality, and of creating a real task force. in conclusion, i believe that it is necessary to promote and support, through an organised training activity and with equipment and means, the action of volunteers in civil protection, which becomes an indispensable resource in dealing with emergencies and natural and other disasters. i hope that the commission will find the strength, the will and the courage to confront parliament on this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr ribeiro's excellent report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of deep-sea coral reefs from the effects of demersal fishing, more generally known as 'trawl fishing', is timely and supported by numerous studies in this field. the impact on these environments - as indeed happens for all types of marine environment affected by undifferentiated sampling techniques - affects, as is well known, not only pelagic and edible sessile species, but also non-edible sessile forms and, more generally, causes serious damage to environments essential for reproduction. this leads to the depletion of the resource and, consequently, of the economic potential, with the greatest negative impact on local communities, in particular on small craft fisheries. the protection of these environments, in addition to the recognition of the international conventions cited in the report, is therefore an important measure to ensure not only environmental protection but also the continuity of social and economic prospects for the human communities that persist in the regions concerned. this is generally true of all regions where fishing is a traditional resource which, as such, must be safeguarded, not only by limiting industrial fishing by fleets from other countries, but also by ensuring the continuity of breeding habitats. the involvement of local communities, in particular those working in the sector, is essential to this end. i therefore think it desirable that the institutions, local authorities and trade associations, with the help of the community institutions, should, in addition to monitoring protected areas, take care of the periodic scientific monitoring of habitats, as well as environmentally friendly information and the professionalism of the staff. it is also necessary to encourage the potential of small artisanal enterprises by providing them with modern tools for research, identification and harvesting of resources, in order to promote greater selectivity in the harvesting of marine resources and to enable these enterprises to survive competition from industrial fishing fleets, particularly those of japan and the united states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll be very brief. i wanted to say that i voted for the report and i hope that we can make considerable progress in this area in the future. in this context, i also asked the new commission to propose that a civil service be introduced for young people in the european union, whether male or female, in order to create the conditions, especially in such situations, so that in the event of disasters, but also in solidarity service, there is more responsibility and more awareness among the population within the european union. i am, as i said, in favour of this report and i am glad that it is being pursued in this direction.
mr president, we are very happy that the municipal elections in saudi arabia have taken place, but we deeply regret the lack of participation by women. (applause) i would like to thank
