on 1 may, when celebrations marking eu expansion were taking place throughout the whole of europe, lithuania also celebrated the day of workers' solidarity. for the people of the new member countries, eu membership means more social justice, more civilized working conditions, and better wages. we must not create a new iron curtain, fencing ourselves off from our new neighbours, the ukraine, moldova and, of course, russia, countries which are actually old neighbours as far as the new member states are concerned. let us not take away those countries' hopes that one day they will themselves become members of the european union. belarus must not be left beyond the neighbourhood's boundaries. lithuania, which has a five hundred and fifty kilometre external border with this state, is very concerned that economic reforms and democratic change should take place in this country. if nothing is done in this state, however, then everything will carry on as before for many years to come. some of the new member countries have already lived with their neighbours in one union. we understand the mentality and customs of our neighbours and are ready to help export the values of the european union to our new neighbours.
president of the commission. they will be very short answers. as regards the new structure of europe, i am clearly referring to the previous answer. there is, of course, one more consideration to be made: the debate on the common custody of borders, the realisation that they are no longer the borders of a single country but the borders of the union as a whole. the reference to the length of these borders and especially the specific reference to poland is a reference to the solidarity of the whole union. i would remind you of the progress made in the last year on this specific issue. the president of the council will decide who will succeed me, the prime ministers will decide. i, from my experience, recommend only one thing: a lot of patience and great physical endurance. the president of the commission must above all physically resist this work. the rest depends on the choices made by the members of the european council.
(lt) while greeting all of the commissioners, especially those new ones, i have a question for mr romano prodi. mr president of the commission, in its next term will the commission, which you lead so well, consider some sort of more permanent european integration strategy for the königsberg/kaliningrad question? in your opinion, would it not be of value to europe, and allow a better understanding of this region's historical position and problems, if it were proposed that the culture commissioners organise an international academic conference on the contribution of the two figures immanuel kant and mikhail kalinin to european culture?
dear prime minister, today i, a parliamentarian from lithuania, have the opportunity and pleasure to address you in my native lithuanian. unfortunately, the closest people to lithuania, and now also to the european union's neighbours - 10 million belarusians - do not have such opportunities today. very close to the geographical centre of europe, there is a people who are still not allowed to speak their own language in schools or universities. moreover, she is denied the right to freedom of speech and conscience. i am talking about a nation imprisoned in the heart of europe, ruled by the last dictator in europe, who intends to prolong his dictatorship for life by a sham referendum on 17 october, and who considers the hitler regime to be the best example in europe. we are convinced that the continuation of the european union's policy towards its eastern neighbours must not only be a condemnation of this regime, with joint declarations without any concrete consequences, but also a concrete support for those democratic forces in opposition who are spreading the ideas of democracy and pluralism in a non-violent way and who are striving to ensure that the belarusian people live in a country which respects human rights and freedoms. that is why, together with my colleague mr šimanski, i propose to support the draft resolution submitted on behalf of the european people's political group, which calls in this context for the sakharov prize to be awarded to those who will determine the future of belarus - the opposition youth movement zubr, as a symbol of all those who will not submit to the regime and who will determine the future of a free belarus. thank you for your attention.
belarus is a neighbour of lithuania, a neighbour of the european union, and we are certainly not all that concerned about what is happening in that country. as we know, president alexander lukashenko of belarus, politically isolated by western countries' human rights abuses and restrictions on media freedom, is seeking by all means a third presidential term in the 2006 elections. the question put to the referendum on 17 october is very simple and understandable for the citizens of belarus: "will you allow the first president of the republic, alexander lukashenko, to run as a candidate for the presidency in the elections of the head of state?" end of quote. lukashenko explains this to the belarusian people in the same simple and understandable way. i quote: "as i promised you earlier, if i decide to participate in the 2006 presidential elections, i will definitely consult with you and ask for your permission - and that is what i am doing", he said on belarusian state television. today, as in the past, the european parliament has been confronted with many cases of human rights violations, restrictions on freedom of the press, bans on universities and non-governmental organisations. unfortunately, the belarusian people know little about the fact that we care about their situation, their lives. the statements of the european parliament, other democratic world institutions, leaders on this subject if they reach belarus, it is a great distortion, they are presented to the belarusian citizens as the wishes of global capitalism, attempts to dictate to belarusians how they should live. information that belarusians find on the internet, which is accessible to them, is less censored, but the degree of computerization in the country is low, so that a large part of the population is fed state propaganda. we need to ensure that objective information reaches the belarusian citizens through the usual channels. i propose that when the 2005 budget of the european union is approved, we should find the means to broadcast radio and perhaps television programmes in the belarusian and russian languages, which could be produced together with belarusian journalists [...] and broadcast from the neighbouring countries - lithuania and poland, as was done before 2001. a few million litas from the european union budget every year will certainly not impoverish the european union, but i think that a far more effective way of strengthening civic, democratic initiatives and traditions would be to send a delegation of the european parliament to observe the elections, to monitor, to record the de facto situation. thank you for your attention.
mr president, there has been an extremely painful tragedy in north ossetia, in which the brutality of some perpetrators has met the lack of responsibility of others. it's reminiscent of the moscow theater tragedy and it brings up a lot of thoughts. when the russian authorities today declare that they will fight terrorism anywhere, it may seem new and positive, perhaps opening the door to joint efforts in iraq, afghanistan, stopping terrorist actions in qatar and elsewhere without selection. when the russian authorities denounce double standards, there is hope that russian terrorists, such as those who murdered 7 lithuanian border guards in cold blood on the night of 31 july 1991, will also be prosecuted. the criminals of the terrorist black bears are known, they live in russia to protect and supply its authorities, which refuse to cooperate with vilnius for justice. in so many of their speeches about fighting terrorism, russian leaders have repeatedly shown double standards and hypocrisy. the european union could encourage them to change their behaviour. the following is a quote from a statement made by the shadow government at the beginning of the beslan crisis. "we condemn this act of terrorism in the strongest terms and join the call of the united nations security council for the release of the hostages. at the same time, we deeply regret that the un security council has never condemned or expressed condolences for the 42,000 chechen children who were killed in chechnya at the behest of the russian authorities". end of quote. at that moment, the children of beslan were suffering, but they were still alive. and 42,000 other children were no longer alive, no longer suffering. to them, the anachronistic colonial war was already over. when is he gonna stop? those who say, "victory first, then peace", are wrong. it's the blind man. we need to come to a new understanding that peace is victory. a peace that would save thousands of lives, that would mean that children would no longer die because of the stupidity and cruelty of adults, cannot be shameful. general de gaulle did not embarrass france by ending the algerian war. thank you for your attention.
while i agree with the views expressed that the core provisions of the stability pact need not be revised and that the means of implementing them are clearly defined, i would nevertheless like to point out that the long-term sustainability of the pact depends on economic flexibility in assessing the readiness of ordinary citizens for change. the impression now arises that the main criterion of this pact is the size of the fiscal deficit, and its sole purpose is to ensure the stability of the euro, all of which can only be achieved through structural reforms, while the purpose of economic solutions is to ensure the growth of citizens' welfare by allowing them to successfully realise their potential. unfortunately, in the real economy, structural reforms mean reducing spending on social programmes, which represent the largest comparative weight in the public finance structure. lithuania's experience of reforms shows that if the environment is not created for the transfer of capital and labour from low-wage activities to more productive ones, i.e. if a liberal window of opportunity is not opened to the population and business, the social costs of structural reforms are very high and their results, due to the high resistance, do not meet expectations. the main priority of the pact should therefore be to promote economic dynamism, creativity and the creation of quality jobs, so that even my skeptical british colleagues are not left in any doubt as to the rationale for financial and economic stability.
mr president, the european commission under romano prodi’s leadership is finishing its term. it is true that during the term in office of this particular commission the largest eu enlargement was carried out successfully and my homeland, lithuania, became a fully-fledged member of the european union. it is most likely that in the near future the name of romano prodi will be in the textbooks of lithuanian children. nevertheless, i would like to make a few comments about one of the commission’s responsibilities: external relations, and especially the european neighbourhood policy, mentioned by mr prodi today. this policy, which is of the greatest importance, seeks not just to extend the borders of the eu, but also to extend the area of peace and stability in europe. it is a fact that sometimes our neighbours are countries with a highly developed bureaucracy and controlled democracy. sometimes these are countries where human rights are undermined and violated every day, for example belarus. the european parliament resolution on eu-russia policy states that this policy is far from adequate: objectives are not clearly defined, there is a lack of internal coherence, interests and values are not effectively promoted. if one looks at the figures on financial assistance for strengthening democracy in belarus and guaranteeing civil and human rights, comparing the united states of america and the eu one might question whether belarus is on the eastern border of the united states or the eu. i would add moldova to this list, given that so far there is no eu permanent representation in that country. only six eu member states have embassies there, in comparison to the presence of eu representatives in many countries that are quite a distance from the eu and are not very important players at all. i wish to finish by saying that i sincerely hope that the lisbon strategy, with all the high expectations placed in it, will not become an unfinished european project, as have some promising strategies in the past. i wish the members of the commission well.
mr president, mr representative of the european union, we look with hope to georgia, which is showing a firm determination to build a democratic state based on the rule of law. it is needed by the people who are our european neighbours. they suffered under the soviet dictatorship for a long time, and then they suffered from internal conflict, foreign interference, and corruption. we must support it as a country that has made a strong statement of euro-atlantic aspirations and has already begun to work concretely towards the principles and standards of the european union. georgia may have to choose between the difficult alternatives if the two main challenges prove too difficult to tackle together. given the known force of the division of georgia into a major and de facto two separate parts, the country's alternatives are: either to create a european democracy in loyal tbilisi and its administered part of georgia, i.e. the rule of law with a free economy and minority rights, or to try to liquidate the division as soon as possible, restoring the rule of law and administrative control of the georgian state throughout the country. i would suggest that the first priority be given to the task of building a democratic state in the area that the georgian authorities are currently seeking. but georgia's gaze on the west, on its european neighbours and on the european union is a test for the european union as well. this is the european principle of openness. first, the continent of europe itself, which is also the home of ancient legends, the land of the golden fleece, one of the oldest christian states, that is, georgia. may those european countries which embrace our ideals come closer to us in every way. and the european union's favour will be an incentive for their progress. thank you. thank you.
commission. i would first like to thank mrs mcguinness for this question. the main objective of the food labelling legislation in the eu is to provide consumers with factual information regarding the characteristics of foodstuffs, such as composition, quantity and shelf-life. under eu food law, origin labelling is not mandatory, unless the origin is clearly connected with one or more characteristics of a foodstuff, or it is necessary that the purchaser should not be misled as to its true origin, for instance where its name includes a geographical reference. origin labelling in itself would not provide the consumer with clear information as regards animal welfare or methods of production. we continue to work through international organisations to improve world standards in areas such as animal welfare. this would offer the best way forward in meeting the honorable member's concerns about the application of these rules in third countries. as regards standards of food safety, all food and feed placed on the market in the eu must be safe, irrespective of where it comes from. third countries may only export food products to the eu if stringent conditions are met and a verification mission has been carried out by the food and veterinary office. in addition, obligatory checks are carried out on all imports of animal products at the point of entry, in the eu border inspection posts. the recently adopted food and feed regulation aims to harmonise controls on all other imported food products. these measures ensure that the food standards applied in the export sector of third countries trading with the eu meet eu food safety requirements.
commission. i would firstly like to thank mrs mcguinness for her kind words about the work i have been doing over the past five years. i much appreciate that. on the issue of her supplementary question: there is specific legislation relating to beef labelling, namely regulation no 1760/2000, which specifies the particular requirements in relation to beef, including its origin, and was enacted in response to the issues surrounding the bse controversy some years ago. any labelling in any member state which mis-states the origin of the beef in question is a failure to comply with that piece of legislation. the commission is always concerned at any failure to comply with eu law. if this has happened on any occasion in ireland or indeed anywhere else in the manner that you have described, this is a clear failure of compliance with eu legislation. in those circumstances it is a matter for the competent authorities of the member states, and in this instance the competent authorities in ireland, to ensure that any failure to comply with eu legislation is properly investigated and dealt with in the appropriate manner. it certainly would not be the wish of the commission to see any failure to comply with legislation of this kind and this is a matter which should be dealt with properly and by the competent authorities of the member state in question.
my question is about the commission's position on the fact that the law of the russian federation on additional guarantees and compensations for military servicemen etc., in its versions of 21 january 1993, 21 july 1993 etc. … (the president cut the speaker off)
council. mr president, i will start by giving my compliments to the rapporteur, mr menéndez del valle. the presidency can agree with most of the remarks and recommendations in this interesting and good report. i also fully agree with everyone who said that it is very important to give priority to good relations with this very important country, one which is becoming more important economically, technically and politically. mr menéndez del valle also mentioned the importance of un reforms. as everyone knows, the council does not have a common position on the enlargement of the un security council, so it is clear that the union will not be able explicitly to state whether it will support the indian request to become a permanent member of the security council. i emphasise that the un reforms cover much more than just the security council. possible disagreements on those reforms should not prevent us from implementing other necessary reforms in the un. some members of parliament – mr özdemir and mr van den berg – mentioned the important issue of human rights. as you know, discussing human rights within the united nations is a sensitive issue; i am sure the european parliament delegation which visited kashmir last june noted that too. nevertheless, we will discuss the human rights issue, the situation of women and children, and other subjects, at the summit. we have been consistent in our position that in the fight against terrorism, or any other kind of militant extremism, human rights should also be respected.
council. mr president, the political situation in belarus is going from bad to worse. during the parliamentary elections of 17 october 2004, very few opposition candidates were allowed to run and none of them were elected to parliament. the referendum to allow a third presidential term is said to have been won by a large majority of votes. the way is now open for president lukashenko to put up his candidature for the presidential elections in 2006 and be elected for a third time, if not become president for life. if these presidential elections are conducted the same way as the elections and referendum of 17 october, there is no doubt that he will succeed in this. in our declaration of 20 october 2004 we clearly condemned the voting process. we noted with great concern that the elections and referendum failed to meet the international standards for democratic elections. the osce/odihr preliminary findings are clear about what went wrong. the european union is deeply disappointed that both during the election campaign and on election day there were concrete signs of the belarusian authorities’ disregard for democratic rules. the extent and character of the irregularities observed by the osce international election observation mission raise serious doubts whether the results reflect the will of the belarusian electorate at all. exit polls, which we consider to be more credible, suggest that this is not the case. you probably all saw the subsequent pictures on television last week, of peaceful demonstrators and opposition leaders in belarus being beaten up by police. we are very concerned about these violent attacks. these attacks, especially the attack on the life and health of opposition leader lebedko, seem to have been well targeted and prepared. we call upon the belarusian authorities to release immediately all those who were arrested in exercising their right to free speech, as provided by the constitution of belarus. needless to say, we also condemn the attacks on journalists, including russian tv journalists, who tried to cover the demonstrations. we are faced with a neighbouring country where one man on his own decides what is best for the population. opposition and independent media are repressed, democracy is a far cry. and this is not a new situation: the situation has existed since 1996 when president lukashenko abrogated the elected parliament, and changed the constitution to invest all the executive powers in the president, i.e. his own person. it is not only in the interest of the belarus people, but also in the european union’s interest to have democracy, respect for human rights, peace, security and prosperity in this neighbouring country. so what can the european union do to further developments in order to bring about a better life for the people of belarus? since 1997, the european union's relations with belarus have been at a very low level. in that year the eu decided not to ratify the partnership and cooperation agreement with belarus, in view of the abrogation of democracy in 1996. all technical assistance was stopped except if promoting democracy or humanitarian aid. after the presidential elections of 2001, when lukashenko was re-elected, the eu decided to continue its strict policy towards the regime, but at the same time to try to continue and – if possible – to expand relations with civil society. unfortunately, the situation is only getting worse. the popular support of president lukashenko diminishes, and the regime – as a reaction – gets more and more oppressive. so what can the eu do about it, in terms of both carrots and sticks? firstly, what has the eu to offer? in order to bring about an area of peace, security and prosperity the eu has developed the european neighbourhood policy. if belarus decides to choose the path of democracy and rule of law, where the population decides on its own economic and political future, the eu is prepared to make belarus the same offer as other neighbouring countries. of course we should not offer this whilst belarus is not making any changes. but how big is this carrot? as prosperity in the new eu member states neighbouring belarus grows along with democratic stability, this may be expected to have a strong psychological effect on the people of belarus. this will hopefully be an irreversible process. assistance to civil society is already a long-standing policy of the eu. but to bring about this support within the borders of belarus is getting more and more difficult in practice. the regime is doing everything to prevent western support to non-governmental organisations. an alternative is to develop more activities for belarus civil society outside belarus. the invitation of a number of opposition and civil society leaders to visit to brussels in may is one example of this new policy. but more can be done, in the form of participation of belarusians in seminars, courses and studies abroad. in the years ahead we should invest more in the belarusian people in this way. i am also very happy about the establishment of a separate delegation for belarus in the european parliament. this will give you as parliamentarians a chance to focus more on this neighbouring country and to establish your own contacts. i think that this step also proves to the belarusians that the eu takes the situation in their country very seriously. secondly, what negative measures can the eu take? relations are already on a very low level. we have had sanctions in the form of a visa ban against the belarus leaders in the past. recently, we extended it to cover other high-level people. the only area that is still left aside is the economy and trade. such a policy would clearly also hit the population as such, and will further isolate belarus. president lukashenko would argue that the population is worse off as a result of the eu’s action, not his own policy. furthermore, the ordinary citizen will be worst hit. so it is i am afraid a double-edged sword. we have to be very careful when considering such steps. the political developments in belarus are of great concern not only to the eu, but also to others such as the osce and the us. if we give the signals together, our voice will be better heard. but we will also have to work together with russia, which seems to be the only country to have some influence over belarus. we therefore also raised the situation in belarus at the ministerial troika with minister lavrov last week. whilst the russian government shares our concern about the situation, unfortunately we disagree about the way forward. the russians do not want to maintain the strict policy that the eu is implementing. and that i deeply regret. as i explained, the instruments available to the eu to influence developments are limited. but we will continue, as the eu, as individual member states and through the osce, to try to influence the situation with these instruments and bring about a real improvement of the lives of the belarus people. (applause)
commission. mr president, the developments in belarus are of great concern to the european union. the european union has a major interest in the stability, prosperity and democracy of its neighbourhood. it is deplorable that belarus has not taken the opportunity of the october parliamentary elections to take positive steps towards democratic pluralism. on the contrary, the parliamentary elections on 17 october fell significantly short of osce commitments for democratic elections. the controversial referendum on the removal of the two-term limit on the office of the president failed to meet international standards. as pointed out in the preliminary findings of the international election observation mission of the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights, the extent and the seriousness of irregularities during the electoral period and the voting day itself raise serious doubts as to whether the results of the elections fully reflect the will of the belarusian electorate. freedom of expression, association and assembly were seriously challenged. election campaigning by the candidates was, in many ways, restricted. the state media conducted an extensive campaign in favour of the incumbent political forces, whilst portraying the opposition in overwhelmingly negative terms. non-state print media had only a minor role to play. access to independent information sources remains limited by the fact that all nation-wide radio and television channels are state-controlled. in the days following the elections, the negative trend in the political climate in belarus has persisted. since election day, the authorities have turned, in an increasingly harsh and intolerant manner, against those citizens who have challenged the outcome of the elections and referendum in peaceful street demonstrations. many of those who have expressed themselves in public have been arrested or fined. opposition leaders and journalists have been beaten up. it is extremely worrying that, time after time, dissident voices in belarus are not listened to, but repressed by the authorities. for better or for worse, belarus is a neighbour country of the european union, with important historical, cultural and social ties with the enlarged european union. we cannot be indifferent to the future of our relations with this or any other country in our immediate neighbourhood. the european union has developed a framework to reinforce further the relationship between the enlarged eu and its neighbours, including belarus: the european neighbourhood policy (enp), for which i happen to be responsible, for longer than expected. as president prodi has said, the aim of the enp is to create a 'ring of friends'. a key principle of the 'ring of friends' we are forging is joint ownership. we cannot impose the policy on anyone, but we are ready to convince our neighbours of the benefits of the enp. we are offering closer cooperation across the spectrum of our relations, from political dialogue to economic integration, on the basis of commitment to common values. this offer is also valid for belarus. through the enp, the european union is ready to reinforce its lasting commitment to supporting democratic development in belarus. if and when fundamental political and economic reforms take place, it will be possible for belarus to be fully involved in the enp, with all the benefits that would bring. under the current conditions, however, there can be no fully-fledged enp action plan for belarus. the october parliamentary elections and the referendum were an important milestone for belarus under the enp, but, unfortunately, belarus failed to meet it. however, closer relations, including relations in the framework of the enp, are still a possibility, provided that fundamental reforms are introduced. in the absence of fundamental reforms, one extremely important question remains: how should the democratic process in belarus be further encouraged? first of all, we believe in lasting engagement with the people of belarus. at present, a key element in eu policy towards belarus is support for civil society and the process of democratisation. the commission wishes to pass a clear message to the belarusian people, so that they know the eu has not forgotten them. the needs of the population should be addressed by way of technical assistance. people-to-people contacts between belarus and the eu can be further fostered. the european union is aiming to raise awareness of eu policies and assistance benefiting belarusian citizens. i strongly believe that our new member states in that region of europe will help us to achieve our goals. the commission intends to use the assistance instruments at its disposal to continue support and assistance to civil society organisations, journalists and independent media, universities and, where appropriate, local authorities. belarus will continue to be able to benefit from relevant regional, cross-border and thematic programmes. it should be mentioned, however, that the delivery of international assistance to civil society and independent media is far from easy. in the past few years belarus has refused to grant tax exemptions for eu assistance, in breach of earlier commitments between belarus and the european union. today, belarus requires all foreign gratuitous aid projects to be registered by the state authorities, which allows them effectively to turn down any international assistance that they do not appreciate. secondly, we continue to monitor closely the state of human rights, respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the country and raise our concerns with the belarusian government. based on information submitted by european trade union confederations, the commission has launched an investigation into alleged violations of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in the framework of the generalised system of preferences (gsp). depending on the findings of the investigation, the eu will need to reconsider whether belarus should have access to the benefits of the gsp scheme in the future. thirdly, it is important to take account of the long-term prospects. in the longer term, our proximity to belarus could and should be translated into close cooperation and exchanges in fields of common interest, such as trade, justice and home affairs, transport, energy and the environment, provided that fundamental political reforms are carried out. the commission wants to keep the door open for full participation in the enp by a democratic belarus. i would like to conclude by underlining again that it is important that the belarusian people – and especially those striving for democratic change – are not left out in the cold. it is more important than ever to continue and develop our efforts to support civil society and democratic forces in belarus. the commission is committed to doing so.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to look at a map, we would immediately see that the enlargement of the european union has presented a unique opportunity for belarus, if this opportunity is not merely theoretical. both of these are very fragile foundations on which we can only imagine belarus as a bridge between the european union and russia. the belarusian bridge would be both necessary for all three parties and profitable for belarus itself. but for that to happen, there must be a democratic independent state of belarus. currently, belarus is a semi-dependent protectorate ruled by an autocratic dictator, backed by russia. those who think that everything in belarus, including the elections, depends only on mr lukashenko are mistaken. when we criticize only the belarusian government, we deviate from reality. since 1997, the union of russia and belarus has been developing towards a greater integration of states. russia's responsibility cannot therefore be ignored. for example, mr lukashenko appointed general uschopchik, the murderer of unarmed people wanted by the lithuanian court for the events in vilnius in 1991, as a deputy minister of the current belarusian government. we believe that lukashenko did this political provocation without the direction of moscow's advisors. but this friendship with saddam hussein's dictatorship, including the arms trade, could hardly have been pursued, at least, without moscow's approval. it seems that russia is in a good position. if russia had no use for it, it would have been different long ago, and it would not have been lukashenko. however, the protectorate is given to lukashenko. not just for the country, but for the regime. things will change when russia realizes that this is not in its best interest either. the european union could help set up a democratic belarus information centre in brussels.
mr. chairman, my colleagues. ten days ago, steps were taken in belarus that further distanced the country from democratic europe. belarus has been a neighbour of the eu for six months. it is one thing to be tolerant of a regime that is developing into an autocracy because it is overseas, but it is quite another to be unpredictable in the form of a state whose border is only 30 kilometres from vilnius, the capital of one of the eu member states. the strengthening of relations with russia, where anti-european sentiment is spreading and where some democratic gains are being eroded, has had a certain influence on minsk. i also support the council's position that, in the period before the 2006 presidential elections, it is essential to adjust the eu's policy in belarus in principle to the new circumstances. barely effective measures partially supporting the belarusian authorities' efforts to isolate themselves, the country and its people. in general, in the age of television, computers and information technology, self-isolation can be successful only for a historically short period of time. we need to involve belarusians more in real cooperation with the european union, to give hope of being a fully democratic part of europe. lithuania and other neighbours of belarus have specific plans. it's the broadcasting of a free radio programme, the publication of an opposition newspaper, the creation of a european humanitarian university in exile. these ideas require additional eu funding. the attention, resources, and capacity to build a civil society in belarus after october 17 will need to be not doubled, but multiplied by ten.
mr president, on 19 october the european commission endorsed the conclusions of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe that the elections in belarus on 17 october fell well short of democratic standards - they were not free and fair - and i fully support the commission's conclusions. in addition, it has been said that belarus can forget about the neighbourhood policy; instead, sanctions are in the offing, as the eu has a history of being willing to respond with sanctions to violations against democracy and human rights. a week later, the opposite view was announced by the russian parliament, which declared that the elections and the referendum in belarus were fair, free, democratic and legitimate. only eight members of the russian duma voted against, while 416 were in favour. our conclusion should be clear: the russian parliament has distanced itself from all democratic parliaments in the world and has also proved that the last dictator in europe has the full backing of the russian duma, controlled by political forces closely linked to president putin. almost at the same time, another document - the belarus democracy act of 2004 - was signed by the american president. this is a clear commitment to support those in belarus who are working towards democracy: students, trade unionists, civic and religious leaders, journalists and all citizens of belarus claiming freedom for their nation. this document provides for usd 45 million to be used to strengthen democracy in belarus. what then should and could the european union - and we, the european parliament in particular - do? a month ago here in strasbourg i spoke about the radio for good neighbourhood project for international broadcasting to belarus. this aims to renew cross-border broadcasting to belarus in one radio channel, using the data resources of radyjo ratsyya from belarus and the high-powered broadcasting licence of radio baltic waves from vilnius, lithuania. the support of commissioner verheugen and my colleagues from this parliament is necessary to implement this idea. (applause)
- mr. president, i would like to draw your attention to the council's proposal to lift the arms embargo on china. i want to ask everyone, has any foreign country threatened china? if so, what is it? if not, why do we need modern weapons in a state that has a reputation for human rights violations, one-party dictatorships, and a lack of the rule of law? since when does the european union decide to arm communist dictatorships? we have seen how the people's republic of china has threatened and continues to threaten a military invasion of a democratic state such as taiwan. if we do not want to create another source of tension in the region, we must endorse the document prepared by afet, recommending not to lift the arms embargo on the people's republic of china. otherwise, we could have another conflict, and we might respond with some new resolution. but it wouldn't have any effect. as regards the code, it should be noted that it should only be legally binding. otherwise, it's just a blank piece of paper.
mr president, as a lithuanian, as a representative of the lithuanian people, whose president is in kiev today with polish president kvasniewski and mr solana, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the events in ukraine and the success of the peaceful revolution will have very important consequences not only for ukraine, its people, not only for the further development of the european union, but also for belarus, ukraine's closest neighbour. and that's why it's so important for all of us to be in solidarity today. our support for democracy in ukraine today is also our signal to the dictator in belarus. i am sure that the belarusian people are watching the developments in ukraine with the greatest attention and hope today, but mr lukashenko is watching them with no less attention and fear. so let the success of ukraine today be the prelude to the success of democracy in belarus tomorrow. thank you for your attention.
mr president, this eu-russia summit is a very important event because it is the first held since eu was enlarged to include the countries of central and eastern europe. it is my sincere belief that the outcome of the summit needs to be debated in the european parliament, so let me stress a few points that were discussed during the summit. parliament should welcome the 14th eu-russia summit in the hague while regretting, however, that it has been a failure as far as substantial progress on the establishment of the four common spaces is concerned. we should strongly support the efforts of the council and commission to use the opportunity provided by the summit to underline that russia, the partner of the european union, carries a great responsibility in our common neighbourhood, and in ukraine, moldova and belarus in particular. we should also firmly reject the allegations recently made by the russian authorities that the european union and the international community, by expressing their support for the ukrainian people’s right to exercise their constitutional rights, is encouraging violence in ukraine. in this context we should express our concern about the centralisation of kremlin powers at the expense of democracy, independent media, the regions, the rule of law and human rights, especially with regard to the situation in chechnya and the yukos affair. at the same time i believe that ratification of broad agreements between the russian federation and certain member states of the union is one of the keys to strengthening the eu-russia partnership and encouraging mutual understanding and trust. finally, the kaliningrad region, as an important factor for the overall development of the baltic sea area, was also discussed in the hague. therefore, i would like to take this opportunity to call on the russian duma and the leadership of the russian federation to start a dialogue on the development of a separate action plan for the economic and social development of the kaliningrad region.
mr president, commissioner, ukraine is being born in our eyes and in the eyes of russia. those eyes see differently, and that's why there's a hole in the summit communiqué. it is complemented by european open assessments. there's a major development in ukraine. a nation of citizens is born, which is so lacking in russia. this is ukraine's hour, but as our documents say, russia has a great responsibility, i think the greatest. its parliamentary speaker has declared that ukraine has only two alternatives - either state division or bloodshed. the russian president seems to be in favor of the idea of calling all elections anew, thus eliminating the opposition leader. if the outgoing ukrainian president heeds such advice and decrees not a second round of elections but a new one, russia will also be responsible for the consequences. it would be a provocation to hundreds of thousands of people who could lose their peaceful patience and civic discipline. if they go to occupy the presidential palace, as happened in georgia, they may be met by the gunfire of the foreign army. the european parliament or the european commission - here i am addressing mrs ferrera valgner - could officially question the russian government or any representation or correct moscow press reports that russian special forces have been brought to kiev and re-equipped in ukrainian uniforms. given this extreme perspective, it's hard to understand the growing sympathy that the russian president, who has engaged so unnecessarily, cannot lose. we in lithuania heard it 14 years ago, when many in the west were sorry for mikhail gorbachev. it was a bad influence on the kremlin, and it lost a lot more. at this point, the policy of rebuilding the russian empire has already failed in ukraine, although president putin has not yet failed in the world. he has two alternatives: either to recognize the right of ukrainians to have their own government and a democratic state, or to shed blood and remain on bloody hands like gorbachev. president putin's friends should speak directly to him, not through mr. kuchma, and unanimously advise him to choose option one. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr. president. first of all, i would like to say that our colleague camiel eurlings has done a very good job and deserves our recognition and thanks. analysis of mr eurlings' report makes it clear that turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria today, i.e. it is not able to pass the exams that those member states of the european union that joined the club after 1993 had to pass, i.e. after the copenhagen criteria were formulated. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 december, called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the turkish authorities. it is only necessary to recall george orwell's "animal farm", an arrangement in which everyone is equal, but some are more equal, and, to put it simply, we are thus proposing a double standard of morality for the further development of the european union. in large part, this is because a country that aspires to full membership in the european union but does not meet the requirements has a powerful advocate. or are we prepared to review, revise the copenhagen criteria, to lower the cartel of requirements? today turkey, tomorrow another eurasian state, like russia? the economic aspect of turkey's membership of the european union is also important. the former eu internal market commissioner warned that the eu would collapse if it did not reform its agricultural and regional policies. the european union's capacity to absorb new members and to meet the economic challenges of enlargement is endless. the expansion of the european union to an extensive extent certainly has its limits, and it would be wiser to consolidate the successes of the recent enlargement of the european union, to assess the economic results of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union, and to forecast the economic successes of ukraine and moldova's european aspirations, which should be our priorities. i therefore believe that the european union could be in the best interest of a privileged partnership with turkey.
mr president, let me raise a few issues from the perspective of a new member state. first, the new financial framework should be driven by the political priorities of the enlarged union and the principle of solidarity among the member states. second, the own-resources ceiling should be established at a level that would assure the successful integration of the new member states in the union and take account of commitments entered into during the accession negotiations. third, it is my firm belief that we, the european parliament, have to support high allocations for the lisbon strategy measures from the commission's budget. a clear mechanism securing a certain share of funds for each member state should be designed for funding this priority. i should also like to point out that the funding of the implementation of the lisbon strategy objectives should not be at the expense of eu cohesion policy. the assistance planned for the implementation of the lisbon strategy objectives should add to, rather than replace, the assistance under the cohesion policy, as competitiveness and cohesion are mutually reinforcing. fourth, from the point of view of less-developed economies in the eu, the level of financial assistance should be proportional to countries' current economic level of development. in any case the assistance rate per capita should not be higher in the more prosperous member states than in the less-developed ones. fifth, we should also consider that the limitation of structural assistance through the capping rule, if it is applied in the next programming period, could, in some cases, slow down the social and economic convergence of the least-developed member states, by directing cohesion policy resources to more developed member states and regions. last but not least, the commission rightly pointed out that an enlarged eu requires more money. it is impossible to overcome the challenges of an enlarged and ever-enlarging europe with less money.
mr president, i just wanted to say that according to my reason – if not to the rules of procedure – i am against the secret ballot and ask colleagues from my group – or some of them at least – to withdraw their signatures. (applause from the left)
