ladies and gentlemen. i am from latvia and it is a great honour for me to appear here today before the european parliament, as a fully fledged representative of my country. we are very pleased that europe is becoming ever more united, that borders and regulations that hinder our cooperation and the full participation of eastern europe in the european union are disappearing. i represent the russian-speaking minority of latvia, which makes up about 40% of the country's population. it is a great pleasure for me to announce to you today that russians too are now part of a united europe and i want to emphasize that this is a direct result of enlargement. on 1 may, tens of thousands of russian-speaking residents of latvia participants in a rally entrusted me to greet you and expressed a real hope that the european union will develop not only as a union of states and economies, but will also become a real union of the peoples who live in the european union and that the european union will devote more attention not only to the economic aspects but also to such spheres as human rights. in conclusion i would like to wish for effective cooperation for all of us, for the good of our common europe.
(lv) ladies and gentlemen. thank you for your congratulations, but the celebrations are over and we in latvia are used to working in a businesslike way, without illusions. there's a lot of talk here of how the second world war has come to an end. i would only like to remind you here that it is not over for everyone and especially not for our neighbors. between the baltic and the black sea we have, first of all, the belarusians, ukrainians, moldovans and georgians as our neighbours. we congratulate the romanians, who will be in the european union in a couple of years, but why not the moldovans? only because the molotov-ribbentrop pact allowed soviet forces to occupy part of romania and because these forces remained in moldova and refused to withdraw. we are forced to watch, we are doing something and we in the baltic states will not be content to watch television in comfort as mothers in moldova are forced to trade in their own kidneys to feed their starving children. will the black sea be a black hole where the drug and arms traders' crossroads meet, or will we be able to change this situation? belarus is completely terrorised by the communists. in georgia russian forces are refusing to withdraw and are supporting separatists. what is the situation in our neighbouring country, russia? it has been best described by the former member of the duma and noted businessman, konstantin borovoy. he says that kgb men are currently in charge in russia, which is almost the same as if gestapo men were in power in germany and were saying that everything is much improved and changed. friendship with the west is a sham and the provocations in the baltic countries will continue, to be used as a bargaining chip in a deal with the west on the issue of chechnya. madam president, that is a precise description of what our neighbours in a neighbouring state have been given by a member of the state duma. as long as we are aware that some countries are continuing to profit from the results of the molotov-ribbentrop pact, we will, of course, be able to do something. in conclusion, before we dream about the european union's borders with iraq, let us put our closer neighbours in order.
(lv) looking at the half empty benches one can conclude that many of us are still under the influence of the exciting events of enlargement, but work must continue. the largest enlargement in the history of the european union has provoked extensive debates about the need to reform the european union, with the most significant manifestation of these efforts being the preparation and discussion of the draft european union constitution. there is less thought and talk as to how the socio-economic effects of european union enlargement can be turned into a success for the fifteen-member european union, as well as the new states. the european union has been joined by countries with fundamentally different levels of economic, and consequently also social, development. this means that enlargement demands a new understanding of ways to ensure the socio-economic growth of the european union. i will remind you that the common market of the european union was created with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of its members and is based on four fundamental freedoms. almost all the 15 member states of the european union, except the united kingdom, ireland and sweden, the latter with an admirable parliamentary vote against what the government was offering, have introduced a transitional period for the free movement of workers from the new member states. shortly before the time when the basis for the remaining three came into force, there were ever more forceful voices talking about tax dumping, unfair tax competition, talking about the need for tax harmonization, even though the european convention had recently rejected this idea. there are fears about the possible movement of capital towards the new member states, to be followed by a possible transfer of jobs in an eastward direction. economists will never cease debating the right level of taxation. as far as i know, up to now only austria has reacted appropriately to the possible flight of jobs, by planning to lower its corporate tax level. ireland's taxation policy has made it especially attractive to investment from multinational companies (as an example). in my opinion the decisions by sweden, the united kingdom, ireland and austria show a healthy approach to the challenges presented by european union enlargement. only in this way will the expansion of the european union unleash unique opportunities for the unification of europe and more quickly resolve the stresses of domestic policy in the member states. we must look at things realistically the support for the new states from the european union's common funds, which i value very highly, no matter how well targeted and endowed with no matter how much of a multiplying effect, is insufficient to rapidly overcome the existing socio-economic differences between the existing member states. the enlargement of the european union ... (the president cut off the speaker)
(lv) latvia is proud to be a full member of the european union's family of nations and that we can work together in a unified way for the good of all of europe. we have been working toward this goal for fifteen years. our achievements are significant, creating and developing an economy and a social policy. we have also encountered various problems, however, which are becoming especially relevant in the context of the common european economy and social policy. one of these problems is the demographic crisis, which affects all of europe. statistics clearly show that all over europe a so-called demographic winter has set in and the question naturally follows: for whom, then, are we creating and building this beautiful, unified and prosperous europe? there is no simple solution to this issue and it is not merely bound up with economic and social policy, because it is also a question of values. even the best conceived and most balanced employment policy, thorough social protection and a system of pensions, sexual equality and social benefits will not be perfect unless it is grounded in the basic values of society on ethical and moral norms. only a harmonious and sound family is able to ensure that these social values are inculcated in every resident, in every child. therefore the interests of the family must be taken into account, and they must be the driving force of all economic and social policy initiatives. latvia is aware of the threats posed by the demographic crisis and therefore the issues of family and child welfare have now been put forward as the latvian government's priorities. we call on europe to take similar action, because only then will we be able to tackle the social problems that threaten all of europe, which are related to the demographic crisis and the inevitable ageing of the population and the growth in the economic burden on the working population. economic and social welfare is not conceivable without the welfare of families all over europe, because the welfare of the child is dependent on the welfare of the family and that is the basis of a strong, secure and prosperous europe. therefore today i want to call on you, in debating every issue of economic and social policy, to devote particular attention to the basic value and the foundation of society - the family.
(lv) like the speakers before me, i am delighted to be speaking here for the first time. i will not be making any particular reference to our national situation in latvia, nor will i talk about minorities there will be time for that on other occasions but about europe as a whole. freedom without security is not conceivable, as we have already heard, but the threats to freedom today are of a quite different nature to what they were in the recent past. if the threat to freedom previously came mainly from other countries, nowadays that is no longer the case in europe. the european union itself is proof of this. the threat to freedom comes from within our country violence is increasing, organized crime, terrorism and corruption are the most direct threats to freedom, to various human rights. for a long time now the criminal world has not recognised borders, so cooperation between various security bodies in the european union, as well as beyond its borders, is especially important. the european parliament must do everything in its power to ensure this cooperation. the sense of menace to the individual is today no longer slight. we must not allow a situation where fear is the defining factor in people's thought and action, where we would be prepared to yield, to compromise with those who do not respect us, because of fear. in order to guarantee human freedoms, sacrifices must be borne. only by certain curbs on freedom can security be achieved. if, in our discussions of how far freedom ought to be restricted for the sake of security, we keep our ideals in mind and these discussions should never end then we will be on the right path.
(lv) the european union and today i finally have the right to say our union has been transformed from an economic union into what we call a union based on values. the increasing diversity of cultures, languages and religions is undoubtedly one of those basic values. human rights are universal and they must be extended to everyone without any discrimination on the grounds of sex, age, material status, ethnic origin, mother tongue or citizenship. the rights of national minorities are an inalienable component of fundamental rights. let us be honest, serious problems in this sphere remain in both the old and the new member states, including my own country, latvia. these issues were included in the copenhagen criteria for accession. experience will show how successfully these criteria are met, but what will happen next? i believe that we must move on from the rhetoric of human rights to a permanent and practical involvement, we must achieve the adoption of mechanisms for monitoring legally binding statutes and their implementation. a very important step in this direction has already been taken. it has already been mentioned today that the draft constitution included a charter of fundamental rights and that the draft constitution makes reference to minority rights. in particular the adoption of a directive on racial equality must be noted. these, however, are just the first steps. i am looking at the theme of our discussion today, "freedom and security for union citizens". within the area of european freedom and security, freedom, security and equality must be provided for all even refugees, immigrants and guest workers. we have a big job ahead of us. i believe that we, the elected representatives of europeans, in cooperation with other european organisations, primarily the council of europe, will be able to successfully resolve this extremely important challenge.
thank you, chairman. i want to thank teeshock [the prime minister of ireland] and his team for what they've done. the result provides a basis for a complete rejection of the concerns raised before the start of the irish presidency that irish time would be wasted on matters of importance to the european union. in fact, the irish presidency has proved so successful that it raises doubts about the inefficiency attributed to the rotating presidencies of the european union. pessimism about the prospects of adopting a draft constitution for the european union was widespread during the irish presidency. i can now say with full confidence as a member of the european union convention that the version approved by the irish presidency is more viable than what we were able to agree in the convention. in this context, the italian presidency's achievements must not be overlooked. i think that the candidate for president of the european commission, who is a supporter of the market economy, can be considered a success right now. i hope that the nominee will also have the support of parliament. as a representative of the european union's eastern border country, i have earned respect for the presidency's position in shaping the eu-russia relationship, which is rooted in realism. this is in favourable contrast to the positions which unfortunately are very often found in the european union's relations with russia. i hope that the quality of the irish presidency will be a benchmark and create a favourable spirit of competition for those who work for the european union. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the presidency of the council for the well-prepared programme of action for the next six months. however, i would like to make a few suggestions. first, it is true that the european union, which has been enlarged by 10 new member states, is stronger than ever globally, and particularly in areas such as trade policy and development coordination. we therefore expect the dutch presidency, when it conducts and perhaps even concludes the negotiations on russia's accession to the world trade organisation, to ensure that russia abolishes the discriminatory tariff policy on freight transport, especially by rail, which russia continues to apply to latvia, a member of the european union. secondly, the presidency's desire to ensure security of energy supply in a liberalised market is welcome, and the council therefore wishes to intensify negotiations with russia on the interoperability of electricity and natural gas transmission. however, it should be borne in mind that the experience of latvia shows cooperation with the supply of russian energy resources - unfortunately, russia does not always follow the principles dictated by the market. third, the netherlands government rightly draws on the considerable experience it has gained in the field of human rights in its capacity as head of the edps. you think that would allow you to have a dialogue with russia and resolve conflict situations. however, we would like to inform you that, despite the fact that latvia has implemented all the recommendations of the edps in due time, this does not prevent russia from continuing to put pressure on latvia and estonia on what seem to be human rights issues with a completely different goal - to legalize the consequences of the occupation. be smart about this, and good luck with the dutch presidency.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! in the cross-cutting issues of our political group, mr barroso has shown himself to be a seasoned and practical politician, and we decided to support his candidacy particularly because mr barroso spoke of the european union as a union of nations. however, mr barroso diplomatically avoided answering the question about his position on future relations with russia. i would like to emphasise that the internationally important task is to achieve international recognition and condemnation of the facts of the occupation of the baltic states, including latvia, especially by russia as the heir to the ussr. this would undeniably make the relations between the european union and russia, including with the european commission, less hypocritical - one night talking about vodka and caviar, the next morning saying that russia has denied the european union access to its food markets. acknowledging this reality would be a good basis for genuinely constructive cooperation in the future. as regards the economic aspect, i would stress that when drawing up the budget, a greater proportion of the funds should be devoted to the economic development of the new member states, also through the structural funds, because the differences between the levels of the old and the new member states are still too great. the use of fiscal weights, which are the responsibility of the member states, and of the structural funds for infrastructure, poverty eradication and economic development should be used to accelerate development. mr. barroso, we look forward to your creative approach to these important issues. thank you.
members of the european parliament! mr. barrow! listening to you, i thought it was sympathetic that you mentioned the importance of the justice and security package. so i'm going to focus on the issues of european security in this speech. mr barroso, you will have to pay due attention to the fact that european security policy is unfortunately moving too slowly towards its objective. europe's real military and crisis management capabilities remain inadequate. it's important for you to know that. you don't have to be convinced that the asymmetric and transnational threats of the 21st century are not imagined but real. whatever we may hear here about the coalition action in iraq, remember that before european military capabilities and security instruments have achieved the necessary effectiveness, it is important to maintain the existing euro-atlantic link by developing european cooperation with nato. the state must still ensure that it allocates adequate resources to the needs of european security. ensure effective information exchange and trust between countries to guarantee timely european counter-terrorism measures. thank you for your attention. good luck with that.
ladies and gentlemen, the cold war is over, the soviet union is no more, but the commission's report and the debate in the european parliament are clear evidence that the belarusian people are still behind the iron curtain. this is a paradox! belarus has remained a vestige of the soviet empire, its relapse, its model. immediately, the entire democratic world has received lukashenko's challenge. there's a referendum on how to continue the dictatorship. we can predict the success of the dictatorship because the democratic opposition is unlawfully silenced within the prison walls. let's remember that the president of belarus has been seen as a partner of the iraqi regime and hussein. and all this is happening on the borders of democratic europe. as a result, it is not only a threat to the white helmets themselves, but also to the democracies around them. why is belarus' partner russia not worried about this? why does it feel so comfortable? did shirax and schrader discuss this problem with putin in sochi? in this situation, the belarusian democrats can only rely on the free european parliamentarians, their willingness to support both morally and financially both the belarusians and, of course, the european commission. it's our duty!
you guys! september in beslan shocked the world with its brutality and inhumanity. there are no words to describe the feelings that come from the murder of children. there is no justification for this act of terror. at the same time, i would like to stress that this event calls for political action by the authorities to prevent similar situations in the future, in order to eliminate the causes of terrorism. it's hard to do. it is much easier to irresponsibly announce preemptive strikes or to simply try to consolidate authoritarian power. the russian president should reduce the hatred between the different nationalities of russia, which was created by tsarism, continued by stalinism and which has not been eliminated yet. recently, moscow militiamen beat up a former cosmonaut for having a chechen-like last name. it is important for president putin to care about every citizen of his country - not just russians, but other nationalities as well - and to use his enormous power to build peace and harmony.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. yesterday, we observed a moment of silence in memory of those who died in beslan. after today's talk, we're going to see a number of different conceptual approaches to evaluating what happened. i will briefly state my personal judgment. if the thesis that 'the end justifies the means' is rejected, then the situation created by the violent means must not be used to raise the question of the desired end. otherwise, terrorists conclude that their actions are productive. the right of peoples to self-determination, which is universally respected, must not be questioned in connection with acts of terrorism. and i would also like to see not double standards but common standards within the european union in relation to events in iraq, russia, turkey, indonesia and other countries. there is no such thing as a separate dog terrorism, chechen terrorism or kurdish terrorism. it is an act of violence based on the same principles and punishable by law, regardless of the perpetrator, the origin and the territory of the act.
proposals for reform of the stability and growth pact would be worth discussing, although the proposed amendments to the pact would require serious consideration. however, in the current situation, i do not think that a revision of the pact is admissible, as some countries are chronically not complying with the existing pact criteria and a growing number of countries may not comply in the future. and inadequate penalties cannot be used as an argument for countries to comply with budgetary and fiscal discipline. the proposed reforms send a dangerous signal to market forces that they are not in a position to manage the situation in the long term. i cannot therefore support the proposed reforms to the pact, in particular those relating to the level of the budget deficit that is anchoring the pact and the periods for the elimination of excessive deficits that differ between countries. budget and fiscal policy are areas of policy responsibility with particular sensitivity. any exceptions in these matters will inevitably tend to become endless. the concern is the proposed prolonged period of slow growth, which essentially leaves indefinite time for politicians who are unable or unwilling to undertake structural reforms in their country. easing the conditions will not motivate politicians to undertake unpopular reforms. the proposed country-specific adjustment path to the excessive deficit is also of particular concern. this specific path of adaptation may be not only country-specific but also significantly different, as transparency on these issues is difficult to achieve. this led to a loss of confidence in the pact as a whole.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. my first speech here in this house five years ago as a member of the european commission was, of course, on the 2000 budget. this was a budget for only 15 member states, for a union of only 375 million people. the budget for the first time decided on pre-accession aid, and from this pre-accession aid funds were allocated to six countries with which negotiations were being held. the last speech i am expected to make in this house will be on the first budget for a european union of 25 member states. this is a historic change that we have achieved in these five years. there is not a day that goes by that i am not very happy that we have succeeded in overcoming the division of europe and that here in brussels and strasbourg we can now make policy for a union of 450 million people. what a grand development! the european budget has also become increasingly important, an important instrument of european policy. it must therefore be sound, develop within a reliable framework, be transparent and be managed efficiently. i am therefore pleased that in these five years we have succeeded in reforming and modernising the whole budgetary procedure. this applies both to the establishment of the budget, which is now more political, and to the budgetary breakdown of activity-related budgeting. the budget has also become more political. we have a new financial regulation and we have a reformed accounting system. all these were major achievements, and they were achievements of all the institutions together, of parliament, the commission, the council and also the court of auditors. i would like to thank very, very warmly for this great joint effort, and of course especially the members of the committee on budgets, the committee on budgetary control and also the members of the council's committee on budgets for the very efficient cooperation. it was also a great achievement for the committee on budgets to concentrate, process and prioritise the many amendments proposed by its colleagues for the 2005 budget. i would like to compliment the rapporteur, mr garriga. you have prepared this report with the confidence of a very experienced budgetary officer and have dealt with the many amendments. i congratulate you on that. i also congratulate the new chairman of the committee on budgets. it is always very difficult to take on such an important and difficult task in the middle of the budgetary procedure. you also chair a very good committee with very good members. the budgets of recent years have been the lowest budgets in the recent budgetary history of the european union. i am very proud of this as the commissioner for the budget, because it shows that we are all working strictly on the principle of budgetary discipline. but the relative budget reductions in recent years were primarily intended to make room for the assumption of new tasks, namely, in particular, the assumption of expenditure which will and should then flow to the new member states. this is what was envisaged in agenda 2000, in other words in the present financial perspective. accordingly, the financial perspective foresees that the 2005 budget may have a ceiling of eur 119 billion in commitment appropriations, corresponding to 1.14% of the eu-15's gross national income. we must always bear this in mind when we talk about the future financial perspective. all the institutions - the council, parliament and the commission - say that we need at least eur 116 billion in commitment appropriations for the 2005 budget. the differences in commitment appropriations between the proposals of the three institutions are very small. why would you do that? because of course the margin is also very limited, because much has been set out in agenda 2000 and because much has been set out in the accession treaties. there is a big difference in the estimate of the actual volume of expenditure, the volume of payments, next year. well, that depends, of course, on what you estimate the number of hits. we must take seriously the fact that if we decide to commit appropriations in one year, this will lead to corresponding expenditure in subsequent years. the commission cannot therefore support the reduction proposed by the council. we are grateful to parliament for saying that at least these funds we have proposed must be reinstated. you're suggesting more than that. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. all those concerned have made a concerted effort in recent years to improve implementation. we've got it now! we have succeeded in getting the funds to be used much more efficiently this year than in the past. that is why we have already requested an additional payment of eur 2 billion for the structural funds this year, because of the demand from the member states. the implementation of the new rules will therefore be very successful next year. i shall now turn to the question of staff, administrative expenditure. the commission is requesting the second tranche of staff increase in order to cope with the increased responsibilities of an enlarged union. mrs jensen pointed out that the council is allowing itself a much greater increase in administrative expenditure than it is allowing the other institutions. mrs jensen, i would also like to congratulate you on your work. it is a very comprehensive task to be the rapporteur for all the other institutions. i thank parliament for accepting the 700 posts requested on behalf of the commission. but you can imagine that i'm not as thrilled about it as you are about 150 jobs being put into the reserve. it is of course a very important duty of parliament to keep a constant watch on what is being done with these posts and whether they are being used in the right priorities. but i would like to call for conditions to be laid down for the release of the reserve so that they can be met in the future. because we know that the whole recruitment process takes time, of course. i would also like to thank the prodi commission for the fact that parliament has always given us the increase in posts we have requested, because you know, of course, that you cannot meet increasing expectations unless you have the resources to do so. during all these years, the budgetary situation has been under the greatest pressure in the field of foreign policy, because of world events and also because the european union has actually started to take on more joint responsibility. the funds must be provided for this. this was partly financed by the flexibility reserve. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a very good one. now, according to the letter of amendment from the commission which you have received for the 2005 budget, we are freeing up funds in the external budget, in the area of external policy, by proposing that in future the funds for croatia be financed from category 7, because accession negotiations with croatia are due to start next year. we have also proposed that the category of pre-accession aid should finance economic policy aid to the turkish cypriot community. the council has now - and this is welcome - decided to deal with the financial package in a special way. i ask the house to consider this proposal with the greatest urgency and to support the aid we propose for the turkish cypriot part. the aim should also be to help both communities to finally reach a solution to the division of cyprus and to overcome the division of cyprus. the commission also proposes, for the 2005 budget, to extend the peace programme for northern ireland for two years, as requested by the council. this is also a sensible measure. but let me tell you something: in the last three points i have mentioned, the council has always been the party making the request, always for very good political reasons. i must remind you that the politically correct decisions taken at high summits must be followed by the corresponding budgetary decisions at the difficult budgetary level. the biggest increase in the 2005 budget compared with the current year will be in the agricultural budget. the agricultural budget will rise from 44 billion euros to 50 billion euros next year. there are good and important reasons for all this: firstly, direct payments to farmers in the new member states are entered in the budget for the first time. secondly, we have a comparatively higher exchange rate than we have had in the past. thirdly, we have the agricultural reform, as decided by the council, which has led to more spending, not less spending. the agricultural budget will thus total 0.48% of the gross national income of the member states next year and will represent almost 45% of the total european budget. this structure, with its great emphasis on agriculture, has a history, and there are good reasons for this. but we must still ask ourselves whether this structure is adequate to meet the challenges of the future or whether we do not need to set more different priorities for the future in the next financial perspective. one of the main priorities will of course be to achieve the lisbon objective. you have to appeal to everyone. this is the objective that has been set, it has been agreed by all. and either you take these goals that have been set seriously or you don't take them seriously. but if we take them seriously, then in the future more of the european budget must be available for such future investment areas as research, education, innovation. this is a very substantial challenge. if i look at the discussions that are taking place in the council between the member states, and see that the member states are advocating a future reduction of the budget to 1% of gross national income, in commitment appropriations, then that would mean that the absolute level we have for the 2005 budget would be maintained for the future. if agricultural expenditure in this area is safeguarded at the same time, this would mean that little will change in the structure in the future. but the european union will not be able to meet the tasks of the future, the challenge of the future, with a structure of the past, but it needs to change. you're going to have some very difficult negotiations ahead of you. there have been difficult negotiations in the past. but what we must be careful of is that the gap between what is promised to the european citizens and what is kept does not widen. because that creates frustration and it creates disappointment about europe. we are all working to ensure that this does not happen, but that the european budget has a structure that is appropriate to the tasks of the future. i wish the european parliament, the european council and the commission very wise decisions for the future, not only for the 2005 budget but especially for the decision on the next financial perspective. i hope that the cooperation between parliament and the commission in the budgetary field will continue to be as good as it has been for the past five years. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the etp-ed group advocates transparency and maximum efficiency in the use of the european union budget. the etp-ed group considers the approach of the european council, which, by reducing the expenditure of the other institutions of the european union by 1.5%, does not apply the same reduction to its own budget, to be unjustified. our group supports a system of austerity in administrative expenditure and supports the maximum use of the european union budget by eliminating unnecessary red tape and duplication of functions between the european union institutions. we believe that this approach should be applied to all the institutions of the european union, including the european council and the european parliament. the etp-ed group has therefore, for example, re-submitted a proposal to reduce the european parliament's expenditure below the traditional 20% threshold of total administrative expenditure. the enlargement of the european union naturally leads to an increase in the budgetary expenditure of the european union. the etp-ed group supports the allocation of the necessary funds to successfully meet the needs of the enlargement of the european union. this also applies to administrative expenditure and new staff posts. however, the etp-ed group considers that the creation of new posts is only permissible if a clear and detailed justification for the need for posts has been provided. the same principle shall apply to supplementary budgetary requests linked to the introduction of new financial and staff regulations in the european union. the share of administrative expenditure in total expenditure is one of the indicators used to assess the effectiveness of the policies implemented by the european union. tough and expensive administration reduces efficacy. our task, as well as that of all the other institutions of the european union, is to work towards improving the efficiency of the policies implemented by the european union. i call on my colleagues in the european parliament to support the epp-ed group's position in the votes on the 2005 budget of the other institutions of the european union and to remember that we too have a responsibility to make the most of the money of the taxpayers of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. between the two events, the elections in belarus for the parliament and the us presidential elections in ukraine are of equal importance to europe and the world, even though this neighbouring country is more democratic than belarus, of course, and not as influential as the united states. thanks to the knowledge and experience of the new member states' meps on these issues, the issues relating to ukraine were developed in particular during the first months of the work, underlining the importance of the new european neighbourhood as a strategic partner. in recent years, ukraine has developed a large and strong democratic opposition, but negative trends are observed in the field of media freedom and the use of the total administrative apparatus of the ruling elite, which dangerously affects the processes of democratization and the integrity of presidential elections. the legislation on elections is legally correct, but its enforcement is only binding on the opposition. but what is most disturbing is the attitude of the people themselves: everyone knows what is happening, but the violations are so widespread that society has become accustomed to them, and few people think that such things are illegal. additionally, the brainwashing of the public is financed by the billions invested in advertising by the oligarchs. the electoral law does provide for a ceiling on campaign expenditure, but there is no real control over candidate funds and political party finances. the outcome of these elections must be reflected clearly and effectively in the decisions of the european union, not only in terms of condemnation or support, but also in terms of specific strategies and financial matters. an eu-ukraine action plan under the new neighbourhood policy is currently being developed. as a member of the european parliament, i support the clarification and signing of the document only after the elections, when it will be fully clear whether the presidential elections in ukraine were democratic or whether the new government is being formed by democratic methods. we all need corruption-free and democratic neighbours so that businessmen can make more money in a free competition environment and our citizens can sleep better knowing that ukraine has not been duped by the big russian neighbour's running bear.
the events following the ukrainian parliamentary elections demonstrate to the democratic world that the ukrainian people reject the tendencies of several former soviet union states, which have been overrun by authoritarian or quasi-authoritarian regimes. the ukrainian people reject the belarus model that is a disgrace to europe and also the russian president's version of democracy. no matter how the election crisis is resolved, ukraine will never be the same again. the demand of the broad public for their rights mobilizes society not only in actions against the stolen election results, but also corruption, oligarchic capitalism, creates a clear understanding of the choice of ukraine's democratic future. following an invitation from the ukrainian parliament, i had the opportunity to follow the election of the president of ukraine. i unanimously agreed with the assessment of international observers that the elections were fraudulent. the ruling political-economic elite prevents the ukrainian people from democratically electing their president. disinformation about the opposition candidate coming from the government-controlled mass media directly correlates with the assessments of the russian president-controlled mass media. in eastern ukraine, it was the russian media that played a decisive role in inciting the public against the opposition. he was a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. this clearly shows russia's concern about the dangers of its policies in the region. the victory of democracy in ukraine threatens the stability of russia-sponsored belarus and the oblivion of moldova. the victory of democracy in ukraine is mobilizing the democrats in russia itself. the ukrainian society is defending its choice. the european union must make it clear that those who do not respect democratic principles and do not obey the law cannot be partners of the european union. they shall be subject to the same restrictions as those imposed on belarus. ukraine is a european country and the people on the streets of ukraine have shown that the absolute majority of them have chosen democracy and the rule of law. these are the concepts that unite the member states of the european union. ukraine has become the focus of world attention. it must be brought to the attention of the european union. ukraine must be given the opportunity to join the european union. the commission has also provided the ukrainian authorities with information on the implementation of the eu's 'special needs' programme. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, it's good to hear that in this room today, we're pretty much united. not only the different political forces, but also the council and the commission. and yet i want to point out some truths that we should consider. the paradox is that we often see better what is far away than what is right next to us. i have to say, i was surprised that before the first round of elections in ukraine there were already a lot of signals about violations, about the inability of the opposition candidate to speak. we didn't react, and it wasn't until this glaring injustice showed up in the second round that we all got activated. that's good too. the european union's policy has never been and will never be aggressive, but the european union is not and cannot be a mere discussion club offering advice. the european union is a sufficiently strong and robust political union and therefore the european union must demonstrate strong and determined political will at all levels - to the council, to the commission and to the parliament. the european union cannot therefore simply point to fraud in the ukrainian elections. we cannot pretend that we do not see the forces behind the election fraud in ukraine. these forces understand only very specific and rigid policies and actions. otherwise, it's tennis on one side of the court and rugby on the other. i am not just thinking of the european union and russia, the west and the east. i know russia very well and i know that there are also a lot of democratic and intelligent people there. and yet the dominant trend is anti-democratic and revenge-seeking. we must therefore support democracy in ukraine, analyse the situation and predict the future. and so i joined my colleague elmar brok in saying that the council and the commission must also react very timely and very decisively.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to focus on the regional policy aspect in the context of the forthcoming financial perspective. the first thing that raises questions is why the prodi commission proposal gives regional policy the status of a sub-priority rather than a priority as it has been so far. it is possible that this is to make less transparent the fact that the amount of money allocated to regional policy in the prodi commission proposal in relation to the gross domestic product of the european union is decreasing every year. the regional policy share of the total budget of the european union for the next financial perspective is at roughly the same level as it was until now. with the accession of 10 new member states to the european union and the accession of romania and bulgaria in 2007, the amount of funds available for regional policy should be increased. the question that would therefore be important to hear from the european council of ministers is whether the european council of ministers considers it possible to restore regional policy to priority status and whether the european council of ministers considers the amount of funding proposed in the prodi commission proposal for european regional policy to be sufficient.
, on behalf of the group.– mr president, the verts/ale group is of the opinion that the commission proposal to introduce two biometric identifiers lacks crucial information on important points such as costs, proportionality, added value and security. the commission has not yet provided parliament with the requested information on the scope and seriousness of the problem of false documents, the results of previous improvements in document security and the error rate of the various biometric options, in particular the lack of reliability of fingerprints, the intrusive nature of their use and the risk of misuse. yesterday the chairman of the article 29 data protection working party sent a letter to the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in which he pointed out that the working party does not have enough information on which tests have been conducted, what their outcomes were, or on which basis the council decision had been taken. therefore the working party expressed its reservations as to the use of biometric procedures that have not proved efficient, in particular the compulsory use of biometric features such as fingerprints. for the verts/ale group, it is clear that the introduction of two biometric identifiers can represent a threat to security through risks of abuse, technological flaws and lack of transparency and data protection. we are therefore suggesting that only one biometric identifier be integrated, namely a digital photograph in visas, residence permits and passports.
mr president, as has been mentioned, the majority of human rights activists in turkey – leyla zana among them – are of the opinion that a positive decision on the turkish application to join the eu will contribute to an improvement in turkish policy on ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. they have good reasons for saying this. human rights activists in latvia were of the same opinion when discussions on latvia's candidacy for membership of the eu were held. unfortunately, latvian human rights activists are now highly disillusioned. it is true that under pressure from the european institutions some changes were made in legislation concerning problems essential for minorities. however, these changes were cosmetic. for example, improvements to the law on languages were intended to benefit only one particular linguistic minority: english-speaking businessmen. we see the same urgent cosmetic steps taking place in turkey. for example, the turkish government has allowed private language centres to open, offering courses in kurdish, romanian and other tongues. a private language centre is something essentially different from what we would recognise as a school – a term used in mr eurlings' report. my country, latvia, became a member state of the eu, in spite of the fact that the latvian authorities did not recognise the rights of linguistic minorities. it was a mistake for eu institutions not to use latvia's accession process to promote the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria. this history must not be repeated in the case of turkish accession. we hope that in 15 years turkey will fulfil the political criteria completely. we call on the commission to use every opportunity to urge the turkish government to recognise the kurdish minority in the country and to create the conditions necessary for this minority to be respected and protected.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to turn now to the question of the budget allocated to the common foreign and security policy. just a few decades ago, the 21st century was predicted to be a time of increased risk and danger. against this background, the european union's desire to promote stability not only in europe but also to have a greater impact on the wider global security process is of great importance. this is evidenced by the european union's declared willingness and growing capacity to engage in conflict prevention and crisis management activities. the number of civilian crisis management operations is expected to double in the near future. there are even discussions among experts about possible operations in iraq, sudan and congo. it is equally important to maintain a stable situation in the european union's neighbourhood. georgia, for example, is a case in point. let us not forget that the threat of terrorism within the european union is a real possibility. measures against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction remain important. the institutional capacity at european crisis management level needs to be strengthened. it is therefore clear that the activities of the european union's common external security policy have an inevitable tendency to expand. however, the amount of money allocated to these measures in the 2005 budget raises concerns about the discrepancy between europe's political ambitions and the financial resources available to achieve them. the lack of funds for the successful implementation of the european security strategy is often discussed among the specialists of the relevant institution. it is, of course, gratifying that the european parliament has allocated 10 million more in the second reading than in the first reading for the cfsp. and yet even then, it is not clear why the budget committee of the parliament, at first reading, decided to allocate eur 10 million less for the coordination of such important objectives. unfortunately, the conciliation procedure had to be used to prevent this misguided approach by the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! the etp-ed group advocates transparency and maximum efficiency in the use of eu budget funds. the epp-ed group regrets that the majority of the european parliament has rejected our group's proposal to reduce the european parliament's expenditure below the traditional 20% threshold of total administrative expenditure. it should be noted that this year we will allocate approximately eur 150 million of unspent funds to the prepayment of next year's expenditure. this clearly demonstrates the soundness of the etp-ed group's proposal. for the other institutions, the european parliament had already assessed the supplementary budgetary requests of the eu institutions before the first reading and had supported those requests that were found to be justified at the first reading. it should be recalled that most of the additional budgetary requests of the eu institutions are related to the enlargement of the eu as well as to the introduction of new financial and personnel rules in the eu. therefore, at second reading, we essentially renewed the additional budgetary requests of the eu institutions, which had been supported by the european parliament but rejected by the european council of ministers. to ensure greater transparency and better use of eu budgetary resources, the european parliament is launching two new initiatives. first, we call on the european commission, when presenting its proposal for the annual draft eu budget, to provide information on vacancies and staff reorganisations during the year. this will allow the european parliament to better assess the merits of the request for new posts. secondly, in order to ensure a more efficient use of the eu budget in relation to the need for additional space, mainly in connection with eu enlargement, we call on all eu institutions to cooperate and allow their own space to be used by other institutions. this will allow the provision of the necessary space for the various meetings and other events without unnecessary additional expenditure on the construction or rental of the premises. and finally, a few words on regional policy. parliament welcomed the improvements in the structural funds in 2004 and expressed its misunderstanding of the ecofin position in reducing payment appropriations in 2005. the european parliament considers it necessary to pay the commitments provided for in the financial perspective in due time, without delaying payments to the financial perspective for the last year.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wish to make a personal declaration in accordance with the requirements of article 145. in view of the fact that there has been a serious interference by a member of the european parliament, i have asked the president of the european parliament to investigate the facts that have been deliberately disseminated in my country, latvia, about my activities here in the european parliament. these false statements were made by an employee of the secretariat of the green group. in publications in the mass media, he stated that my actions had caused such a commotion among the members of the european parliament that they had left the chamber in protest against me and my personal position. my accounts of my activities in the european parliament have been branded as lies by this person. madam president, none of these facts are true. i therefore call on the leadership of the european parliament to investigate this case and restore the truth about the workings of the european parliament. the work and duty of a member of the european parliament is to work in the interests of democracy, justice and development in europe as a whole. the same obligations apply to all employees, regardless of their political affiliation. the dissemination or acceptance of falsehoods not only undermines the rule of law, human rights and justice, but also discredits the european parliament and its members. this is not acceptable. i've asked to investigate this case.
