mr president, humbled and honoured at the privilege granted to me as the first mep from malta to address this assembly so soon after enlargement, i believe that the european constitution should emphasise a union of citizens just as much as a union of sovereign states – a union based on the value of 'personalism' and not of individualism. there is no viable alternative to a union of nation states, intertwined with a clear recognition of an unmistakable historical fact: europe's christian roots, values and heritage. without such heritage we would not have had the works of dante, petrarch, raphael, michelangelo and others all inspired by a christian leitmotif, or the labour of love and christian faith involved in building the cathedrals and churches of our european cities, including strasbourg. 'yes' to european laicism, but 'no' to secularisation. i shall continue in maltese.
madam president, in an interview in libération in 1992, the then president of the european commission, mr delors, said that we should not forget that in the year 2000 we shall be more than 12, maybe a little more than 20. there is a country that one forgets but it is very important as a symbol: malta. we must not displace europe too much towards the north whilst forgetting the south. that would risk losing our sensitivity to the mediterranean world, which is our world. and we should contemplate the dangers in the future for all of us. mr delors' statement made 12 years ago is still pertinent today insofar as the mediterranean confronts dangers that face us all. it is about this mediterranean world, in particular its southern and eastern perimeter, that i would like to share my thoughts with this assembly today. i believe it is an accepted fact that a major cause of strife in the middle east is that so far no solution has been found to the israeli-palestinian issue. for the arab world palestine is not just another issue affecting some arabs. it is an issue affecting an arab people. through the centuries we have witnessed, and sometimes caused, the sufferings of the people of israel. it would be a major political mistake on our part were we to ignore this reality, but it would be equally tragic if we were not also to bear in mind the plight of the palestinian people living as refugees in their own country, walled up in their own territory. the european union has a shared responsibility to bringing about in the region the change from an economy of strife to an economy of peace. it is here that strong political and diplomatic presence in the middle east on the part of the european union can give positive results to our neighbourhood policy. by promoting peace, prosperity and stability in the region, the european union will not only be contributing to the welfare and security of the region but also to its own security. insofar as north africa is concerned, things are moving ahead. the libya which is now emerging can be a very positive element for the central mediterranean. relations between the eu and the maghreb are also slowly but surely moving ahead positively. the agadir agreement can be a fundamental link, bringing us closer to our joint objective of a euro-med free-trade area by the year 2010. however, in the mediterranean we are facing an important choice and the necessity of taking certain decisions. there are some who look at the future and see the region as an area where a clash of civilisations is bound to take place. indeed, some may be moving towards self-fulfilling prophecies. the choice, if it can be called choice, is between a policy leading to a clash of civilisations and one promoting a dialogue of civilisations. we cannot afford to have in the mediterranean a great divide between the north and south. it would be geographically unnatural; it would economically harmful; it would be politically disastrous. if we are to realise peace in the mediterranean we need to start thinking mediterranean. for if this mediterranean of ours is to overcome its present divisive element, we have to build on our commonalities: common interests, common concerns, a common heritage. it is the new mediterranean where the eu can contribute towards removing those dangers for the future of us all. (applause)
mr president, after spending the past year as an observer in the european parliament it is indeed an honour that i can, for the first time, address this assembly following the formal accession of my country, malta. over the past year i have participated in a number of committees, primarily the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. i have followed many debates and also contributed to various topics, including tabling an amendment that was formally introduced by a fellow mep. this amendment to the third cohesion report was adopted in committee and then in plenary. it is a vibrant example of the opportunity that was given to the accession countries to participate in and influence decisions even prior to membership. this is also a clear instance of the welcoming attitude of members of this house towards an observer. i mentioned earlier the cohesion report. what better way is there to highlight the economic and social model of europe, the subject of this debate? the concept of providing a helping hand to regions and countries that are lagging behind other areas of the union is an excellent example of solidarity in practice, which forms such an essential part of the european union. if one were to ask what the essential characteristics of the european economic and social model are, one would definitely have to include this aspect of support for cohesion and sustainable development, with due consideration given to the quality of life of eu citizens. it is important to stimulate the economic growth of the eu so as to provide better jobs and a higher standard of living. however, it also important to focus on a distribution of income that is just and equitable. this is the first and probably last speech i will make in this parliament, as i have been nominated to the european court of auditors. i will not vote on this item tomorrow as i believe that one should not participate in decisions when one is directly involved in that same decision. i will end with a few words in maltese.
mr president, the current european economic and social model has unfortunately not brought about the desired results. the added impact of enlargement may also put further strain on the system and create new imbalances and unexpected changes in employment patterns and social cohesion. the scourge of unemployment and job instability within the european union still defies the many action plans and initiatives for economic and social reforms launched in the past. poverty is still with us and the traditional social security systems are threatened. add to this certain negative aspects of the impact of globalisation and the picture gets bleaker. there is no social stability and no real prosperity where there is unemployment, where there are imminent threats to existing jobs and competitiveness is gradually eroded due to macro-economic policies, fiscal measures and constraints that are not adapted to the existing situation on the ground. it must be said a priori that any corrective measures that have to be taken should in no way have any negative impact on existing levels of social protection. ideally in the future the european economic and social model needs to be more flexible in its application. the same applies to the european monetary and fiscal policies. ways have to be found of establishing how flexibility and fair competition can co-exist and how the social market economy will have less of the free market component and more of the social component. the enlarged european union presents a whole range of regional and subregional social economic scenarios. each has its own specificities and each is in need of its own tailor-made action plan to help attract investment, create jobs, maintain its competitive edge and attract new growth sectors, while ensuring social stability and sustainable growth levels. coming as i do from the smallest member state, which is an island state, i am very conscious that eu-wide economic and social policies applied indiscriminately on a 'one-size-fits-all' basis do not invariably bring about the desired results either in job creation or in a better quality of life for our citizens. this is why i strongly believe that, to be successful, the future eu economic and social model should have ingrained within it the possibility to be flexible and be applied in a tailor-made fashion to specific sites and situations, as well as being endowed with the necessary flexibility in its application to be effective under different socio-economic scenarios. only in this way can we really hope to see further job creation, better quality of life, more prosperity, better social cohesion and more stability within the future enlarged european union.
mr president, if the premise is that there cannot be security in europe without a stable mediterranean, and whilst recalling all the sterling work done by the commission in fostering and establishing a mediterranean doctrine, i should like to ask how the commission envisages establishing a less reactive but much more proactive approach to the thorny situation in the middle east. how will it go about establishing a real mediterranean policy, conscience and foreign policy for the european union?
president of the commission. mr maes, you have raised issues of fundamental importance, the first of which is zero tolerance. i can honestly say that for the first time in the history of the european institutions we have tackled the reform of our working methods in an organic and thorough manner, and i must really thank commissioner kinnock here. it is usually a job that nobody wants to do, precisely because for many years it only gives problems and no advantages; but the premises for zero tolerance are really in place. the rules we have are serious and i hope we are really able to respect them. the other two problems you have raised are of extraordinary importance and i would like to link them together. he 'll say: what does africa have to do with gender equality? you see, the other day the european commission met with the african union commission, and there were as many men as there were women. well, i have to say that i was a little embarrassed, because they gave us an extraordinary lesson in the ability to interpret time. turning now to the mediterranean, i would say that mediterranean policy is a fundamental part of what i have called the circle of friends. let us remember that a great deal of resources must be devoted to it in the next legislature. i hope that the mediterranean foundation and the bank will also be approved immediately, but the problem of peace is at stake. the border that is being drawn at the moment is precisely that between different cultures, a border that we must break down. so, economic dialogue with the bank, cultural dialogue with the foundation, the great prospect of close relations and the circle of friends with the southern mediterranean. these days i believe that another step forward has been taken with rigor, with seriousness in relations with libya; it was not done out of demagogy but precisely because we must create a zone of peace in the mediterranean. no one like you living in the middle can understand what the situation is, but it's essential for our future.
(mt) commissioners, i am aware of the fact that you will be carrying on your shoulders great responsibilities, which are to some extent controlled by this parliament, but ultimately, it is your decisions, accepted by the council, that count. you must remember that you are representing each and every one of the millions of citizens in this united europe. you are facing great challenges: the creation of employment, social security, the inclusion of those who are marginalized, the creation of wealth for the growth of the economy and prosperity. i know there's a lot to be done. we know that you have brilliant technocrats working with you, but you must never lose sight of the political aspect. there are wise politicians who are sensitive to the needs of the people and these reports and discussions reflect the concerns of the citizens most in need.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. this representation should only be complementary to the union and not serve to divide the union, for it means that the commission as a whole will be aware of the social and economic interests of each country and will act with flexibility where necessary. it is certainly not in the european spirit to take measures without considering the consequences for certain social sectors. i think the commissioners recognise the importance of flexibility when certain measures may have negative consequences for families who live a somewhat different life because of economic and social constraints in the region concerned. i come from a small country which is also an island in the mediterranean, and that is the background to my speech. however, we also know that flexibility is not only necessary in relation to small countries. even large countries have been in situations where a degree of flexibility was needed to meet the common objectives of the eu. in conclusion, i would say that the diversity of the european union is a positive thing, but it is the same diversity that creates the need for flexibility. i am sure that all the commissioners are aware of this and that for the common good of europe they will be flexible in order to reassure the european citizens that the commission is not a threat but is actually there to protect them.
i begin by congratulating mr barroso on his appointment. it is a great privilege for me to address this parliament as one of the members from malta - the smallest member state of the european union - a country which, despite being the smallest, has already witnessed its european and mediterranean vocation throughout its millennial history, and is now ready to continue contributing as a member of the european union. it is just as much an honour for me to speak in this institution in my native language - maltese - which is the first official language of the european union with semitic roots. i have no doubt that maltese and gozitan people feel proud to hear the maltese language in this institution. now that the eu has brought ten new countries into it, one of our top priorities must be to make this enlargement a success and to turn it into fruit that everyone can see and enjoy. it would be a mistake to think that because growth has now taken place, everything will fall into place on its own. no, i did not. it takes a lot of work, and in particular a lot of work on the part of the european commission, for people to understand what is happening and how to get the most out of a partnership. how can people see opportunities and seize them if they do not yet fully understand what the european union means and how it can affect their lives? and people expect us to deliver concrete results. expect the creation of new jobs; also expect a higher standard of living. and above all, we need to talk to them and be closer to them. it is a great challenge, and we have a great responsibility, both as parliamentarians and in particular as the european commission over the next five years. a great challenge, but one that i am convinced that together we can overcome. and so i hope, mr barroso, that you will have great confidence in this house tomorrow.
mr president, analysis of mr barroso's suitability has focused on three particular issues. the main criticisms levelled against you, mr barroso, relate to your attitude to the war in iraq, the fact that you are a compromise candidate and, as far as your policies are concerned, references to your being on the right although you say that you are in the centre. you are being put through this procedure as though you are presumed guilty, not innocent. there is a lot of prejudice over the policies you put forward in portugal and because of your political convictions. if we have to vote for a president, we have to vote on certain principles. we would like to see four things: respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law; the ability to make europe a global player while at the same time respecting the different identities of the nations; the ability to create wealth; and the ability to distribute this wealth socially. we have to decide on the basis of these points whether or not you are the right candidate.
our role as representatives of our people in our country and in the european nations cannot and should not stop at the borders of the european union. we must look beyond this and not see ourselves as a fortress whose walls keep outsiders at a distance, but rather as a steering tower towards the values that serve us, mainly that of solidarity and democracy. it is in this spirit that we should treat the situation in other brotherly countries such as belarus. we do so without claiming to know everything or to know certain things better than others. however, it can be said that in all the countries that have come after them, we have at one time or another experienced times that were not very good for our democracy. it is in this way of the people who have been tested that i think we should make this appeal - an appeal to the authorities of the country to show full respect for the rights of association and the basic principles of democracy. we express our utmost solidarity with the belarusian labour party and the national front. this is not acceptable, what the government is doing to them, for today's society. our appeal should be one of goodwill. i am convinced, as i think many of you are, that in every organization in every country there are people of good will who know right from wrong. i call on these people, especially within the belarusian authorities and within the government to work and work with every means they have to see that democracy reigns. we must recognize that the present situation in belarus is also our responsibility, for what we have done and for what we have not done. we must ensure that the policy we adopt from now on is not one of reaction, not one of embargoes, which experience has shown to be ineffective, but one of proactivity. it must be action not sporadic but taken in the framework of a neighbourhood policy that is now felt more than ever before to be necessary.
i would like to join other colleagues in expressing my solidarity with the portuguese government for its decision not to allow the vessel 'women on waves' to enter portugal. i express my solidarity and congratulate the portuguese government on its courage - why not? - and also on its moral courage in taking this decision. it is not easy in today's world, with pressures coming from all sides, to stand up and stick to a decision even if it is not necessarily popular. i would say that i do not agree that the issue of abortion should be brought before this parliament for any reason other than to put pressure on this country or that country. i disagree because everyone knows that this parliament has no power to decide or pass a law on abortion. and likewise the commission has no competence on abortion. this is a matter to be decided at national level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and each country according to its circumstances and the way its society views this sensitive issue. that is, by bringing this matter here when we know that parliament has no competence, all we are doing is confusing people and creating complete confusion, when in fact this is a clear issue and there is no need for confusion. this confusion has even led a number of countries, including malta, to seek to clarify this issue also in the context of the negotiations by negotiating a specific protocol on the issue of abortion. ireland had done the same and, if i am not mistaken, poland had done the same, not because there was any legal doubt about this matter but in order to ensure certainty and to make everyone proud of it. so while i again congratulate the portuguese government for setting an example for others, i appeal to us not to confuse people's minds on this issue by trying to go where it does not belong.
mr president, i would like to start by registering my strong protest at the lack of interpretation facilities in maltese. it is an official language of the european union and yet the interpretation booth up there is empty. these are shortcomings that are quite inconvenient and frankly unacceptable. i wanted to take the floor to draw attention to the very serious situation that my country is facing on the issue of illegal immigration. during the first nine months of this year alone, 1 200 boat people landed in malta. some may think that 1 200 is not such an extraordinary number, but when you consider the size of malta and its very high population density, one would immediately acknowledge that the situation is indeed very grave. to give you a clearer picture, 1 200 immigrants landing in malta are roughly equivalent – in terms of impact – to as many as 140 000 people landing in sicily. and this in the first nine months of this year alone. therefore, the impact is massive and it is clear that my country needs support to be able to cope with this serious situation. on the issue of illegal immigration, it is very easy to point fingers at others. it is less easy to shoulder the responsibility of dealing with a constant influx of boat people when you have insufficient means to cope with them. therefore, as a minimum, we must acknowledge that this is not just one country's problem, or that of a few countries: it is a common european problem. as such we should seek a common european solution. the european union should therefore put its money where its mouth is and help the affected countries equip themselves better to cope with the situation. in particular, adequate financial resources should be allocated to help them improve their infrastructure and services to be better able to handle the situation. we say the european union is built on the principle of subsidiarity. on this issue the time has come to move from words to action and to express solidarity in practice.
the problem of asylum seekers and illegal immigration in europe is a serious and worrying one. few countries can cope alone with the great and complex difficulties of this complex situation, especially a small country like malta which is bearing a burden disproportionate to its size and population. i therefore believe that one of the solutions is to share the burden. this is a cross-border issue and therefore needs an international solution, possibly a joint commitment between the institutions of the united nations and the european union. we cannot sit idly by and postpone this issue. do you not think that the time has come, mr president, for parliament to discuss and debate this tragic reality in a holistic, effective and fair way for the benefit of both asylum seekers and the countries involved?
today's debate is very important because it affects millions of people across the continent. sometimes i laugh because we seem to make the mistake here of thinking that everything that is said is some exclusive debate for us economists or for the banker. we're stuck in a conversation, sometimes so complicated, that i honestly believe that there are people here who don't even know what we're talking about, think about how much the people who voted for us will understand that we owe them. the issues we are talking about today, which are the subject of the report from the central bank, affect the daily lives of millions of people, as i have already told you. mr president, i come from a very small village, 800 people in all, which is in the smallest member of the european union, namely malta. however, this debate with such pompous words sometimes affects the lives of these families, as it affects the multinationals that have such strong lobbyists in brussels and here. these normal families, regular people as they are called in english, pay their taxes and observe the laws. it is to them that we must have first loyalty in all the decisions we make. i believe that the key point for the new member states of the european union is that they should put their economies on a firm footing. this must be done while being careful not to tear up the social fabric that in many countries, including my own, has been building for years. one has to look at the question of when to join the euro in this way. in my view, it would be wrong for a country to end up introducing superficial but harsh measures for the middle and lower classes in order to satisfy its desire to introduce the single currency as soon as possible, which might lead it to meet the convergence criteria, whatever they may be. but at the same time it will lead to the sacrifice of the social gains we have made in recent years. business should be done not in haste, but with a sound plan. our first priority must be to become more competitive both as an individual country and as a continent. the twelve members of the european union, and the european union as a whole, have much to learn from the experience of those members who have already adopted the single currency. it was a positive experience for many countries. however, there have been complaints, in many justified cases, especially from those who are least successful in our society, about unjustified price increases as the system has switched to the euro. last year this parliament asked the central bank to investigate the malfunctioning of the system that led to the price increase. i believe that we should consistently call for this inquiry again and i believe that we as a socialist group should therefore table an amendment to that effect and ask our colleagues in the other groups to consistently vote in favour of it again. finally, this is a very difficult time, but not a time to be discouraged, it is a time that needs leadership and vision.
i am one of those who would have preferred that your commission had been elected three weeks ago, because it would have already started work. but when i reflect on what happened, i think that there is something good that can come out of it. i would say that i learned two lessons from that race. the first lesson is that the european union - and in particular the european commission - should appreciate that matters of faith, morality and ethics should not be interfered with. i am thinking in particular of sensitive issues such as abortion, euthanasia, clowning, the family and husbands, all of which are very sensitive issues on which there are different positions in the different countries of the european union. after what has happened in the last few weeks, i think that you, mr barroso, would be very wise to stay away from these topics and not try to get into adventures. after all, if we really believe in subsidiarity and unity in diversity, we should let individual countries regulate these areas according to national circumstances in their country. the second lesson we can draw from what has happened is that the european parliament is strengthening its position and becoming increasingly decisive in the decisions taken by the european union. this enhanced role of the european parliament puts the european commission under greater scrutiny and makes it more accountable. at the same time, however, the european commission itself is strengthening itself in this way because it is strengthening its legitimacy vis-à-vis the public. that is to say, mr president, after what has happened, we now have a stronger parliament, but we also have a stronger commission because it is more open to the scrutiny and scrutiny of the representatives directly elected by the european peoples. we have thus reduced the democratic deficit in europe and brought the european union one step closer to its citizens. thank you.
mr president, eritrea has not had a fortunate history but i do not recall anything in its recent past which has been as atrocious as the situation is now. looking at the motion, one finds that my country, malta, and libya find their place in the resolution. it was a great misfortune that some time ago a substantial number of eritreans were forcibly repatriated to eritrea. it was unfortunate because they did not have enough documentation that would have allowed them to apply for refugee status. they did not want to do this as at the time malta was not part of the european union and their original intention was to go to italy. although technically malta was right, it was certainly not morally right. we now know that the fate of those eritreans, through reports from one or two survivors who have managed to escape their country again, has been terrible. many were incommunicado, many were tortured. an eye-witness has even said that a number have died or been murdered. i believe that, when faced with such a situation, the european union has to take a different attitude to such a country. there should be no further dialogue because dialogue is not understood. dialogue has broken down. we have to assert ourselves in a way whereby the eritreans come to see the need for the european union. financial help and all forms of assistance may be withdrawn.
mr president, we cannot underestimate the sensitivity of the situation. the stakes remain very high at a national and an international level. what is the message that we should send to the ukrainians, whether they support one candidate or the other? we should send the message that we stand for democratic values, territorial integrity, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the impartiality of the courts, the rule of law, peaceful solutions, just solutions. but what is the message that we are receiving from the ukrainians? we are receiving the message that the aspirations of a people may be stalled. obstacles may be placed in the path of democracy but ultimately justice will prevail. what is the eu’s message to the international community? i conclude by saying that we are relevant, we can speak with one voice. we cannot compromise where democracy is concerned.
vice-president of the european commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr fabra vallés, president of the court of auditors, members of the court of auditors. first of all, i would like to thank mr fabra vallési for his speech and to reiterate my satisfaction with the fair and balanced presentation of the court's annual report. i would like to assure both the court and parliament that the commission will pay close attention to the court's conclusions and recommendations. now, let me turn to what i believe is the most important political aspect of the whole process. the main policy issue concerns the negative background to the so-called das (declaration of assurance), which arises from the fact that for the tenth consecutive year the court has not considered it possible to issue a full positive das. the eurosceptic journalists and some politicians were delighted with the anniversary, so to speak, as they were able to use the negative assessment of the das to make distorted and disproportionate claims about the overall use of eu funds. this year was relatively calm only because the eurosceptic press was too busy delaying mr barroso's commission inauguration. however, no matter how distorted these data are and no matter how much effort we make in the field of explanation, the negative background still affects public opinion, referendums and overall european cooperation year after year. the question inevitably arises: who is to blame for the negative assessments of the court for ten years? what to do? the commission's simplified answer to the question of who is to blame would be that the fault lies with the member states who have poorly implemented the payment system and the methodology used. if you ask the council, it would be easy for them to blame the commission, which is clearly responsible for the implementation of the eu budget under article 274 of the eu treaty. ask the court of auditors and they will point out the limited human resources available to them and the scale of the task. they do acknowledge the commission's progress from time to time, but since the treaty does not leave the court any room for creativity, the result is a negative das. so, ladies and gentlemen, how would the european parliament answer this question? so far, parliament has sought to approve the budget on the one hand, but on the other hand has given the impression that it has taken account of the negative das. it's hard to find balance in a situation like this. i am pleased that mr fazakas is this year the chairman of the parliament's committee on budgetary control and that mr wynn is the rapporteur on budgetary approval, with whom we share the view that this is a serious matter. it means we can make higher demands on ourselves. for all of us, the goal should be more than just approving the budget spent. the four institutions should jointly develop an action plan to achieve a positive das in the near future. this is a matter that needs to be resolved and the commission is prepared to work towards that. let me briefly comment on the discussions in the committee on budgetary control. i am pleased with the timing, format and approach chosen by the european parliament this year. the discussions of the committee on budgetary control since last week have raised specific questions aimed at clarifying certain important outstanding issues. i believe that this approach will improve the quality of our exchanges. i am pleased that the committee on budgetary control has considered that one of the most important issues to be addressed is how to achieve a positive das for budgetary payments in the future. a positive das should mean that the discharge authority has sufficient assurance that the supervisors and controllers are keeping track of costs and minimising the possibilities of irregularities , all with reasonable administrative costs. whatever the treaty says, the commission cannot do this on its own. the commission, the member states and the court of auditors need to coordinate audit and budgetary control more closely than before. reducing risks requires much more effective monitoring and control measures, which in turn means closing audit 'gaps' and removing any overlaps. for example, for payments made by member states, this means that member states must provide reliable audit evidence on which the commission, with overall responsibility, can rely. it is perhaps needless to say that member states are not particularly interested in such an additional commitment. perhaps we have not been able to create sufficient motivation and interest in the member states for budgetary approval issues, even if they are not topical. when the court of auditors presented its report to the finance council last week, my main message to them was that the adoption of the budget is not just a matter between the commission and parliament. we should find more ideas and ways to remind member states of this. i hope that parliament will help us in this and that we will have a debate today. as far as the commission is concerned, we'll do our part. one of the most important challenges for us is the accounting system. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the commission has made great progress in modernising the accounting system and in moving to the accrual method of accounting. if the new system is introduced in 2005, the commission will have a major advantage over most other administrative bodies in the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the court of auditors and members of the court of auditors, i have not used the time given me to list all the measures taken by the commission which have been positively assessed in the court's report. i would simply like to note that we are naturally pleased with the positive opinion given by the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts. we are pleased to see the improvements in this year's accounts recognised. we highly appreciate the unequivocally positive das given by the court of auditors for own resources, commitment appropriations and administrative expenditure. i have the opportunity to compliment you on this point: the fact that the financial management of the european union has improved significantly at all levels, providing a significantly better cost-effectiveness for the citizens of the european union, is largely due to the court's reports. i would like to thank mr fabra vallés for his invaluable contribution to the court of auditors. the process of adopting the 2003 budget has begun. finally, i would like to reiterate that active participation is in the interest of all the institutions and is also the responsibility of all of us. i and my colleagues in the commission are interested in continuing the discussion with you on how to arrive at the best possible outcome and how to evaluate that outcome. i believe it's in the best interest of all of us. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, it is unfortunate that a report of this importance has been overshadowed by other events such as the election of the new commission, when we should all attach great importance to how the european union is using taxpayers’ money in the implementation of its budget. i am pleased that this year’s report points to improvements in the use of the eu budget and there have been steps forward in strengthening financial control. however, as the commissioner mentioned, we feel increasingly frustrated about the negative statement of assurance. the report also points to continued shortcomings, particularly in the case of agriculture and structural measures, where eu money is spent jointly or directly by the member states themselves. coming from a new member state, i am particularly shocked to learn that a significant amount of money that is allocated to different member states is regularly left unused. this should send a clear message to national public administrations, particularly in the new member states, that unless they put their house in order they seriously risk being unable to absorb eu funds, which is certainly not good news. in the light of the new financial perspectives, the continued mismatch between amounts that are budgeted and amounts that are actually spent should also tell us that we can hardly expect to increase the eu budget and increase funding allocations if we are unable to use the money that we already have. the ppe-de group will definitely continue to press for a use of the eu budget that is efficient, effective and respectful of the highest standards of integrity. we want taxpayers to feel that their money is being put to good use by the european union and most importantly that they are getting good value for money. to this end, i feel that we are on the right track but we still have a long way to go. i call on the new commissioner, whom i congratulate on his appointment, to lead the way.
mr president, i have just returned from a private visit to zimbabwe. it is interesting to note that the situation on the ground does not appear desperate. however, according to the statistics, the situation is probably worse in other parts of the country which i did not visit. when debating such countries as zimbabwe, where human rights are not even discussed because of fear of repression, we must consider the right attitude to take in order to try to influence the powers that be. we know we are dealing with a regime that is not democratic, that has taken tried to use almost all its powers to take away the democratic and fundamental rights of part of its population. on the other hand, we have seen recently that there is a silver lining. the courts, for instance, are striving from a very difficult position to try to retain some form of impartiality. sometimes i wonder whether a carrot-and-stick policy might be more appropriate and more fruitful than just passing motions of condemnation. we may pass this motion but what effect will it have? very little, i think, with a regime like mugabe's. we must start to think in different terms if we are to be effective when dealing with a regime of this sort.
