i would like to draw your attention to a very different matter, mr president, namely the special expropriation law in valencia for the regulation of urban development activities, the lrau, which in my view is in direct violation of several international conventions, including the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it seems that the valencian government has designed this stalinist law to be able to realize its zoning plans cheaply. the law provides for expropriation in the public interest, but in practice has the effect of granting project developers a free hand to carry out their lucrative plans. the house will be able to vote on the report by mr glinne, and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. that sounds like a medieval situation to me. i therefore call for a european parliament committee of inquiry to investigate whether this law violates international conventions and for it to be suspended during the investigation.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mrs de palacio for her introduction. i shall confine myself to the question of flight data and the relationship with the united states. i would point out that the united states is still receiving unfiltered information at this time. article 6 of regulation (eec) no 2299/89 and article 26 of directive 95/46/ec are still not complied with. in the meantime, as the commissioner has also pointed out, several flights have been cancelled on the basis of the unfiltered information and the united states has also requested that armed security officers be allowed on flights. furthermore, as the commissioner also says, countries react very differently to the last requirement in particular. i have to say, commissioner, that this is not a common approach and that this is very confusing for both passengers and airlines. i therefore believe that there is still no adequate protection by the united states, nor is there any protection of the interests of air passengers and airlines. i am not convinced that the agreement offers sufficient guarantees either. i therefore reiterate my wish for a permanent solution through an international agreement between the united states and europe, with the full involvement of the european parliament and the american congress. so it's a heavier formula, is it? i also reiterate my proposal that the commission should make use of article 300 (6) of the ec treaty to request the ec court of justice to give an opinion on this agreement. if you do not do this, i think that parliament should take this responsibility on its own shoulders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for example, it was not clear to me how these decisions were taken on the basis of the elements in the briefing, namely: the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the us with a comprehensive list of its air carriers, including the airlines that are subject to the eu's air safety regulations. even after consulting with one or several foreign ministers, the cancellation of flights was unilateral. how does this compare with, for example, international trade agreements? in general, before we discuss the final agreement, which is a month and a half away, i would also like to be informed about the way cooperation between the european and american security authorities is proceeding. in short, i think that the signals of the past month are not exactly an example of how things should be and i hope to get a clear answer now, or in the light of my written questions.
to replace the rapporteur. mr president, it is a striking coincidence that we are talking this afternoon about air safety and safety at sea. mr pex, of all people, took his seat in a small plane this afternoon, whose brakes failed, and then he and mr bert doorn and mr plooij-van gorsel, three members of the dutch delegation, collided with a hangar and were unable to be here in time. i have therefore been asked to make my contribution here. so when i speak of 'i', i speak on behalf of mr peter pex, who is otherwise doing well. mr president, it is of the utmost importance that oil spills at sea be prevented. large discharges are caused by disasters and rightly receive a lot of attention. but illegal discharges from non-tankers are also a major problem. especially since they're so common and so hard to track. in the rare cases of detection of discharges, prosecution is not often followed by punishment. that is a perplexing situation. the draft directive we are discussing today must urgently improve this situation. internationally, there are already enough rules to deal with the situation. the problem is that the member states do not enforce the rules to which they have committed themselves by means of the treaties. the solution is: incorporate into community law the international discharge rules in force and provide for rules for their enforcement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. following the prestige disaster, the heads of government have twice called for strict measures to be introduced before the end of 2003, on 21 march and 13 december 2002. the european commission came up with a good proposal in time, which i, peter pex, with the support of my colleagues in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism and the joint committees, have been able to improve by means of a number of amendments. i thank the commission and my colleagues for the good cooperation. a few comments on the proposal. the european rules must apply to all illegal discharges into inland waters and into the sea, both inside and outside territorial waters. it is important to be critical not only of the ship's crew but also of the ship's owners and the authorities on shore. in order to improve the detection of discharges and to enable the authorities to take swifter and more adequate action, a joint european coast guard is desirable. it is important for both the coastguard and the european maritime agency (emsa), which has already been set up, to have sufficient powers to increase maritime safety. the text of my report, which was approved by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, has been the subject of ten amendments. i would like to take up the two technical amendments tabled by mr sterckx, because they seek to clarify the text. as i said, the introduction of criminal sanctions is a good instrument. unfortunately, the same council that asked for it is not prepared to accept this proposal now, because it is considered that criminal law is a matter of the third pillar. although i, as rapporteur, have tried to cooperate with the council, because the rapid introduction of measures is a good thing for maritime safety, the council has refused. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in other words: i am very disappointed with the council's action. the heads of government who have twice called for action should take action to allow for a rapid implementation. it is better to do so now than when another catastrophe strikes unexpectedly. mr. chairman, on behalf of peter pex, i can say: i said that.
mr president, commissioner, safety remains an important issue in the marine world and in the maritime world. the prestige disaster shows that to this day. recently, the imo agreed on the amount of a supplementary fund for oil pollution damage. it also comments on the eligible contributors to that fund. i believe that the proposals contained in the reports by mr pex and mr di lello finuoli are a valuable addition to this regulation. responsibilities are clearly identified and clear penalties are imposed for failure to comply. i am glad that there are criminal sanctions for this. i am less happy with the request to establish a european coast guard, because in my view it is more an extra layer of existing activities than a meaningful addition to the tasks already carried out by the individual coast guards. the same applies to the request in the poignant report to give european flag vessels a clear eu physical identification. until we have a common european register of shipping, i do not think this is a sensible approach. it will also lead to a delay in the examination of this proposal by the council. so, mr president, on the whole i am very much in favour of these proposals, albeit with some reservations.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i should like to make a number of comments on the management of fissile materials and radioactive waste. first, the legal basis. the commission is wrong to refer to articles 30, 31 and 32 of the euratom treaty. however, these only concern the health and safety of workers. they are not related to the safety standards for nuclear facilities. the commission should have taken the correct legal basis, namely article 203 of the euratom treaty. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also expressed its concern about the proposal for a directive on waste. this approach will not benefit the nuclear industry, the environment or society. as regards the processing options, the committee on the environment considers that there is no broad international consensus on this. even in france, the country of nuclear energy par excellence, national legislation requires a range of different options to be examined. as regards the timetable, no new member state will be able to meet the timetable under the current circumstances, not even finland, which will require two additional years. the committee on the environment also believes that the export of waste outside europe should be banned and that the proposed directive should be amended. the commission should publish and allow comments on its current plans for the management and treatment of radioactive waste from all member states. it should draw up a list of waste that cannot be exported into space or the sea and cannot be processed. the commission has also proposed a proposal in the aarhus style on the compulsory consultation of the public. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a nuclear accident is a very good one. we must also be convinced that the decommissioning funds must be raised by the nuclear industry itself and not by the taxpayer. we therefore believe that the directive should be radically tightened up so that it results in the introduction of the latest safety standards, the compliance with which can be effectively enforced. that is also missing from the present proposals. finally, the comments by commissioner de palacio on kyoto. i assume that she was expressing her personal opinion and not the opinion of the commission as a whole, because she is not responsible for this dossier. i shall therefore ignore her comments on kyoto.
i can still vividly remember, mr president, how at our november 2002 meeting mr herzog's report on state aid was adopted by one vote. the report adopted was only so amended that nothing remained of the original proposal. it seems that mr herzog is still having difficulty with the majority of parliament's opinion, which rightly opposes the introduction of a framework directive on services of general interest. the rapporteur had already presented a working document setting out his views before the european commission presented its green paper in may 2003. that is too soon and too early to answer the questions which the commission put to parliament in its green paper. it is regrettable that the green paper was not a vision document, that the rapporteur had a vision of the commission proposal before the proposal was made, and it is simply premature. the green paper rightly points to the powers of national and regional authorities for services of general interest. i believe that it is therefore a matter for national and regional politicians to decide on services of general interest. i therefore see no need to give the commission new powers in this area. i can therefore agree with the proposal adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
the regulation of european agencies, which we are discussing in the report by mr almeida garrett, is a subject which is at the heart of the debate on the future of europe, namely the fight against european bureaucracy. it is important that we now, at a time when europe is in a crisis from which we must emerge together, consider how we can integrate the various european institutions, including existing and future agencies, into the democratic structure of europe. a democratic, transparent and efficient europe. i repeat once again that 2004 is a decisive year for europe. a year in which it is vital that we regain the confidence of our european voters. these voters look at us and think that europe is a log and a bureaucratic machine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the citizens who see the clashes between heads of government over the distribution of power and money naturally understand less and less what european cooperation is really about, and it is not for nothing that we speak of a democratic gap in the european union that needs to be closed. europe is too slow, often inefficient and incomprehensible to its citizens, and therefore underperforms. we have to change that. the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. that is why we must ensure a more efficient and democratic europe. we must eradicate rapacious bureaucracy from the roots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the execution of essential tasks financed by european money. i would like to mention a number of points which i consider to be of vital importance in this context. firstly, direct control by the european commission and political accountability to the council and parliament must be ensured when european agencies are set up and, of course, those agencies must have directors who, on pain of dismissal, submit any serious political problems directly to the commissioner responsible for policy. let us think for a moment about the eurostat case. secondly, the present confusing situation of no less than 12 different structures must be replaced by a uniform structure which is controllable and understandable to everyone. thirdly, the location of an agency should depend on criteria such as efficiency and cost-benefit analyses. so no more bickering about parmaham and swedish models. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. only then will we be able to tackle the bureaucracy seriously. we fully support the report by mr almeida garrett.
commission. - mr president, i shall try to respond very quickly to the speeches which i think are largely convergent and consensual. firstly, on the scope of the text, your rapporteur indicated earlier that she might have wished the commission to be a little more ambitious at this stage. for the time being, we are only offering tools for future regulatory agencies. why would you do that? the reason for this is simply that we want to start with what is immediately feasible and we feel that if we had had to deal with the very disparate nature of the existing agencies in the first place, it would have been difficult, if not impossible, to take a truly comprehensive approach. we therefore prefer a global approach and would like to apply it first to future agencies. as regards the legal instrument, i believe that there is no disagreement between us: we need a framework regulation, as you propose, which is a binding legal instrument for the application of common principles, and in this case, that is precisely what we are seeking. the advantage of having such an instrument on regulatory agencies is that there would be a parallel with the framework regulation which was adopted in december 2002 by the council for the statute for executive agencies. i have now taken up, in substance, and i think we are in full agreement on all these points, some of the principles which emerge from your discussion: efficiency, control, responsibility and, to top it all off, a principle of thrift which your rapporteur seems to me to have expressed very well. we agree on the principle of efficiency, and we must apply our good resolutions on efficiency to the structure and composition of the agencies. it is clear that if the boards of directors are pluriform and if the selection of the directors is based on permanent conciliations, we will not achieve our aims. so we must have the necessary rigour to this end, and i believe that we can work together on this. the second principle is control. as you have said, whether it is the legal, administrative or financial aspects, these agencies which are in some way dismemberments must be controlled all the more the further they are from the executive authority. third, the principle of responsibility. you said that and we agree with you on this: the commission is the political authority, and its agencies, even the regulatory agencies, work under the political responsibility of the commission, which you must be able to call to account, and that is your right and duty. in the end, all of this, and i end with this point, implies a principle of thrift. it is indeed sometimes tempting to solve a particular problem by setting up an agency; we must be able to resist this temptation together. we need good anti-proliferation prevention and it appears from your debate that your intentions in this respect are in perfect agreement with those of the commission. i therefore assume that we have a set of criteria and principles which will enable us to improve the present situation, which is admittedly beginning to look very much like a plate of spaghetti.
commission. - mr president, you asked us to take stock again of the state of play of the wto negotiations on the so-called doha development agenda, following the period of reflection, work and contacts which the commission has allowed itself after the failure of the cancun conference. it is clear that since our last discussion on this subject, which took place just after cancún on 24 september, the situation has changed, both on the union side and on the wto side. i will address three aspects of the post-cancun process: our policy after the commission's communication last november and the general affairs council, the situation at the wto since 15 december, and finally the prospects for 2004. let us first look at our own politics. you know that after cancún the commission has begun a phase of in-depth reflection and consultation of your own parliament, the member states, the social partners and civil society. all this culminated in a communication in mid-november on the relaunch of the negotiation process, which we still consider to be of paramount interest to the european union. you have received this communication. it was discussed in your committee responsible for external trade and also bilaterally with a number of your political groups. i summarise this policy as it stands today. it's clear. first of all, we remain firmly committed to multilateralism. this remains the union's number one priority in trade policy and we want the negotiations to resume as soon as possible. on the substance of the matter, we have relaxed our position on the so-called singapore issues, and this will be welcomed by a number of groups in this parliament. we have also adopted a more flexible approach to geographical indications and even environmental indications to facilitate negotiation. in the agricultural sector, we have renewed our desire to activate a negotiation which is lagging behind, if only because, since our own reforms, we have the means to contribute actively to it. the european union has finally stopped being on the defensive in this case. a word on the state of play at the wto, particularly since the resumption of work on 15 december. the good news is that after cancún, which revealed certain nuances and even differences on the need to continue these negotiations, everyone now agrees with the wto that it is important to relaunch them. we all agree that the world is likely to be worse off without the results of negotiations than with them, which is an important political motivation. that's the good news! however, does this lead to a pace of negotiation which, in our view, allows us to achieve ambitious objectives in 2004? we're not there yet. i now turn to the third point, the prospects for the negotiations in 2004. i believe that the real challenge is not to revive the discussions. there is agreement on this and the process is under way. the real challenge is to do it at the pace, with the energy and ambition required. we'll go through a technical phase for a month or two in geneva. it is essential that this technical phase should lead as soon as possible to a political phase which will enable the various ministers to express their views on the timetable and content of the end of the negotiations. in this respect, the european union has done a lot of work since mid-december. we have been joined by the americans since the end of last week, and we are pleased to see this, since my american counterpart himself has taken the position of supporting a clear relaunch of activities in geneva, expressing on certain points, as we had done in our time, a capacity for flexibility which i believe is a welcome initiative. it helps to correct the feeling that was spreading here and there that, since 2004 was an election year in the united states, it would somehow see this negotiation put in parentheses. my american counterpart has fortunately beaten all these pessimistic forecasts.what are we going to do in the coming weeks? we will continue our dialogue with developing countries first, and in particular with countries such as the g20 or the g90. i myself took the necessary initiatives when i went to latin america in mid-december and we will continue the dialogue which i believe was successfully started on that occasion, as well as with the g90. i will be in bangladesh, india and indonesia next week, working on the different topics with interlocutors who are obviously crucial interlocutors. as i said earlier, the main thing now is to see whether we can make rapid progress on the agricultural issues, on industrial tariffs, on services and on the singapore issues which we consider to be priorities, i.e. trade facilitation and transparency of public procurement. i feel that both sides, at least the united states and europe, have a lot of room for manoeuvre. we must now ensure that brazil, south africa, india, china and our japanese friends keep the fire of this negotiation burning as vigorously as we are willing to do. in any case, the message i want you to send, the commission's message, is that we want 2004 to catch up, and we believe we can, with much of what we were unable to do in cancun in 2003.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would just like to make a few remarks from an agricultural point of view on what my colleague pascal lamy has already said. you have heard the steps taken by the commission to get the negotiations back on track, and it was certainly disappointing that the wto members were not able to resume the negotiations on the development agenda in geneva in december. my impression of the circumstances leading up to the meeting in geneva on 15 december is that one of the factors was the nature of the procedure. the wto members did not negotiate directly with each other, but everything was done through the chairman of the wto general council. this approach was certainly not conducive to an agreement. i am even more convinced of this when, shortly afterwards, i met many ministers on the sidelines of the fao conference in rome who also regretted that no direct contacts had taken place and that they had expected such contacts. my conclusion is that we definitely need more talks and even more intensive efforts among wto members to reach an agreement, and that this is absolutely necessary. as pascal lamy has already said, we will do everything in our power to ensure that 2004 is not a lost year. we shall be playing a particularly active role here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the basic condition for us is that this framework should reflect the spirit and content of the doha declaration. first, the most trade-distorting amber-box measures are more restricted than the less trade-distorting blue-box measures. secondly, the discussion of export competition must address all forms of export subsidy in parallel. as you know, we have gone on the offensive in the debate on export subsidies by proposing the abolition of all forms of export subsidies on a number of products which are important to the developing countries. we're still waiting for a response to that offer. at the same time, we must note that other forms of export subsidies still lack the willingness to make similar commitments. for example, the canadian wheat board has, as far as i know, been compensated for its recent losses by the canadian government. argentina, for example, uses the differentiated export levies on soybeans and soybean meal as an indirect subsidy for the construction of its largest soybean mill. the united states continues to use food aid to reduce its surpluses. we have made it clear from the outset that in export competition all measures must be treated in parallel and must also have the same degree of discipline. we'll keep working on that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the two commissioners for their efforts and for what they have brought forward here. the epp-ed group very much appreciates your commitment and your efforts to make 2004 a greater success than 2003. i share the commissioner's view that it is necessary to provide the member states with more information on the offer made by the european union in the field of agriculture. in cancún it was already clear that people did not believe it, and i think it is useful and necessary to go further to explain that. what i am struck by is that mr zoellick is going to make a big gesture, but it is still unclear what exactly he is proposing. we welcome the fact that the us government is now showing more flexibility on this point, but the question i would like to put to the two commissioners is: is that also true, for example, of cotton? because as far as i know, the us position on cotton is still fairly rigid. perhaps you could tell us a little more about that area? i also wonder how far japan is prepared to relax its policy on rice at the moment, because as you know, rice was also one of the blockades in cancún. perhaps you would like to give some details on that too? mr president, the epp-ed group believes that what we have offered in the field of agriculture, including the possibility of reducing export subsidies to almost zero, plus now also the relaxation of geographical names, is sufficient to start negotiations. we are also very pleased that the offer is being seen more broadly and that we are looking not only at agriculture but also at services and singapore issues. unfortunately, we will also have to accept that there is a certain amount of flexibility in this, but i think that the package that is now in place should provide sufficient scope for negotiations to proceed smoothly. what is missing a little bit is the whole discussion about some kind of reform of the wto. we all know that cancun has also shown that the organization as it is now cannot continue. i hope this is included in the package. mr president, the question that commissioner lamy asked us was whether we would give him the space to enter into negotiations with the package he has proposed. i can answer that in full on behalf of the epp-ed group: yes, we think so.
president, commissioner, you know the position of the pse group. an early start to the doha agenda is in the interests of economic recovery in europe. a speedy resumption is in the interest of every part of the world. we must deliver on our development promises, stop the agricultural subsidies that are being thrown away and use them for environmentally, consumer and third world friendly agriculture. the european trade agenda must be brought closer to the citizens. the socialist group wants more priority for a citizen's agenda, and it says: counterforce. the citizens want protection at work against unfair competition - in this respect, i pay tribute to your commitment to the us steel war and south korea's unfair support for the shipyards. the citizens also want respect for nature and the environment and a consumer-friendly agriculture. no animal-trapping, quality over quantity and respect for nature. he wants social power. he does not want products made by exploiting women or child labour. support for fair trade items, support for free trade. commissioner, we can give additional support to countries that take education and health care and free movement seriously through our additional gsp approach, but we want to do that through a multilateral approach. that approach requires, in our view, dropping the singapore issues in the sense that we take them out of the single undertaking. now is the time to do that. but the reality is that many developing countries see us, along with the united states, as the ones who don't really want to. the message has been poorly received, particularly in the agricultural field and in relation to the singapore issues. we hope that with the new alliance we will be generous, that is to say, we will stop export subsidies on products which are sensitive to them, we will open our markets and help them to market their products in their own region and in our market. we must be clear about the g-21, as you yourself say. we need the new emerging world power as a multilateral player, but they must also know that if they demand things from us, they must also do business themselves. they must ensure the right of their citizens to free movement and the abolition of child labour and exploitation of women. why should they not be the first to give this new alliance a chance, as we have done with everything but arms, and allow their countries to import products? that would make lula's agenda credible. commissioner, europe's efforts to provide cheap aids drugs have finally been successful. in this respect, europe has shown that it is not looking for short-term gains for itself but for a broader position. this approach to global free markets with fair rules makes us a lot more credible. i believe that rapid implementation of this approach in the member states and the european union is the right course to take.
mr president, it seems to be getting a bit dutch in here this morning, so we'll just go on for a moment. the netherlands is therefore a trading nation par excellence. in the debate we had here in parliament in september on the failure of the cancún round of negotiations, i had already expressed my support for a speedy resumption to commissioners lamy and fischler on behalf of the liberal group. multilateralism remains the best way forward towards global free trade, and it is to the disadvantage of smaller countries and developing countries to conclude bilateral agreements. these countries benefit from common standards that apply worldwide. reform of the wto is also a priority for the commission, and i agree with commissioner lamy, because the way the organisation is functioning now is amenable to improvement and will no longer be applicable in 2004. but he must remember that it was the members who made the negotiations fail. the main objective is therefore to win constructive support from wto members for the continuation of the doha round. with the us presidential election this year, however, that will not be easy, as the campaigns are likely to be full of protectionist rhetoric. i think that a stronger role for the secretariat in geneva and for the director-general is a step in the right direction. the director-general should be given the initiative to create more support and commitment from the member states to get the negotiations back on track and also to get the members to stick to the agreements made. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have again given a strong impetus to this in cancún through a parliamentary conference. that must continue, because we cannot leave this democratic control to the ngos. firstly, they have no democratic legitimacy and secondly, in cancún it has been shown again and again that these organisations do not seek to make the negotiations a success. in substance, i believe that the current agenda must be maintained and that the singapore issues and market access play a key role in this. developing countries in particular have benefited from a good investment climate, reduced import duties and transparent regulations. the countries of the south benefit from trade facilitation, since 80 percent of all import duties are paid by developing countries to each other. but the european union must also provide better information to other members, as my colleague from velzen has already said. finally, the liberal group gives commissioners lamy and fischler ample room to put their strategy and the package proposed into practice and to continue along this path.
mr president, i have already said in this house that christian charity requires a more constructive approach to the development agenda, and in that light i have a number of comments on the strategy before us. first, there is agriculture. the eu agreed a framework with the united states for cancún. the us trade representative, mr zoellick, recently called for the resumption of negotiations in the current trade round. i assume that the commissioner is in consultation with him to come to a framework with clear commitments on the main lines. a second element of the doha agenda is the production and import of patent-free medicines for developing countries with a serious health crisis. the complex import procedure for cheap medicines needs to be simplified. the united states is a strategic player in this, so we must work with them to find a more workable solution. the necessary clarification on this point is missing from the commission document. finally, this round of trade is a development round. the singapore issues must not be the focus of the negotiations, let alone the development issues.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the radioactivity of this material decays only slowly and can persist in a weakened form for tens of thousands of years. this insoluble waste problem should be an important reason for abandoning further use of nuclear fission. instead, pressure is being put on to increase underground storage capacity for this hazardous material, for example in the salt marshes of the dutch province of drenthe. in june 2003, i asked the commission for clarification on plans to make geological disposal for the final storage of the most dangerous types of radioactive waste compulsory for eu member states from 2018. according to the reply, a study of the assessment of the performance of geological insulation systems has shown that in all european countries there is a suitable subsoil with suitable clay, salt or crystalline rock layers. it now appears that the possibility is also being opened up of treating this waste as a commodity which must have access to all european countries because of the free movement without import permits. since parliament has no power to prohibit this, the only way to challenge imports is through the court of justice. for me this is a reason to vote against this whole directive.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined. this is true of the number of subjects on which parliament has powers of codecision, but it is not true of final decisions. in a normal parliamentary democracy, parliament has the right of initiative and also the last word in matters of legislation, budget and coalition formation. this proposal once again highlights the lack of democracy within the eu, now that the increase in the ceiling for euratom loans from eur 4 billion to eur 6 billion appears to be a matter for the council alone, not parliament. the most positive aspect of this proposal is that the fight against nuclear insecurity is extended from the eu member states alone to russia, ukraine and armenia. how to combat this lack of security is still a matter of dispute. some want more modern nuclear power stations, others want them shut down for good. i agree with the rapporteur, mrs hiltrud breyer, that loans for the financing of nuclear power stations should no longer be granted for the purpose of expanding nuclear energy but for the purpose of abolishing it. the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has almost turned this report around, and therefore i, like the rapporteur himself, can no longer support it.
mr president, on 30 august last year an important decision was taken. on the eve of cancún, the united states, the eu and the developing countries agreed to scrap paragraph 6 of the doha declaration. it is the production of medicines for developing countries which are experiencing a serious health crisis. the agreement is not great, but it is a start, although we must now implement it. i have now learned from the press that the united states is making a retreat. the european union should therefore take some convincing steps now. but so far the european union has shown little initiative. the opportunity to implement the decision of 30 august has recently been lost with the revision of the pharmaceutical legislation. the commission seems to think that this matter belongs in the community patent and national patent legislation, but that is not enough. the community patent is a long way off and does not concern existing patents. moreover, the community patent does not affect data protection. the health crisis in africa is an urgent problem. last month it was announced that aids had claimed five million lives in the past year. i cannot understand why the eu has not been willing to do what the eu agreed before the cancún conference. commissioner, my question to you is this: when will the european union have taken the legal measures to enable the production of generic medicines for developing countries to be accelerated? what commitments can you make to parliament today?
we have been and continue to be very active in dealing with the consequences of chernobyl and other environmental disasters, but i should like to ask the commissioner what more we can do in order to prevent another environmental disaster occurring when something goes wrong with pesticides. could he approach the ukraine authorities on these issues, since we shall be raising them in parliament at the next meeting of the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee that is to take place next month? what more can he do in terms of contacting the ukraine government and looking again at how the tacis programme can contribute to that? after the chernobyl experience we have to prompt ukraine to do something. the commissioner knows as well as i do how that country functions. this will not be its top priority. we must tell ukraine that dealing with these kinds of methods is a top priority for the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his explanation. i also know that it is a problem at the level of the ukrainian government, but there are also political forces in ukraine who are very clearly dealing with this problem and who are on the side of the european parliament, which has said that this problem must be solved. i would ask the commissioner if he is prepared to put his heart into the political forces in ukraine who are not in government at the moment but may be in the future and help them to find a solution to this extremely difficult and extremely dangerous problem in ukraine.
president. - i should like to thank mr nobilia for his excellent cooperation. i only have one minute, so i'm gonna have to narrow it down. there is really only one big problem left, and that is the phosphates. phosphate-free detergents are mandatory in a number of countries, for example by voluntary agreement with the producers and sometimes by law. but in some of the old 15 countries like spain, there are still detergents on the market with phosphates. in many of the new countries that are about to join, sometimes as much as two thirds of the detergents still contain phosphates. it is very simple to replace it and the commission should have proposed it long ago. i also understand that the commission has a proposal for this in the bureau. so what is stopping the commission from finally getting that out of the way now and not waiting three years at all? i have a question for the commission. is it true that one country, namely france, has blocked the compromise? otherwise this whole sitting would not have been necessary and we would have reached a compromise long ago. please answer that question. only france blocked the deal?
madam president, on behalf of the edd group i would like to congratulate rapporteur nobilia on the compromise reached with the council. the assessment of detergents is carried out with due regard to environmental and health effects. the agreement on exemptions, phosphates and labelling has been reached and i have also given my support to this by co-signing the compromise amendments. it is good that member states can ban phosphates in particular, as some have already done. a ban on phosphates also has the positive effect of reducing the spread of the harmful cadmium in the environment. the extraction of phosphates releases cadmium. however, the recent conclusion of the scientific committee on toxicology, ecotoxicology and the environment suggests that a ban on phosphates throughout the eu should be reconsidered. the scientific committee has demonstrated the adverse environmental effects of phosphates and has found the alternatives to be appropriate. i would like to hear the commissioner's opinion on this. finally, madam president, i am pleased that agreement has been reached on labelling. simple text on products approved after thorough evaluation should be sufficient. if the curious consumer wants to know more, he can consult the manufacturer via the website and telephone.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. president. - a part of the third world is experiencing an unprecedented health crisis and it is in the interest of the whole world that the necessary steps are taken to mitigate and, above all, combat this crisis. the committee on industry is aware of its limited contribution to the solution of this problem, but stresses that it is an essential contribution. i would like to make three points on behalf of the committee on industry. first, the industrial side. there are still too many diseases that are neglected, that are not studied, that are not seen by any industry. in fact, this is a disgrace for european industry, but it is also a missed opportunity. the european pharmaceutical industry is not innovative enough and focusing on neglected diseases could provide a new impetus. the eu must now show political leadership to get industry to invest in diseases that have so far not been profitable. a directive or framework for so-called neglected diseases is badly needed and there is no need to fear unorthodox measures, subsidies, protocol assistance, tariff exemptions and even the transfer of patent rights. the eu must create a framework on the basis of which it can begin dialogue and negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry on investments in research into malaria, tb, sleeping sickness, etc. the second point is research. the eu must now make its own research programmes work. the clinical trial platform was a good step, but what happens in practice? the eu should develop a research agenda and identify any gaps in it. research institutes and companies can then subscribe to it. the committee on industry appreciates all the efforts made by commissioner busquin in this area. and thirdly, there is trade. the decision of 30 august 2003, on the eve of the cancun conference, is of course of great importance in this respect. the committee on industry would have liked to see this decision actually implemented in legislation in the field of pharmaceuticals. we urge the swift implementation of this legislation. doha must not remain a hollow promise.
president, the 2001 action programme against hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis has now been in force for two years. the situation has not diminished. the three diseases together are responsible for more than 20,000 deaths a day. in the past year alone, according to the who, some 40,000 people were infected with hiv/aids every day, and according to the latest figures, 16 million children under 15 have lost one or both parents to aids. tuberculosis is one of the world's most important infectious diseases. one third of the world's population has been infected, and it is expected that 5 to 10 percent of them will actually become sick. malaria is on the rise. in africa alone, malaria kills about one million people each year. pregnant women and young children are the hardest hit. the seriousness of the situation cannot be overstated. the death rate from this disease is still rising and will continue to do so. it is clear that the least developed countries are the most affected and that is why we are talking about poverty diseases. they restrict social and economic development. in many developing countries, society is being completely disrupted. the death rate is falling to a large extent, and businesses and organisations are running out of manpower. the education system in many countries is no longer functioning because of the mortality of teachers, and as mentioned, the number of orphans is exploding. what future do they have? a whole generation is in danger of being lost. the diseases are more demanding on health care than it can handle. the action programme can be considered a sound one, but it could be improved on a number of points. the evaluation of european development policy shows that the current programmes are not having enough effect. the european union has set itself the millennium development goals. one of the targets is to stop the upward trend of the spread of aids by 2015, but we're still not doing enough to achieve these targets. the commission has already proposed that the programme be extended to cover the whole of the community, and that the research on the causes and control of the diseases be intensified. the biggest problem with malaria, as we know, is that increasing resistance means that new drugs have to be developed all the time. i think the report reflects well the commitment of parliament to the importance of, as has already been said: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). i would like to emphasize one point which deserves special attention, and that is the special position of women. women are also the first and most affected. in the 15-24 age group, almost twice as many women as men are victims. poor access to education and health care, a biologically higher risk of infection and a difficult social position contribute to this. this population group therefore deserves special attention and policies. this is all the more so since, for example, projects in the field of health care have been found to be more successful when women are involved. investing in girls has been shown to reduce maternal and child mortality, increase food security and improve poverty reduction. the unicef study published on 11 december last year made this clear once again. the report even states that without actions to get more girls into school, for example, it will be impossible to achieve the millennium development goals. moreover, it turns out that when more girls go to school, it's not just the girls who benefit, but the boys and the countries as well. finally, mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, who is an expert in this field and has once again produced a good report. there is still a lot to be done for the european union and for the individual member states.
- mr president, europe has had a miserable year and the challenge now is to restore confidence in the institutions and the agreements made by those institutions. this confidence will also be reflected in the turnout in the european parliament elections in june. one way to restore that trust is through more transparency and democracy. we are looking for a new president of the european commission and we are looking for an independent, powerful person with a majority in the new european parliament behind him. i therefore ask the president-in-office of the council to consider involving the european parliament in the nomination of candidates, for example by having the political families stand. in any case: away with nighttime decisions in back rooms. secondly, trust can be restored by effectively addressing crossborder problems. that is what the people expect of us. major epidemics are an example of this. that sars has eluded us in the previous epidemic crises is more luck than wisdom. there is a threat of a new sars epidemic and i ask the presidency to take the initiative to ensure that the ministers of health give the european commission, in this case commissioner byrne, far-reaching powers to take crisis management measures, such as uniform checks at airports, if necessary. in any case, i trust that this presidency can restore confidence in the institutions and that your inspired speech today will only strengthen that confidence.
- mr president, mr taoiseach, take up the european mandarin language and culture. citizen organisations are discouraged by the reading of forms and grant applications in mandarin, eurospeak, which alienates citizens. i would like to pay tribute to the irish presidency for its efforts to simplify forms, arrangements and texts and to make them more citizen-friendly. the attack on that mandarin language and culture can be: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, to use a network of national civil society organisations and national parliamentarians as input for the irish conference in april to bring language and culture closer to the citizen. three, citizens in all european countries will be able to explain clearly, in direct language, the core message of europe in the coming months through television advertisements: safety in the streets, safety in the world, protection of nature, more democracy and less bureaucracy. europe starts with the citizens in their own region. fourthly, to join the measures for good governance. reduce the number of pages of regulations from 80,000 to 50,000 and the number of types of decisions from 23 to 6, in the interests of clear, results-oriented and democratic governance. the european constitution therefore has the highest priority and not business as usual. the heads of government in brussels failed to negotiate the constitution. without a constitution there can be no further enlargement and no serious discussion of the financial perspective. and there can be no further political integration as long as there is no democratic control by the european parliament. five, to join the european parliament's proposals for a citizen's test of all the eu proposals we will receive in the near future. better to prevent through a civil test than cure afterwards. six, to agree with the european parliament's proposal on subsidiarity. let us keep what we can low and what we can small, with the national parliament as the watchdog. here are our proposals to tackle a predatory mandarin europe in favour of another, democratic europe. mr president, i would like to ask you to support this programme and to do so in april. other matters: the european commission has been given a lot of support in the court of justice, but also in the reform of the stability and growth pact, in order to achieve more european growth alongside a hard euro. support the proposals of wim kok, support the proposals for debt relief linked to the millennium development goals for developing countries. are you prepared to take the initiative on this point and support a troika for ethiopia and eritrea, which are threatened with another war? the naples agreement is an important step towards a broad european security policy. all the studies show that this is a priority for all our citizens. therefore, you must work to establish the constitution of the convention. ten countries and no constitution is an insult to the citizens of europe, because they - and i have full confidence in you, given the way you have expressed your commitment - must be at the centre of this european jubilee year.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the negative aspect of this proposal is that it gives priority to the removal of obstacles to free movement. the positive thing is that member states which have already introduced legislation which is stricter than this directive for environmental reasons will not be prevented from enforcing it. the reason for this regulation is that when we wash and clean, we add not only clean water, dirt, but also soap components and other surfactants. for many years efforts have been made to promote the production of phosphate-free detergents. this proposal also seeks to prevent animal testing, the addition of hard-to-degrade substances, toxic chemicals and endocrine disruptors. the indication of the composition of detergents is certainly a major advance. efforts have been made in this respect by requiring manufacturers to inform the authorities of the composition of products and to indicate the actual content of preservatives, colour-protecting products and flavouring substances on the packaging. we should welcome transparency on harmfulness and then we should try to convince the council of this, even if a general ban on harmful substances would be preferable. the proposed amendments may help to achieve this in the longer term. the producers may protest, but a tightening of the measures is inevitable.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this issue would not have been on the agenda if it had not been for a petition signed by almost 2 million people and the committee on petitions, which decided a year ago to draw up a report on the subject. the bushmeat phenomenon is already well known in britain, but not elsewhere. nevertheless, it is important for development cooperation, public health and the environment that we improve the knowledge of this phenomenon in europe and define a policy to deal with it. the population of developing countries is growing rapidly along with the opportunities for trade and transport. in the past, small groups of people hunted wild animals in the jungle for meat for their own consumption. today, meat from monkeys, reptiles, and snakes is not only eaten by poor local residents but is also sold in african cities and even exported to europe as a delicacy for the rich. commercial hunting and the clearing of tropical forests are rapidly eradicating species, including gorillas and chimpanzees. difficult-to-control diseases such as ebola have spread to humans. the eu's development aid does not take any account of this destruction or of the environment in general. i support the proposals on ecotourism as well as environmental protection, education and legislation, although it is clear that they leave much to be desired.
in writing. (nl) i am in favour of a europe in which the economy is gradually brought more under democratic control. this requires a completely different course from the one we are pursuing today with the green paper on universal service, which is making europe even more neoliberal. the stability pact is being used as a big stick to force member states to liberalise and privatise important economic sectors at the expense of democratic influence and control over the social and public sectors. although it is recognised that certain services should be accessible and affordable to all because social cohesion and solidarity depend on it, virtually no part of the public sector is protected. this will enable higher education, public health, social services and drinking water to be transferred to private hands. in addition, the old sectoral liberalisation plans for postal services, gas and electricity supply and public transport are being closely followed. the results of the liberalisation programmes are wrongly glorified, as is shown by the experience of the netherlands and other countries where the liberalisation of public transport and energy supply has been to the great detriment of the inhabitants. contrary to the claims made in the green paper, these services have become more expensive. the supply of services has declined and employment has remained the same. my party is in favour of a course which is diametrically opposed to that described here and will therefore vote against the proposal.
the european union is doing a great deal to involve the young generation in projects which aim to link european unity with progressive thinking. these projects risk moving to the edge of propaganda rather than education. by channelling money to organisations that promote the 'european idea' by defending the common european interest, the eu seeks to create a more cohesive european elite. in the worst-case scenario, the eu could develop into a power centre where power ends up in the hands of a pan-european english-speaking elite and where anyone who does not speak the language at home or does not have a good command of it is placed at a disadvantage in terms of employment and in terms of their ability to participate in political life, for example. different national and regional customs would then be considered a form of disability. that is why it is good that we are now at last seeking to defend cultural diversity against trade and centralistic forms of government. i fully agree with the rapporteur's assertion that cultural services and products, and in particular differences of opinion, are not consumer goods which can be simply handed over to the market. i support mrs prets' wish to exclude all related matters from the wto/gatt trade liberalization and to ensure their protection through a convention concluded under the auspices of unesco.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) women in the eu earn on average 84% of what men earn, and the average unemployment rate for women was 2.3% higher than for men in 2001. in the explanatory statement, the rapporteur clearly demonstrates that the many fine words about equal opportunities for men and women have led to very little action in practice, partly because of the lack of quantifiable results. clear objectives were not set in advance and the evaluation criteria set by the commission in the framework strategy for 2001-2005 are not re-introduced in the 2002 annual report. it is therefore unclear what has been done and what has not been done and what results have been achieved. the commission and the council are also independent of each other. during the finnish presidency in the latter part of 1999, the council set out nine indicators on women in management and decision-making positions, to which were added the french indicators on the possibilities of reconciling work and family life, the belgian indicators on wage inequality and the danish indicators on violence against women in the home. these are all excellent things for ministers to tell their grassroots supporters at home. they are not further dealt with in the annual reports and the underlying documents have remained confidential. it is regrettable that the motion for a resolution, which was adopted unanimously by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, is not as clear and precise as the reasons. i fear that once again the big changes will not take place.
- mr president, i would like to take this debate to ask the council and the commission to put the situation in vietnam on the agenda for the forthcoming 60th session of the united nations commission on human rights. the picture emerges from several reliable sources, including local ones, of increasing government repression in vietnam. this is all the more true for the second half of 2003. to illustrate, a few details on the rural situation. even the official figures show a doubling of the number of death sentences for 2003 compared to 2002, especially for drugs and economic crimes. citizens are also arrested for alleged spying or criticism of the government via the internet. particularly hard hit are the protestants in the central highlands of vietnam. they are subject to permanent ethnic and religious persecution, with the ultimate sanction of the state being the deprivation of their livelihoods and their lands. and incidentally, hanoi strictly forbids these mountain dwellers to have any contact with the outside world. gatherings of more than two persons are also taboo. no wonder so-called mountain dwellers try to flee their heavily militarized residential areas, resulting in dramatic refugee conditions. mr president, all in all, shocking violations of human rights. i trust that you will address the vietnamese authorities to this effect through the global forum of the united nations commission on human rights. it is of practical importance that the united nations in hanoi demand access to the central highlands for their special rapporteurs on religious freedom and refugees. the council and the commission must also make their case in geneva.
- mr president, the treaty of amsterdam gave the european union the legal basis to take measures against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. this is why we adopted a directive here a few years ago against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in, among other things, occupation and employment. in the enlargement process we have very consistently and successfully insisted that the criminalisation of same-sex sexual relations should be abolished before a country could join the european union. we have also repeatedly pointed out in this house that countries such as zimbabwe and egypt, with which the european union has concluded treaties, must put an end to discrimination and the punishment of sexual relations between adults of the same sex. in our reports on human rights in the world and in our own union, we make this point very clear every year. it is therefore only logical that we should also raise this policy in the united nations. last year, as has already been said, brazil presented an initiative to the united nations commission on human rights to include the fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the united nations human rights policy. this year, the proposal will be further elaborated and will therefore be discussed again. part of that elaboration will probably include discussion of discrimination on the basis of gender identity. that is a subject on which the court of justice of the european communities made a very strong ruling last week. my group therefore hopes that the eu delegation will give its full, really full support to this brazilian initiative and also work together to develop it further. in any case, together with the member states of the european union which are members of the commission on human rights, we must prevent any attempt by countries to undermine this initiative again.
- mr president, as a child of immigrants, i too am well aware of the need to pay attention to the various aspects of immigration, to the problems identified, but also to the opportunities that exist. i can agree with mr moraes' report in general terms. i would like to draw attention to the connection between the three vital issues mentioned by the rapporteur in recital 1. the need for migration to the european union, improving integration and cooperation with countries of origin. first of all, i do not see the need for migration to the european union in the context of ageing. the recruitment of migrant workers cannot be a solution as long as there is a labour reserve in the european union. i would also like to make a comment on the second question. it is precisely the need to improve integration. in the netherlands, the debate is very intense, but as the rapporteur rightly says, integration is linked to a whole range of domestic factors. these include social context, education and language skills. it is precisely because of this that a european policy cannot be effective and that labour immigration and integration should be a national priority. paragraph 28 calls attention to the problems that may arise in the area of health and reproduction. i recognize the need for this. i must emphasize, however, that the promotion of abortion provocatus cannot be discussed here. i would like to hear from the rapporteur what he intends to do with this paragraph. i also believe that extending the definition of family in this context will not promote integration. this is an extension of the integration problem rather than a solution. these reservations do not, however, remove the need for cooperation with the countries of origin. nor is there any consultation between the member states of the union. the need to improve the situation of immigrants and their place in the labour market is clear.
- mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur. you usually do that, but i think it's particularly appropriate now. the rapporteur has indeed tried to deal specifically with the position of migrants on the labour market. i think he has succeeded in doing so, but unfortunately not entirely, because others have come up with all sorts of misleading amendments. i would like to mention in particular amendment no 13, which says something like that anyone who has paid even a little tax somewhere should automatically be entitled to a residence permit. i think that you cannot talk about this whole issue unless you assume that europe, with 450 million people, cannot be a home for 10 times as many people living outside europe. you can't, and if you don't accept that, it's gonna be very difficult. the rapporteur has of course accepted that and therefore speaks of 'managing migration'. that automatically means you're doing something about it, you're in control. i think that's very good in itself. if you'd stick to that, this is a very nice report. i therefore strongly disagree with those behind me who have said that it is all nonsense and aerial cycling. that's not true. the dangerous aerial cycling is on the other side of this house, where they want to give rights that cannot be respected. if you cannot provide employment, there is no point in giving rights. you're like those rich people of old who had a nice view from their houses and didn't care that the poor had to live in the slums, because that's where you're going to end up. if you want to, you should say so. then you have to say that we do have to admit everyone and then we'll look at the consequences. that's the problem we have in the background here. the rapporteur has shown that he is aware of this. the rapporteur has also shown that he is trying to avoid this, but unfortunately there are still followers in his own party - and in some other parties too - of those old aristocrats who thought that everyone should have rights, but who were not prepared to draw the consequences of this in their own circles and took them out on others. that leads to the amplification of the misery we see in america, and that is what we want to avoid. we don't have to talk about that at all. finally, as regards european citizenship. that is what the treaty provides for, and it is very strange to mention that in a few words here. that would require a treaty amendment. but we have declared our agreement to the convention and that is not what is in it. it would be very strange if we were to deal with that in this report.
in this communication, the commission assesses progress in the fight against illegal immigration. the commission is taking stock of what has happened so far and is looking to set out the lines for the future. it also discusses a number of issues which it considers essential for the establishment of effective policies. i would like to mention a few of them. first of all, there is the visa policy, where the commission rightly insists on the speedy completion of the visa information system. the fraud-proofing of documents is vital for a secure system and therefore a clear choice of one or more biometric identifiers to be stored in the system is necessary. the commission is proposing a european border guard under its control. that's too much for us. i agree with mr sörensen on that. the management of the external borders remains a matter of principle for the member states. cooperation is necessary, but it can also be done in a less far-reaching way than the commission proposes. the commission rightly stresses the importance of a common return policy for the credibility of european immigration and asylum policy, but i do not see the link that seems to be made between the authorisation of legal immigration and the direct take-back of asylum seekers and illegal immigration. i would also like to stress with the rapporteur, mr pirker, that only the member states have the right to take measures on whether or not to allow legal immigration. the council's proposal to agree quotas for legal immigration has not convinced me yet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the option of not allowing legal immigration should remain open to individual member states in any case. finally, i fully support the commission's wish that the budgetary dimension of the solidarity principle be recognised in the field of immigration and border control, as long as this principle is also recognised in other areas such as asylum policy and the reception of refugees.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other people who have worked on the report. i think it is very important that we have come to the conclusion that further research is needed. i regret in itself that this in-depth examination was not carried out in parallel with the discussions with the member states, because it might have saved time. but since this is the case, i think mrs glase is quite right in saying that we cannot expect that with the proposed amendment. so i guess it just can't be. mr president, we are dealing with a very important directive. why is this directive so important? for that, we need to go back in time. there have been two important periods. there was a period when a lot of people came to work on the continent, particularly from britain, and there was a period when a lot of people came to work, mainly from eastern europe. both periods were troubled. at that time there was a genuine social policy in germany, which is now, i think, somewhat weakened, but at that time there was still a social policy. then the legislation on dismissals was devised and this case arose at european level. i agree that the practical application is far from what it should be, but we must recognize that this is ultimately a matter for national governments. we can insist that it be much better - and i also believe that this issue is not given enough priority - but i would also like to give a warning. i have recently been on a working visit to the east of the netherlands and we have seen that the new enlargement will lead to new problems which we can very appropriately solve if we apply the idea and the principles of this directive. if we do not, we can indeed expect some problems. not because people want to, but because there are always people who are looking for loopholes in the law and perhaps taking advantage of them, and that then provokes all kinds of unpleasant reactions. so i think we have to be very careful for the next two years. i think that the member states must improve the practical application of the existing directive, but i also think that the commission - and we too - must insist that this matter be properly dealt with, because otherwise we are endangering the actual, practical application of enlargement in the field of labour markets. we must not forget that, because that is very dangerous. this is a matter which is being grossly underestimated and i am concerned about that. it is thought that not applying these kinds of rules is not terribly important in the long run, but it leads to the deterioration of social systems. it also leads to a decline in respect for the law outside, because people think that if they can get away with it in this area, they can get away with it elsewhere. it is therefore a dangerous point and it is clear that this issue must be pursued.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, the other members and, of course, the commissioner and his staff, because it was a difficult birth. the aim was to simplify the 15 existing directives, which will lead to greater legal certainty, but above all to greater dynamism in labour mobility. i think that is necessary in order to optimise the internal market, which is a cornerstone of the european union. it is still lacking, because there are still virtual borders that impede this mobility. i therefore welcome this directive, which may help to improve labour mobility. i also thank mr zappalà for the constructive way in which he has tried to convert the complex proposals that were there into a workable and improved situation, i hope, by means of compromise amendments. but there are also a number of criticisms from my side and from the liberal group. for example, the time criterion. we believe that the duration of training should not be so much a consideration, since that is of less importance, but the quality of training. we should therefore have a system of points to indicate the quality of education, because i can imagine that in one country a degree takes four years and in another five or six years, and the quality is the same. however, the proposal with the time criterion would still give it a different level. i think that is not good and i hope that my amendment no 12, which is now in the preamble, will eventually be incorporated into the legislative text, possibly after consultation with the rapporteur. i also believe that the rights and duties of professions with a certain responsibility and responsibility in public health should be strengthened. i am thinking here of the medical and social-medical professions. i think we should make these professions subject to registration. i am thinking in particular of the requirements imposed in the member state where one comes to work, for example compulsory insurance against civil liability. i hope we can find a way to make that work. secondly, and i think this is an important aspect, access to the labour market. the commission proposal states that you must have worked for two years in the last ten years. in the legal affairs committee, that has changed to two years over the last five years. i think that's discriminatory for a number of groups. for example, for women who start a family, have children and then re-enter the labour market. they would then have to work in a member state for two years before they could enter europe. i would urge this house to stick to the commission's proposal of two years in the last ten years. i shall also be calling for a majority vote on that. i also think it is good that there are advisory platforms, but i would urge that this should not be extended to national platforms, because that would make the whole thing too complex. it would be a polish national day to come to an opinion. i think we should stick to the commission's proposal to organise it at european level. finally, mr president, i hope that this directive will be adopted by a large majority so that we can make the internal market even better than it is as soon as possible.
unlike previous speakers, i shall concentrate on the directive for which mrs kauppi is the rapporteur. tax evasion and avoidance is widespread and has a strong cross-border dimension. cigarette smuggling, vat carousels, black bank accounts, these are just a few examples from the arsenal of those who do not want to give the emperor what is the emperor's. in the european union, but also with switzerland and the balkans, for example, joint efforts to monitor effectively taxpayers operating in several member states should be sought diligently. the possibilities for controls by two or more member states provided for in this directive are therefore of great importance in conjunction with one another. we are therefore talking about improving cooperation between the tax authorities of each member state. this is entirely consistent with a national prerogative for both tax legislation and taxation. tax legislation is a national responsibility and should remain so given the closer interconnection with the social order and culture within each of the member states. in this context, it is extremely curious that the debate is not about an effective approach to tax fraud but about the question of what legal basis this directive should have. the european parliament has rightly accepted article 95 as the basis for the application of the codecision procedure in similar cases. this is not a question of the content of tax legislation but of implementing provisions relating to administrative cooperation which is necessary in the internal market. what mrs kauppi predicted in the explanatory statement to her report has now happened: the council has recently submitted a formal proposal to amend the legal basis. i would call this a pavlov reaction, again the council rejects codecision without clear reasoning. now that parliament's position has been confirmed on 2 september, it is feared that this proposal will also be referred back to the court of justice. unnecessary effort and expense and, above all, possible long delay in this much needed improved cooperation between tax authorities. i dare the council to leap over its own shadow. back to the real issue, more effective controls on taxpayers operating across borders. the tax-avoiding fast guys come and go at a certain establishment at a fast pace. traditional intelligence - that is, data exchange - certainly cannot keep up. if improper use and abuse of tax legislation is detected by a joint team of auditors from the countries concerned, a 'lick-on-stake' approach is possible. with the accession of 10 new member states, the need for transnational inspection teams will undoubtedly increase further. the open borders to countries with still fragile administrative machinery will unfortunately attract fortune-seekers with few scruples, including in the fiscal field. the sooner the tax authorities can act jointly against this, the better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it will not vote for all the amendments tabled, some of which violate the principle of subsidiarity. an example of this is european interference in local elections.
i would like to join all those who have thanked mrs echerer so much. i would like to do the same with regard to the way in which we cooperate. perhaps there is a role for us in her tv programs in the future. who knows? i hope that they are well protected in terms of intellectual property rights. the fact that the report was adopted unanimously by the legal affairs committee shows that everyone agrees. the commissioner's encouraging words will also, i believe, lead to improved regulation, which is particularly important in terms of transparency and legal certainty, and in particular democratic control, because clarity prevents misunderstanding. we are all talking about the rights holders, but i think it is also very important to mention the rights users. i can still remember an example from last year when many companies in the netherlands suddenly received a letter from the reprorecht foundation that they had to pay a hefty bill for the copies they made. but without that, it was explained what that actually meant. it creates a chilling effect and unrest. i think that this legislation can make it clearer on what certain costs are based, why certain costs have to be made and for whom they are intended. the commissioner has already indicated that 5 to 7% of the gross domestic product - and that is a lot - is the result of products and services defined, governed and protected by copyright and related rights. that means that we are talking about a substantial part of our internal market activities. we must be clear about this and give it structure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this problem can be solved with these opinions, if they are codified. enlargement, as mr medina ortega has already pointed out, is also an important aspect of this issue. the political history in the accession countries has never led to clear protection of copyright holders and therefore i think it is important that support is provided on the ground. the rapporteur has also stressed this in her oral amendment. we, the liberals, support her in this. in conclusion, we think this is a good initiative and we hope that the commission will also adopt the amendment i have tabled, in particular the one to propose a clear evaluation after three years to see whether the legislation actually works and whether protection is provided. mr president, i am going to be in exactly three minutes and i will not be able to continue this afternoon.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/2008) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in haiti. what does that have to do with the dramatic situation in zimbabwe of president robert mugabe, the subject of our debate? well, buch's essay is an open letter to the current south african head of state thabo mbeki. an old acquaintance of the writer's. buch denounces mbeki's attitude towards the regimes of president aristide of haiti and president mugabe of zimbabwe. i 'm not going to lie . "why did you not stand up for respect for human rights in haiti and why do your protests against the continuing violation of human rights in zimbabwe sound so muted?" like mr buch, the present resolution explicitly addresses south africa to the ever-deteriorating situation in zimbabwe. council and commission, let us hear from you! buch asks mbeki directly: "or do you want to keep the path chosen by mugabe - the white minority as a scapegoat for their own mistakes - open for south africa as well"? i also expect the european union to take a clear stand in the forthcoming talks with the african union.
mr president, i would like to convey to this house the congratulations of the netherlands haiti platform on the joint motion for a resolution on haiti. at the same time, as a christian and a contributor, i practice the wise bible proverb: let other lips praise you. in my contacts with the workers in the field, my question is always: how can the european union really help? i would like to join the suggestions of the dedicated haitian experts to the council and commission. firstly, support for programmes for local food production and improvement of health care. secondly, close monitoring of the human rights situation on the ground by the european delegation in port-au-prince and accurate reporting to this parliament. finally, the promotion of a constructive dialogue between the government, the opposition and civil society, as set out in paragraph 3 of the draft resolution. mr president, the attacks this week on several radio stations in haiti, the main source of information for the population, once again underline the urgency of european action in haiti.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it's a good report. i share his objections to the most extraordinary procedure which has been followed here to have a debate in this parliament on competition policy. i believe that a debate on such an important part of community law should be conducted through the front door and not the back door. the commission has made a major effort to change competition policy, but unfortunately not for the better. as rapporteur on merger control, i have already pointed out that i think it is wrong to equate the commission's powers of investigation under the merger control regulation with those under the cartel regulations. mergers are not necessarily criminal, cartel formation is. i hope the commission will consider reversing this decision. the commission's persistence in shifting from the market dominance test to the slc test, despite the opinion of the european parliament, is also very regrettable. the market also needs clear and unambiguous competition legislation and a reduction in administrative burdens. the commission has also been active in the area of the environment. if we look at the current development of the distribution regulation in the automobile sector in the netherlands, i see a trend towards dominance by certain parties, in particular importers. of course, that could never have been the intention, which is why the impact assessment can be very important in advance. i am currently working on a report on institutionalised impact assessments for european regulation and i expect that in the future the european commission will also be carrying out impact assessments of competition law. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). i have heard reports that in certain sectors in the acceding countries, for example in the banking sector in the czech republic, the levels of state aid as recorded in the state aid scoreboard are not correct and should be adjusted upwards. i hope that the commission can make clear what action it intends to take if it is found that it has been misinformed by the applicant countries about the state aid granted. finally, mr president, i can tell you that i do not agree with the amendments tabled by the socialist group. the amendments they propose concern policy areas which are not part of the european commission's competition policy. these proposals would lead to confusion and legal uncertainty.
the rapporteur. mr president, the elections are coming up and i am being asked more and more: the european parliament is actually proposing something, do you have anything to say? i think this is a case in point and i will go into it a little more. the council and the commission initially had very high ambitions, especially after 9/11. but as time went on, it faded away like snow before the sun. there were all sorts of sensitivities about sovereignty, about legal obstacles, in short, the council did not dare to take a firm step and the european parliament was clearly of a different opinion. we have a clear objective, namely progressive integration into european airspace in the interests of the citizen. that is necessary and in consultation with the council we have finally achieved a clear commitment from the council to achieve that objective. that's a first step in the right direction. the main points we have agreed with the council in the conciliation are of course on implementation. the service providers must meet high standards and must be monitored. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air transport sector is not affected by the crisis. i think it is important to be able to monitor this from the european parliament. we have also reached agreement on the charging regimes. the incentives can be used to encourage better use of airspace. the subsidy must be reduced and, moreover, everything must be made more transparent. we have also made a commitment to clarity as regards the future. when will we see legislation on the licensing of air traffic controllers? what is the point at which the ideas of the single sky in the upper air strata might also apply to the lower air strata? we want to be sure of that. we also welcome the fact that eurocontrol has established itself there. they have worked very hard on this and the debate on this dossier has, i think, also made everyone aware of it and that is good. a second point of difference was, of course, civil-military cooperation. i think that the greatest merit of my colleague mr fava is that he has succeeded in getting a clear reference in the text to the need for civil-military cooperation. parliament is committed to this and has always stressed this in the negotiations. it may also be a step towards better and more military cooperation in the future. we have also succeeded in making the importance of the exchange of information clear in parliament. and that goes for all service providers, including the military. we also welcome the commitment of the member states to cooperate with the concept of flexible use of airspace across borders; that will save a lot of delays. my colleague mr fava has already dealt with this in detail. finally, the point where mediation almost stumbled, the cross-border airspace blocks. i think we have reached a reasonable compromise with article 5 (6). for me personally, that was one of the most important points, because in order to make progress something had to be included in the text to provide for conflict mediation, otherwise it is too easy to hide behind someone else's back. i have put a lot of effort into this on behalf of my colleagues and i am quite satisfied with the outcome. member states are obliged to take into account the opinion of the commission and to use that opinion as a basis for resolving conflicts concerning the creation of cross-border airspace blocks. what has helped us to get through, commissioner, is the commission's promise, in the form of a written statement, to take action to review the five-year procedure if no clear progress is made in the re-division of airspace. this provides the crucial impetus needed to make european airspace safer and more efficient. this is important for the service providers, for the airspace users and, of course, for passengers. it is also badly needed with air traffic increasing by more than 2 per cent a year at the moment. commissioner, you can be sure that the european parliament has acted in the interests of the citizen and that we will closely monitor the progress made and take action if the member states fail to do so. i have to thank my colleagues for the excellent cooperation and the services they have provided. the negotiations with the council have also always been conducted in a pleasant and constructive atmosphere, with a lot of hard work and understanding of each other's points of view, but that is how it should be. i have considered it an honour to contribute my part to a safer and more efficient aviation in the interests of the citizen. i would also like to point out how important the role of the european parliament has been, because i think we have come up with a very good proposal together with the council.
the rapporteur. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to approve the revision of the packaging directive. on 4 december parliament's conciliation committee approved the agreement with the council by a large majority. as rapporteur, i am very pleased with this and i will explain briefly why. there were two major issues and five minor ones. i'll start with the minor points of dispute. first, the definition of packaging. you remember the lobby and the discussion about flower pots, cd boxes, mascara holders and makeup jars. parliament wanted to avoid continuing the debate on flower pots. the solution that was found is pragmatic. no new products in the annexes, but the commission asks to give priority to products which are the subject of legal dispute: cd boxes and flower pots, toilet rolls and that sort of thing. the council accepted the substance of parliament's amendment on the basic definition of packaging. the second point was prevention, and that was an important point for parliament. the environmental impact of packaging should be minimised. the main thrust of this was the introduction of a packaging environment indicator. parliament wants to encourage pilot projects. the amendment tabled by parliament at second reading has been almost completely accepted. in the debate on the thematic strategy on recycling and waste prevention, which has already begun, it will certainly build on this. the third point is the report. the parliament's amendment on the scope of the commission's report on the implementation of the directive has been almost completely accepted by the council. the fourth point: the voluntary agreements. the council has fully accepted the possibility of reducing the transposition of certain provisions by means of agreements between the competent authorities and the sectors of industry concerned. this is a point of great importance for the netherlands. the last item in the series of small items concerns the target dates. the existing packaging directive provides for a limited deferral for greece, ireland and portugal. parliament was willing to grant a delay from 2008 to 2010, the council wanted 2012 and we agreed on 2011. the two most difficult points were the amendment on the new member states and the recent judgments of the court of justice of the european communities. firstly, the new member states. the question was who would set the target dates for the acceding countries. parliament wanted the commission to come forward with a proposal which would then be decided upon by parliament and the council. the council wanted to deal with this issue by means of a declaration on bilateral arrangements with each acceding country on the basis of article 57 of the accession treaty. parliament vigorously defended its position at second reading. the result is that the directive contains a clear statement of reasons. the requests for exemption from the rules of the countries concerned are listed in the report and the final decision will be taken in accordance with the relevant legal procedures. in the view of parliament this represents a considerable improvement on the original council position. a particularly difficult problem was the impact of recent court of justice judgments on the directive's recovery objective. the interpretation of the concept of recovery by the court of justice in recent judgments has been the subject of considerable debate. in these judgments the court of justice concluded that waste incineration with energy recovery is not recovery if this is not the main objective of the operation, with the consequence that some member states may now or in the future unexpectedly find themselves in a situation where they infringe the directive. there was a difference of opinion on the question of how to deal with the matter from a procedural point of view. the consequences of the judgments were not addressed in the common position or in parliament's amendments at second reading. the compromise reached was to amend the relevant parts of the text of the original directive. it was clarified that waste incinerated in incineration plants with energy recovery could be included in the objective of the directive. i think that, in general, parliament can be very satisfied with this result and i would of course recommend that everyone vote in favour of the agreement. the vote tomorrow will bring an end to the revision of the packaging directive, but it will not bring an end to the debate on the wider context of recycling, waste prevention and the use of natural resources. the debate in this house has already begun on the thematic strategies put forward by the commission. this agreement on the packaging directive points the way to a new system in the legislation. parliament wanted to put more emphasis on the environmental impact of legislation and a flexible way of working. if all 25 member states impose the same target on recycling and recovery, it will no longer be possible in an enlarged and more diverse union. our discussion of environmental performance in the first reading and of economic costs in the second reading almost inevitably leads to the conclusion that the optimal recycling rates can vary considerably from country to country, and ultimately we must go in that direction. but for that we must first set clear recycling targets, because that is ultimately the aim of this legislation. the aim of this legislation is further sustainable development, a concept which we must give full play to. today, with the revised directive, we are taking a step towards modernising packaging policy. a packaging environmental indicator can encourage the use of more sustainable packaging. packaging does not have to be an environmental problem in the long term, but contributes to sustainable development. continuous innovation is the best guarantee of keeping jobs in the packaging sector and i hope that the revision of the packaging directive will make a small contribution to this. finally, i would like to thank all the groups for their cooperation and to thank the excellent mediation team, led by the very competent vice-president, mr renzo imbeni.
mr president, in march 2003 when the committee on budgetary control was about to vote on the resolution giving discharge to the committee of the regions for 2001, i received a telephone call from the internal auditor of the committee of the regions, mr robert mccoy, as did several of my colleagues. mr mccoy had alarming news for us: the information provided to parliament by the committee of the regions in the course of the discharge procedure was incorrect. the next day, the budgetary control committee decided that the vote should be postponed to give mr mccoy a chance to present his views. he did so, and issued what he called a cry for help. he said that his views had been misrepresented by the secretary-general and the finance director of the committee of the regions, and that, despite a series of reforms, the cor still flouted basic financial rules, in particular in relation to tendering procedures and members’ expenses. as a result of mr mccoy’s intervention, the budgetary control committee, and subsequently plenary, decided to postpone discharge for the cor and called on that institution to commission – and i quote – 'a detailed, full and independent audit, to be carried out by an external and recognised institution – preferably by the european court of auditors – on the committee's overall budget implementation, as well as the financial and administrative management; considers that the audit should examine, inter alia, the areas listed above and attest to the sound financial management of the institution'. at the same time i decided to refer the case to olaf. the results of these investigations were shocking. in the case of the court of auditors it was shocking because we received a one-page document consisting of 300 words which basically gave the cor a clean bill of health. this was not what we had asked for. the olaf report painted a quite different picture. it had found an endemic culture of unprofessionalism and improvisation. it uncovered evidence of tampering with tendering procedures by cor officials and false expenses claims by members – including former presidents – of the cor. it went on to say that the efforts of the administration had been focused on discouraging or destabilising the messenger of the bad news, in this case the financial controller, rather than to change things for the benefit of the cor. mr mccoy was therefore right when he came to see us and he deserves an unreserved apology for the treatment he has been subjected to, and applause for his courage in coming forward. the cor has now begun to improve things: the secretary-general has been removed from his post for different reasons – although the bungled process of his appointment was also likely to be a result of the administrative chaos at the cor; the president of the cor has announced a preliminary enquiry into the opening of disciplinary proceedings; a reform process has been set in motion involving all cor staff who wish to be involved and a former member of the court of auditors is to advise the cor on the adequacy of the reforms. for these reasons the cor and its president deserve the benefit of the doubt. that is why my group will be voting to grant discharge tomorrow, but will do so with very little enthusiasm. (applause)
president. - the previous speaker, mr michiel van hulten, has already explained the history of this affair of not granting discharge to the committee of the regions in april, and i think that was also done in the resolution by mrs avilés perea. she did a very good job. following the non-discharge, investigations were carried out by two bodies: by the european court of auditors and by olaf. i must say that i am somewhat disappointed by the court's inquiry. if thorough research can be expressed in one or two sentences, i don't know what thorough research is. it's been a, to my taste, a bit of a superficial investigation. i have more admiration for the olaf report, which has looked at this more thoroughly. there have been a number of abuses; the big hope is that they're going to go away now. in this respect i agree with previous speakers who say that the role of the financial controller is essential. it was a clear sign that, when he had brought the abuses to light, one of the first actions of the committee of the regions administration was to remove an employee from his staff. i am therefore very pleased that this parliament has approved an amendment by the liberals in the 2004 budget to give two additional staff to that financial controller for the coming financial year. we believe that the role of the financial controller is essential in any european institution. it cannot be stressed enough that this person must act with complete independence, apart from the hierarchy, in order to express his judgment. we will support the critical tone of mrs avilés perea's resolution, because we think she has done a good job. my group will not, however, vote for the discharge to be given to the committee of the regions. we feel that in a year in which so much has gone wrong, we can justify doing so.
i agree with mr kuhne, and i will get to the point, given the late hour. unlike the previous item on the agenda, the committee of the regions, we did grant discharge to the commission last april. i was then allowed to speak on behalf of the group and to put forward our arguments. one of the arguments was that the commission was on the right track with the reform. well, we still think that. the ink on that resolution was hardly dry when the eurostat affair broke loose. that was not a fluke. eurostat is not the first best part of the commission. it produces extremely important statistics on the stability pact, on the contributions of the member states and if that is not going well, what is the reliability of the statistics themselves? so it was not without reason that many people were very excited by these revelations. we think that the commission has generally been very diligent in trying to solve the problems of eurostat. but there are still a number of problems and several people have already pointed them out. first of all, how should the role of olaf be handled? i have always found it strange that we heard from the secretary-general that we were asked by olaf to keep it secret and not to tell anyone. i know of few officials who have to keep something in this area a secret from their political masters. there is no such thing in any administration. officials should inform their political superiors fully and i think that is clearly the lesson we have to learn from this affair. the liberal group is committed to political responsibility. the fact that a commissioner did not know something does not mean that he is not politically responsible. we wanted to put that in an amendment to the resolution. we shall vote on this tomorrow and we also think that if the hearings on the new commissioners are held later - but it will depend on the new parliament - we should question them on this point. the explanation given by president prodi at the beginning of his term of office on the individual responsibility of commissioners has not, in our view, been entirely satisfactory in this case. and we hope that this will come out in the new hearings, as i said, because we must be able to explain to the great european politicians that someone in europe is responsible for something.
president, last year the edd group did not agree to grant the european commission discharge for its budgetary management in 2001. the facts now confirm unequivocally that this was right. a few weeks after the discharge vote, information about the eurostat affair which the commission had withheld came to light. combined with a flawed accounting system, slow administrative reforms and insufficient internal controls, the situation was full. like president prodi, commissioners solbes and schreyer showed in word and deed that they had not learnt enough from the forced resignation of their predecessors five years ago. the commission is trying to impress the european parliament with its fine words, its big reports and its big promises, but there is no visible result in the internal reform of the european commission. it was only in the second half of 2003, when it became clear that a longer delay was not possible, that the commission finally took action. the conclusion must be that this commission is running on empty in its budgetary management and is not taking up its political responsibility. finally, i would remind you that we as a parliament owe a great deal to the courageous whistleblowers van buitenen and mrs andreasen in the european commission. they are entitled to full restitution. we do not forget that there are many dedicated and unbending officials in the commission. but unfortunately, they are thwarted by an internal hierarchy that wants to serve itself rather than the european citizens. a few bad apples in the basket are a disgrace to all the good fruit.
mr president, the textile sector will be transformed next year when quotas will disappear after more than thirty years. the european union's import tariffs are now among the lowest in the world. this requires other countries with a large textile sector and a large market to open up their markets in a similar way. the rapporteur and commissioner lamy are right to advocate this. secondly, after the abolition of quantitative restrictions, there will be a temptation to restrict imports in an alternative way for protectionist reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. how does the commissioner intend to prevent this? it is also necessary to reduce non-tariff barriers, such as unnecessary bureaucratic import procedures. thirdly, labelling and certification. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national laboratories for the development of new methods of laboratory testing. what concrete steps does the commissioner envisage to make this more effective, particularly as regards the production method? finally, mr president, a comment on the trading position of developing countries. it is not just access to the european market that is needed to improve their trading position. the european union must also stop disrupting the commodity market by dumping cotton. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ergo: the world price of a bale of cotton has fallen by half since 1990.
the new world order, mr president, requires a stronger united nations, but at the same time prevents it from being established. more than ever, major global problems require a global approach and therefore effective decision-making and implementation. the un needs to be fundamentally reformed to reflect the new relationships and to adequately fulfil its many tasks. everyone agrees on this by now and then it doesn't happen because everyone disagrees on how it should happen. it is hypocritical to embrace the un millennium declaration if we are not then prepared to give these hands and feet and to risk our necks for it. un reforms are not just technical, but often involve a redistribution of power, and that is where things go wrong all the time. for example, the reform of the security council has been discussed for more than 10 years without any result. the united states is by far the most powerful player on the world stage and has little need for multilateralism because it sees it as a limitation of its power. other countries, such as france and the united kingdom, refuse to give up their privileges from the old world order. potential permanent members shall not grant each other a privileged position. fixed seats for continents only work if the regional powers can agree on a rotation mechanism. the proposed double veto system is better than the current one, but it does not offer a real solution, especially if the number of permanent seats is still being increased. it would be better to use a european model of differential voting weighting and thus abolish the veto system. i do not think that the political coordination of the european union in the un is as bad as mr laschet suggests in his excellent report. in the general assembly, there is usually a consensus on the eu. nevertheless, europe is hopelessly divided in major crises such as the iraq affair. the main reason, i believe, is the increased rivalry between france, the united kingdom and germany. a legal entity or even an eu minister cannot create a common foreign policy as long as the major european states continue to compete for the leadership of the european union. the laschet report contains many interesting recommendations for intensifying relations between the european union and the un. some are very valuable, but together they may be very much for the short term. we must be careful not to create a new un/eu bureaucracy. i think that our parliament is there primarily to control and not so much to conduct diplomacy itself. the enlarged european union can and must make a substantial contribution to the much needed reform of the united nations. political necessity is unquestionable, but what we still lack is the political courage to shape the new world order effectively within the un.
mr president, the present report by our esteemed colleague mr laschet is intended to push mankind towards a kind of world government. only in this way would it be possible to create peace, prosperity and justice with the un as the central, vital and decisive centre. multilateralism is being embraced as the new political gospel. is not this vision of the future based on a gross overestimation of mankind? after all, humans, you and i, are prone to all kinds of evil. true peace and justice do not come from humans. they are to be gained only by a sincere faith in and unconditional obedience to god, in gracious obedience to his beneficial commands as set forth in the bible, the word of god. jesus christ bore the punishment that brings us true peace. that is a point which is all too easily forgotten and which i should therefore like to make the first point. the rapporteur, following his high-minded approach, calls cooperation between the european union and the un a cornerstone of the eu's foreign policy. in the institutionally reformed un of the future, he is certain that the eu will have a legal personality in the future. the future eu foreign minister will, under the future european constitution, have to fulfil the future mandate on behalf of the eu. the security council will also have to be enlarged with permanent members, one for each continent except australia. that's weird! why is this vast continent excluded? perhaps because of the fear of a double veto? instead of britain and france, the eu should be represented on behalf of europe. mr president, this is an extremely premature approach. the eu has no constitution, no legal personality at the un and no mandated european foreign minister. the recent past has also made it clear that both in the igc and in the security council european unity seems further away than ever. so it won't work. i therefore call on my colleagues to support amendments nos 1 and 10 and thus return to the reality of everyday life. in conclusion, mr president, i have two comments. firstly, only once in paragraph 17, paragraph 2, and then in brackets, does the most effective and proven transatlantic security organization, nato, appear. you know as well as i do that when it really comes down to it we would rather see our security guaranteed by a reliable and determined nato than entrust it to an ever-wavering often indecisive and divided un security council. nato is a better cornerstone for the eu's foreign and security policy than the un. in conclusion, multilateralism is good but never unconditional. we have seen too often that nation states, under the guise of multilateralism, have pursued their own interests.
mr president, i support this proposal because it gives us a chance to find a solution to this very cumbersome dossier.
mr president, my speech is about the safety of members and the measures taken by the european parliament. on 19 january i left the parliament in brussels at about 8 p.m. by the wiertzstraat exit, heading towards rue de wavre. i was less than 100 metres from parliament when i stopped at the traffic lights. i heard a huge bang and my windshield was smashed in the passenger side. my bag, which was on the floor, was grabbed. i can assure you, a lady's purse really does have it all. tickets, passports and so on. this is a matter of course which could happen anywhere, but to have it happen so close to parliament is extremely serious. what i find incomprehensible is that this happens repeatedly. i can mention a few female dutch parliamentarians who have been through it. i went back to the european parliament, where i was very well received. i have no complaints about that. the security came, but - you probably don't know - i couldn't make international calls after that. so i couldn't call to block my credit cards, which i think is a first requirement, you'll understand. then the police were called and i was allowed to go with them to the police station. i just wish i could follow the police with my broken-down car. i came to the police station, where there was a policeman who spoke flemish, but a flemish that did not resemble dutch. nice guy, nothing wrong with him, but that was very complicated. of course, since i had nothing left - no money, no driver's license - i was promised a ride to carglass, but it never showed up. so at about noon, i went to my hotel, where the reception was a little more efficient. the damage is enormous and i would ask you now to ensure that in such a case, at the exits of parliament, calls to foreign countries can be made immediately if a member so wishes. that there is assistance to take me to the police station, because i would have been a dane who could not understand dutch at all or a national from any other country. of course, it is also very useful if you have some money to take a taxi. i also believe that it is extremely necessary to improve the protection of the safety of members of parliament. as i have already said, the damage is enormous. i will not say the amount, but i do expect the european parliament to ensure full reimbursement.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a somewhat complicated situation. i think it is very remarkable that some speakers from the kingdom in particular are over-emphasizing the debate. that is not strange either, and i shall come back to that in a moment. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for having written an excellent report. everyone knows that our committee voted very narrowly and that the vote could have been different. the commission is aware that there are differences of opinion in this parliament too. but we have to look at each of these ideas very carefully. it is only an owninitiative report, but it was necessary. we were actually here to discuss a revised directive. i think there is no doubt that the revision of this directive is very much needed. i'll also argue why. the commission is rather late and i support the comments made by mr hughes on the communication submitted. the material submitted and the published study are informative but not conclusive. people who had been doing this for a long time knew what was going on. i would like to say that i am not against the commission's proposal, but i am against the commission's proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are not applied in the member states. of course, not least of all are the employers and especially the whole heavy lobbying that is taking place at the moment. i was called by the british minister for social affairs last thursday afternoon and asked how i had the nerve to table some very strong amendments. i think that's going a little far. i am pleased that he is approaching me, but i do not do business between the potato and the soup, especially since it ignores the existing problems. first of all, with regard to the general individual opt-out. the question we have to ask ourselves is: we want minimum social standards at european level and especially on very important points where even the ilo - i think it was in 1919 - said: you think 48 hours is enough? do we want a minimum? are these arrangements designed to protect safety and health? or do we want to move towards a situation which is slowly but surely beginning to emerge and which i describe as social policy competition between member states? that's what this is about. i'll give you one example. at the moment - and the dutch council of ministers is also represented - there is a debate in the netherlands on the adaptation of dutch legislation on working time to the european minimum system. that is to say, it is also proposed in the netherlands that the 60 hours should no longer be included in a consultation procedure but should be included as a standard procedure. that's going a long way. i know of other countries where this debate is taking place. i think we should not leave this debate to the social partners. they can be consulted on this point, but they should not be decisive, as some amendments suggest on this point. i'll be very brief about the guard duty. that's the problem we have to try to solve. i welcome the commission's proposals, but there is still a lot more to be done. it is not only the doctors, but also the fire brigades, who are currently facing a lot of problems in a number of member states, and i can mention a number of other services. as far as i'm concerned, we need to do business with each other quickly and clearly. i call on the irish and the dutch to give full attention to this thorny problem which we are unlikely to deal with again in the form of a revised directive during this parliamentary term.
to mr titford's relief, the dutch government is not following the example of the united kingdom. it is a different problem. that's what this is about, actually. on the one hand, we have the whole annoying thing of almost becoming a sort of house of commons here, namely that we are only concerned with english, indeed indeed not even uk problems, but english problems. this is of course very annoying, especially for those who are taking part in this debate and who are not from this country. then there is the second difficult point, namely the question of the cases mentioned earlier, the jaeger case, and so on. i really think that the commission has not shown enough leadership so far. it should have been seen that the combination of the interpretation of those cases and the existence of that opt-out would lead to difficulties and undermine the objectives of the directive. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and then there are other things, like people who think, we can use that and actually create additional difficulties, contrary to the directive's purpose. all of that can happen, and then the whole thing starts to unravel. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. we must first of all deal with those points which concern the hospitals, the fire service and a few other things of that kind which are not confined to the united kingdom. then we can talk about the opt-out. that is not reflected sufficiently in our report at the moment and it is certainly not reflected sufficiently in what the commission is saying. it's just a list of options. that seems to indicate that we have a very long process but by then the member states have already made a decision. they've already used that opt-out, and you just don't know what's going on. finally, i myself always consider an opt-out a sign of failure. then you haven't been able to get it all the way around. so that's the problem behind this. i still think we should look at alternatives to that opt-out. but you cannot say that you cannot see this as a separate issue if you do not offer alternatives. if you have no alternative, then you shouldn't say that opt-out is wrong. you have to say: that opt-out is wrong, but i have these alternatives. that is what we should be striving for in the context of this report. this is certainly something that should be pursued in the context of further consultation. first, however, we must close as quickly as possible the gap in the directive, or at least where the member states think it is. we have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and then we can look at that last bit of that second opt-out.
mr president, aid for the development of industry in developing countries is intended to improve the trading position of those countries. i therefore wholeheartedly support the european commission's efforts to achieve a predictable legal framework and to reduce corruption. the commission and the modrow report are less convincing on the reform of state-owned enterprises. firstly, it over-reaches both the policy framework and the range of tasks of the european commission. the commission states that all options must be examined before a developing country chooses to reform a soe. but it itself recognizes that the considerations for reform are political decisions. it is therefore unrealistic to require an objective assessment of the various possibilities. secondly, social policy. the commission's communication and the rapporteur put the demand for social measures in parallel with reforms. that sounds sympathetic, but it's not appropriate. the european community has no competence in the field of employment and social policy in the developing countries. these are outside the scope of technical assistance and european development cooperation. thirdly, mr president, the relationship with the policies of the member states. both the commission communication and the modrow report make little reference to development cooperation in the member states in this area. the sustainable development relationship between a developing country and a member state could be the ideal framework for, for example, providing assistance in the event of job losses. finally, the relationship between state enterprises and poverty reduction. the commission intends to use poverty reduction as a criterion for assessing aid to state-owned enterprises. this is not in keeping with the neutral position of the european commission with regard to private or public property. the criterion should either apply equally to private undertakings or not be applied. in conclusion, mr president, i agree with support for companies in developing countries, but the approach to state-owned enterprises raises important questions.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for his statement. he is now a commissioner with a great deal of experience in the field of epidemics, animal diseases. the big question is: what have we learned from the past few years? one of the main conclusions of the commission for the control of foot-and-mouth disease was that the external borders should be protected. what happened to that conclusion? when i go into, say, amsterdam or dublin i still see a big difference with, say, the united states of america. i don't think the controls have changed much in the last few years. i may be wrong, but i would like to hear from the commissioner what exactly happened. how is it that i read in the newspaper that at schiphol in amsterdam, mats with disinfectant are laid down, but that this is not the case anywhere else in europe? how can it be that belgium is taking different measures? what does the commission officially recommend to the member states and how is that advice followed up? imports from thailand and other countries have been stopped. there were rumours in the dutch press this weekend that chicken meat from the newly acceding countries is entering the european union through a side door. is that true or not? mrs roth-behrendt has already spoken about the need for further research, vaccines and test methods, et cetera. the point is that this parliament has given the commission twice in the last two years the opportunity to use that extra money. not in category 3 for research, but extra in category 1a of the agricultural budget. the commission has taken the liberty of not using that. why not, despite the fact that the same commissioner has stated in this plenary that this would be the case? it was a failure to carry out the wish of the budgetary authority and i wonder why the commission ignored that wish? the following are the main types of crisis management: the commission has already said that there is an emergency plan. i understand that there are indeed certain plans in preparation, but what about human health? the flu vaccine that could help humans is limited. has the commission consulted the member states on how it will be used from the different countries if in another country there is not enough of these resources available? finally, something for the oie. trade is based on trust and cannot be controlled by the food and veterinary office in dublin alone. it depends on the information that countries provide to the oie. it has now emerged that indonesia, vietnam and possibly china have probably waited several months to provide information to the oie. what does the commission intend to do in this context to improve the provision of information so that trade can take place under fair conditions and we do not run the risk of suddenly being confronted with illegal imports of these kinds of products?
commissioner byrne, thank you for your factual statement, but i must say that i am very much concerned about what we are doing. we must, like the liberals, recognize that we do not have one external border, but 15 different ones, where various measures are being taken to prevent the possible importation of avian influenza. we have seen this with foot-and-mouth disease and we must take measures to prevent a similar situation in the future. next, i must have something else of the heart. if our elderly are at risk of getting sick with the flu, there are mass vaccines available. in this situation too, we know that vaccines are needed, but there is no work being done or far too little work being done. the only country that's working on vaccines is italy. i think that the european union as such should make an effort to develop vaccines so that we can also deal with this disease in a humane way.
president. - i thank the commissioner for his introduction. there are actually only a few questions that are of interest to consumers, but also to the sector. the very first question we have to ask is: europe is locked up tight for what we do not want to get in? i sometimes feel sorry for the commissioner, because he can only implement what is agreed in the member states. the order didn't come until february 6th. this means that the system of the european commission to the member states - you cannot always do everything - is probably not working well enough. i wonder what will happen to the meat, because the decision states that 1 january is the date on which imports are no longer allowed. what about meat imported from those countries before that date? the next question. i understand that there is now a problem in the united states as well. it is not the real bird flu as we know it in asia, but it seems to be related. what do we do with these lands? what do the consumers want? he wants to be assured that he's getting a safe product. the consumer also wants to be well informed. the good news is that since you do not normally eat raw meat, chicken in a different formulation or in a different way is not harmful. let us make sure that we have a common information. a number of colleagues have already said something about vaccines. i think that europe should have much more resources and possibilities to act together on this point.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for his explanation, but there is a dutch proverb which says: a donkey doesn't usually bump into the same stone twice. i do not want to compare our commissioner to this animal, but it is very important that the commission responds too late to certain animal disease epidemics. we have seen this with the sme and we see again that the commissioner visited thailand at the beginning of january and during his visit there he said that he was satisfied with the approach and that he thought that there was no case of bird flu. now, a month later, we're in the middle of a global crisis. the cda delegation in the european parliament demands that the commissioner should adopt the approach we have in the netherlands, the so-called veerman approach, at european level: the commission has also proposed a ban on the import of all poultry, including cooked meat, from south-east asia, a ban on the import of ornamental birds, additional controls on flights from asia and disinfection mats at all international airports with direct or indirect connections to asia. that's the only way to get through this crisis right now. i would also like to ask the commissioner to clarify the rumour that there are smes in 26 municipalities in vietnam. we can be there now and only now to ensure that, if this is the case, we take appropriate action and not wait until the disaster in south-east asia occurs again without taking appropriate action. we are in favour of supporting the asian countries in the fight against avian influenza, but we cannot allow ourselves to invest resources in this area while a number of countries are ignoring the quarantine measures. my final point, mr president, is that the european commission should initiate a global debate on the control of animal diseases. preventive vaccination should also gradually become a global topic of discussion, both from the point of view of public and animal health.
mr president, i have a point of order. i asked the commissioner about the rumor of an outbreak of mers in 26 municipalities in vietnam where bird flu is also prevalent. i have not received an answer to the commissioner's question. i wonder if the commissioner has any information on this.
mr president, the commissioner has been very elaborate in his answer, but he has avoided answering one essential question. under heading 1a in the 2003 and 2004 budgets this parliament and the council have twice provided for extra funds to be set aside for research into better vaccines and testing methods. the commission was at liberty to decline that wish of parliament. in the light of present developments, is the commission prepared to investigate the possibility of using funds from heading 1a for research into vaccines and testing methods and inform this house as soon as possible of the outcome of these deliberations? it is urgent that we do something, and the commission should not ignore the resolutions of this parliament in this respect, nor the budget itself.
i would like to congratulate mr garot on his report. he is one of the colleagues in this parliament whom i hold in high esteem. but if i look at his report, my criticism in this case is that the socialist angle is too dominant. there has been too much emphasis on premiums and too little on the competitiveness of agriculture and horticulture. the general trend is that the european debate on agricultural income is dominated too much by the question of how much premium is received and too little by the question of what market problems there are. to start with the premiums. the netherlands receives far too little of the european budget. the netherlands accounts for 7% of agricultural production in the european union but receives only 2.1% of the agricultural budget and 1% of the rural development budget. and then there's the whole unbalanced thing. of course, there is a cause to be found. the negotiations in berlin in 1999 were conducted by kok and zalm. the fact that they had no feeling for agriculture and horticulture is not only the reason why the dutch countryside does not get what it is entitled to, it is also the real reason for the high net dutch contribution to the european union. the best remedy for this excessive contribution is that the netherlands should receive a substantially higher amount for agriculture and rural development. there is also a second point which has not been highlighted in the development of agricultural incomes, namely the position of the so-called free products. the high environmental, food safety and animal welfare standards in europe affect the cost of meat, vegetables and potatoes, for example, and leave european agriculture behind in terms of cost worldwide. that is the real reason for a number of crises, for example in the pig industry at the moment. my proposal is that all new european legislative proposals affecting agriculture and horticulture should be subject to an income test to see what the real impact of that legislation is on rural workers.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the rapporteur, mr garot, rightly points out in his report that all these fine words are worth nothing at the end of the day if we do not provide a reasonable income for the farmer. the interpretation of statistical income data is not simple. mr garot concludes that agricultural incomes in the union have risen by 7% in recent years. mr president, i have asked the researchers who provided these figures whether they are correct. they state that these figures do not take into account production levies, interest payable, rent and labour costs. if you look at what the farmer actually feels in his pocket, between 1995 and 2001 agricultural incomes in the eu did not increase but fell by 6%. the resolution rightly calls for the maintenance of price and market policies and the control of production that goes with them. in addition, the expansion of supply is not by definition beneficial to agricultural income. the extension of the milk quota is further reducing the price of milk and putting unnecessary pressure on the incomes of dairy farmers. the wto summit in cancún has failed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. agriculture is not a bicycle factory that can simply respond to market demand. we still need protection. in this respect, developing countries have benefited more from preferential market access to the eu than from unrestricted free trade. it is a pity that a socialist, who naturally believes in a society which he can control, should accept the liberalization of agriculture as a natural phenomenon. the rapporteur fears that the european union's agricultural aid will lose its legitimacy in the eyes of the wto. i don't share that fear, because like football, it's not just about technique, it's about strategy. otherwise the french team could never win against the dutch! i regret that mr garot is already working towards the following reform in this resolution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the agricultural products. i welcome the rural policy, but it is not a substitute for the european agricultural policy. garot is exploiting the multifunctionality of european agriculture as an excuse for a new form of structural policy. a policy that should pump money into an area based on area size rather than production value. if we want to preserve the family business and reject unbridled expansion, we must adapt our policies accordingly. this means that high farm subsidies must be capped and that small and mediumsized enterprises must be systematically protected. that is what the european farmer gets out of it at the end of the day!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the countries concerned would automatically experience economic prosperity if such companies were given the freedom to take over loss-making activities and export raw materials. it's a short-term assumption. the economies of the countries concerned have been controlled by the northern countries for centuries and have been forced to produce cheap goods for the markets of the rich countries. the internal economy and services to the countries' own population have had to be neglected. services in areas such as education, health care, public transport, housing, postal services, electricity, drinking water, telephone and sewage have largely had to be developed and expanded by the colonial government itself. due to high development costs and the prospect of limited profits, these sectors were initially largely uninteresting to foreign private companies. we have also seen how, in the 19th and 20th centuries, the first stage of japanese industrial development was only possible thanks to public enterprises which were privatized only when they were profitable. it was therefore also positive that the committee on development and cooperation was not only concerned with privatisation and full liberalisation but also with services, the fight against poverty, small businesses, cooperatives and sustainable government initiatives. unfortunately, the christian democrats are blocking today in the plenary the way to a majority for these instruments to combat poverty and underdevelopment.
mr president, better a lie than a half-truth, so i would paraphrase a well-known expression. i've been experiencing the validity of that spell for the last few days. one of my colleagues whispered to the press that the dutch members of the christian-democratic group and my group never pay back any of their travel expenses. radio, tv and newspapers picked up this message without any proper investigation. since then, my colleagues and i have been inundated with calls and e-mails asking why i withhold money. that is weird. i'm not returning any money because i don't report trips i didn't make. i am aware that many fishermen are in a similar situation. they must not defend themselves against a lie but against a half-truth. the situation on the northern slope is not rosy, but it is not so bad that a recovery plan is necessary. the european commission, based on unspecified data, is proposing a drastic reduction in the amount of fish to be caught. recent data from biologists indicate that the hedgehog is not in such bad shape that drastic intervention is needed. i therefore wholeheartedly support mr souchet's report and call on the commission to adjust its plans. a management plan for the northern hake with adequate control and enforcement is sufficient to provide this species with a future perspective. the lack of scientific research is already hurting fishermen too much. it is time for sound scientific research that helps both fish and fishermen.
president. - i thank mr prodi for presenting the proposal on the financial perspective at this early stage. it gives us as a parliament and national governments ample opportunity to put our priorities in order for the next few years. the budget is nothing more and nothing less than the financial translation of the policy we want. i would like to congratulate the commission on this. it is trying to show, honestly and courageously, the price tag of the substantive plans that the european heads of government and the commission itself have drawn up in recent years. i think that the european commission is much more fair in this respect than the six net payers who last december put forward the demand that they should not have to pay a penny more than they do now. i share the criticism of my colleagues in that respect. one per cent and not a penny more, regardless of enlargement, regardless of the need to make europe play a stronger role in the world, regardless of plans for european border control and regardless of the promise to make europe the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. such plans are always announced with great fanfare, but in the end the member states do not accept the consequences. more tasks for the european union, certainly a larger european union, will also require more money. put your money where your plans are, i'd say. but of course, current expenditure can also be taken into account. there is a real possibility of cutting back on this and we can discuss this with my group. the problem is that the same six countries that are fixating on that one per cent are also refusing to talk about further reforms on the biggest cost item of the european budget, namely agricultural policy. a policy which still rewards farmers intensively and is bad for animals and the environment. the net contributors do not want to talk about this for reasons that are incomprehensible to me. it is time we started talking not just about the amount or what mr prodi said about the roof of the house, but also about a really sensible use of the taxpayers' money. i have serious doubts about the european commission's proposal. she wants to spend a lot of money on sustainable development, and that is good, that touches my green heart. but what is so lasting about the proposals you have put forward? the european commission has drawn up a whole strategy to encourage research, but why has the same not been done for the environment? why are all plans to make agriculture greener by encouraging rural development at the expense of intensive agricultural production being abandoned? why is there no more money for rural development? the european union also has great ambitions in foreign policy. the european union must play a leading role in the world. that is what my group welcomes. this role also requires an idea of how to finance, for example, future international crises, and that is lacking now. mr wynn mentioned that point too but if there is no flexibility in the european budget then the bill always risks being at the expense of other policies. for example, the bill will eventually have to be paid by our new neighbours, when we want to strengthen those ties. more flexibility also in foreign policy, that is really something that has yet to be built into the european commission's plans.
mr president, if you want the bottom of the barrel, you get the member on the nose, as the dutch say. the commissioner, mr schreyer, wants to see the ceiling on eu spending raised to 1.24% of gross national product. this proposal is already unrealistic, with six net contributors wanting to limit the eu budget to 1%. the last decades have shown that regional policy grants have had little effect, except in ireland. it is therefore surprising that the commission is proposing to increase this item by 23%. has the commissioner never heard of subsidy addiction? we propose an automatic cap on the net receipts of member states with a level of prosperity above 90 per cent of the european average. they should receive no more than 1% of the gross national product net annually. this will give breathing space to the much poorer regions in the accession countries. perhaps structural policy is even more effective there. the fifty-fifty division between old and new member states, as proposed by commissioner barnier, is a slap in the face. given the tight space on national budgets, it is not politically realistic to spend money on the setting up of a european institution which will be at best a duplicate of nato. mr president, we are in favour of one proposal. it is a matter of establishing a general correction mechanism for member states which make exceptional contributions to the financing of the european union. we are also asking the commissioner to provide multiannual budgets which are not just the same, but which offer real priorities and real, feasible choices.
- mr president, the commission's scoreboard for the first and second half of 2003 shows that progress has been made, and the thessaloniki european council in june 2003 gave fresh impetus to progress in this policy area. my compliments to both of you. the council is being singled out as the main culprit in relation to the persistence of a number of asylum and immigration files. the european commission has called on member states to release their reserves before the five-year period provided for in the amsterdam treaty expires. the commission has already adopted these measures. - that's right. - what? on the other hand, a period of five years for measures in this field was also very short. broadly supported legislation that is developed over a longer period of time is more meaningful than rapid measures that are then not introduced because of political reluctance. the european arrest warrant is a good example. i was surprised by the commission's proposals on allowing migration to the european union. this was certainly not one of the obligations of the treaty of amsterdam. it is a subject which still requires a thorough discussion. it is partly because of these kinds of dangers that i am not in favour of the full implementation of qualified majority voting in the council on european action in the field of justice and home affairs. it's got to be looked at piece by piece. finally, i saw that the commission intends to increase the budget for justice and home affairs considerably to take measures in the field of illegal immigration and organised crime. can commissioner vitorino give us some details?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are pleased that in recent months it has been decided to have a separate resolution on this subject for the next plenary session. we believe it is important that the european union, as in the past, plays an important role and takes the lead in the debate on weapons of mass destruction and in particular on the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the risks we are facing in recent times. the subject is very topical with all that is happening around iraq, iran, north korea and in recent weeks around pakistan with the so-called khan affair. as i said, the operation of the non-proliferation treaty will also be discussed at the end of april. the social democrats have the following principles in mind in this debate: we are in favour of a multilateral approach, because there are no unilateral solutions to the problems we face. all the objectives of the non-proliferation treaty remain valid, including those of general disarmament. the recognized nuclear powers, as we call them, must set the example and we also continue to attach importance to a total ban on nuclear tests. we also call on those who are thinking of developing new nuclear weapons, the so-called smart nuclear weapons, not to continue with this development. it is right to call attention to what we call the welfare states and i would like to emphasize that we very much support the approach which the european union has recently taken on the issue of iran, namely to bring the country under economic, political and diplomatic pressure to comply with the agreements and controls of the atomic energy agency. at the same time, and we would like to hear the council and commission's reaction to this, the review and evaluation of the non-proliferation treaty should consider ways of improving the inspection and sanctions regime. that is the way we must be able to improve the situation in the world. attention should also be paid to the possible malign role of unrecognised but untouched nuclear weapons states in the proliferation of knowledge and material. i was just saying something about the khan affair. i would also like to hear your reaction to this. what have eu countries done so far to prevent this kind of practice? the risks seem to be increasing, even in the former soviet union. the initiatives taken are only half-hearted, and i would like to hear the council and commission's reaction to them. are we just waiting for something to go wrong or are we actually trying to prevent it? finally, one more question. of course, there have been interesting developments in the middle east, recently also through the opening up to libya. we can actually see that iran is now more or less complying with the npt agreements. libya is giving up its nuclear weapons program. iraq turned out not to have them. is it not time to see if we can start a discussion on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east?
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) a good argument for maintaining european agricultural subsidies is that small farmers are enabled to survive the fall in the price of their products and that they contribute to maintaining the quality of life in rural areas. this argument falls apart if tax money is misused to line the pockets of rich farmers and agricultural multinationals. a recent study by the development organisation oxfam shows that eu agricultural subsidies in the uk benefit landowners in particular. thus the richest of them, the duke of westminster, is estimated to receive about £38 an hour in farm subsidies. the rapporteur, mr garot, who, unfortunately, as a social democrat, nevertheless regards the liberalization of agriculture as a natural phenomenon, now also notes that there is something wrong with agricultural subsidies. between 1995 and 2002, agricultural income increased by 7%, but the number of farms decreased by 15.7%. the remaining conquests became larger and more intense. agricultural aid is unevenly distributed. 20% of farms receive 73% of the direct aid for 59% of the area and only 25% of the jobs. the rapporteur is particularly concerned about farms which produce little but which are still receiving aid. i am thinking more of a ceiling, a maximum limit for the aid per holding. without such a measure, the agricultural funds become a source of useless bureaucracy and unfair redistributions.
in writing. - (nl) the i have neither voted for nor against mr garot's report, despite the fact that it supports the development and reform of an agricultural policy with separate premiums and a strengthened policy for rural areas. the report does not, however, take sufficient account of the limitations on the financing of the common agricultural policy. the financial room for manoeuvre also influences the policy pursued. i would refer in particular to paragraph 25, which rejects cofinancing as an instrument for financing agricultural policy and rural development policy. in my view, compulsory cofinancing is one of the important instruments for the future implementation of the common agricultural policy.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens, which is the subject of a proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, is not acceptable. the compromise incorporates a points system based on duration, with quality points being awarded for each course. this system ensures that not only the duration but also the quality of the training is important for the evaluation of the training. the compromise also strengthens the rights and obligations of the professions, which are subject to an additional duty to protect consumers, by means of compulsory registration and insurance when services are temporarily provided in another member state. the same right of access to the labour market remains for women. a discriminatory provision which allowed the retention of a qualification only if one had worked continuously for two years in the preceding five years has been abolished. the directive is vital to increase labour market mobility, which is an essential prerequisite for achieving the lisbon objectives. a transparent qualification system will become more important, especially in the light of enlargement, which will lead to a further increase in cross-border immigration.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) young people are told that it is becoming easier for them to work abroad. some enjoy working abroad for a while to gain experience. it is different if it becomes a duty, because your profession is dying out in your own country and you can only get such a job far away. and people are disappointed if they have to work abroad for a lower salary and without recognition of the diplomas they have obtained. the eu's propaganda includes the idea that everyone can work in any member state for the normal wage that is common there and that diplomas are mutually recognized. however, the practice is very different from this ideal. foreign teachers are not eligible for equal work in france and italy. according to petitions recently received, greece does not recognise diplomas obtained by greeks at universities abroad, and there are also problems in baden-württemberg and scotland. i do not have the impression that the proposed amendment to 15 directives really solves these problems. the most important of these is greater freedom of establishment for the liberal professions, which means that foreigners no longer have to comply with the licensing and registration requirements which are still compulsory for their colleagues from the host country. in the opinion of the specialists, the commission has not done a very good job of comparing their diplomas. the complaints will continue.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. these are all minimum provisions which could be tightened up. in particular, it is necessary to prevent the governments of the member states of the european union from starting to regard this european minimum as normal and to reduce their national legislation to this level, as the dutch minister de geus seems to want. in practice, the directive is being eroded by a concession made to the then british conservative government. the opt-in clause means that individual british workers who have to sign their employment contract are asked to give up their rights. those who do not often have to leave the job to someone else who is willing to do so. an additional problem is that the hours of call for firefighters and health workers are often not counted as working time. now that this has to be done according to the court's judgment, the opt-out option is being applied to these people. this makes it possible for people to work extremely long hours for extended periods of time. the committee on employment and social affairs voted by a small majority to open infringement proceedings against the uk government and to abolish the individual opt-out. this proposal is being torpedoed today by a conservative majority.
madam president, mr. chairman of the council, fear is a bad advisor. i can imagine that israel wants to protect itself, but it does not do so with this wall. a un report last september condemned the wall as illegal and called it an illegal annexation. you, as president of the council and as council, believe that the hearings and the decisions of the international court of justice will disrupt the peace process. i do not share that view, mr president. i share mr cohn-bendit's view that it would be good to examine the extent to which international law is being violated here. i think we should not make an exception for israel. i also believe that we should not make an exception for palestine in this context if it makes mistakes. we are talking about the 21,000 or so people who live in the area between the wall and israel and who are cut off from social services, schools and jobs. this will lead to new hatred and a new generation of refugees. how do you explain - i am a member of the palestinian delegation - to a group of people in qalqilyah, once known as the west bank's fruit basket, which is located by a small opening in the wall, that there the whole thing is closed on three sides? the closing of two major water sources and all farms that should supply the area? access to the city of 40,000 people is through a single israeli checkpoint. i don't mind a case like that going to trial. i share the view of all those who have said that the israeli-palestinian conflict must be resolved, but to tolerate a wall and wait for the conflict to be resolved is the wrong way to go.
- madam president, i would like to make one point in this debate: without palestinian terror, there would be no israeli security barrier in the making. the german foreign minister is proud to have recently endorsed this ultimate measure. of course, there is disagreement about the exact route of this separation, even within israel itself. hence the present hearings before the israeli supreme court. i would also like to make it clear that the general interests of the palestinian population in the west bank must not be unduly harmed by the controversial security barrier. but it is not in the interests of the un general assembly to invoke the intervention of the international court of justice on such a primary political issue as the line of demarcation between israelis and palestinians. this only undermines the urgent need to resume political dialogue between the parties concerned. in short, i share the negative view of my country, the netherlands, and of the european union! speaking of the tense proceedings before the international court of justice, the special observer status of palestine - read 'the palestinian authority' - is most remarkable, clearly lagging behind the jewish state. this skewed ratio is politically counterproductive. this is also a bad thing for the european parliament, since next week the palestinian prime minister will be allowed to make his appearance in the committee on foreign affairs, but not the israeli prime minister. let us also, in the israeli-palestinian conflict, apply the tried and tested adage of hearsay to the full.
- the president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the general interest of the current european maritime safety policy will be greatly served if we ensure that emsa gets off to a fast start. i am glad that mr mastorakis has done so much to ensure that we could work efficiently in a short time. i am not saddened by the restrictions on security, although some might wish to entrust them. i think we've got a pretty good idea of what's going on. the aim of placing physical security measures under the agency's remit could only make it controversial and could thus have hindered its rapid establishment. the added value, therefore, to me lies in better coordination of the knowledge and resources already available in the various member states. it is important that we can say 'yes' tomorrow, especially because we can then legally enshrine this at the beginning of march, so that emsa can still make proposals for the 2005 budget, which should be done before 1 april. this creates scope for the agency's removal powers to be put into practice. the necessary investment in new material will be made possible. i am very pleased that the agency is also empowered to assess training programmes from third countries. after all, the greatest danger at sea is human failure. so that reduces the ignorance. it is a pity that the powers of inquiry in shipwrecks have been a little meagre. the only thing that is being discussed here is the exchange of methodology and data. that's a little too low for me. i would also like to ask the commissioner: if agreements are to be concluded with third countries, is it not wise to ensure that russia is one of the first countries to do so, so that we can make europe's coastlines safer?
- mr president, this parliament has always been strongly in favour of the promotion of a sustainable freight transport system. each modality has a role to play. in theory, these roles are clearly identifiable. the practice is more resilient. we can see that some modalities are not really coming out of the blue. one problem is the wide variation in charging units, which have often arisen in everyday practice. some are widely used, others less so. it all depends on the market situation. the latter is a dominant factor in freight transport. changes are only meaningful when they are supported and stimulated by the market. this will only happen if there are real benefits to be gained. the commission proposal still has a few gaps in this respect. the introduction of a new charging unit is a good idea, provided that it can actually be used in all modes without any modifications. it must be applied in practice. all the commotion and commentary surrounding this proposal suggests otherwise. we therefore welcome the fact that the present report makes the proposal more market-oriented. the eilu is no longer the ultimate solution to all existing problems, but an option for future use, embedded in current operational activities. the vote tomorrow will be taken on a point of order. amendment no 16 is not acceptable. if the measures mentioned in this amendment are adopted, this would in fact mean that the concept is eliminated. in order to preserve the positive aspects of the eilu - more pallets in one unit - it seems to me that it would be useful to leave the actual dimensions to the market so that the companies that do want to use the unit also have the space to do so technically. mr president, all in all, mr stockmann has done a good job.
- mr president, madam vice-president, an integrated approach to transport in which all available modes of transport are used adequately is a good thing. to meet the challenges of increasing road transport, the european union must be proactive in promoting intermodality. proactive means, first and foremost, that the government responds to the demands of the market, not that the government burdens the market with difficult regulations and additional costs. the commission has not yet adopted the proposal, and i therefore had my initial reservations about certain aspects of the commission's proposal and also about the rapporteur's proposal. but now that the proposals have been amended in the committee on transport, i have no more worries. market participants should be free to choose the loading units that best suit each type of goods and mode of transport. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i do not think it is necessary to support the introduction of the european intermodal charging unit by means of tax advantages or subsidies on purchases. the commission itself has stated in its proposal that it does not want to impose the use of the technology but to leave it to the market to decide on its use. the introduction of subsidies and tax breaks is contrary to that idea. technical specifications describing the characteristics of intermodal charging units should be critically considered. it is important that the essential requirements set do not conflict with the international iso standards. this is because of the considerable use of units produced in accordance with international standards and also used outside the union. i am glad that my concern has been taken up by the rapporteur and that it is reflected in the text by means of an amendment. this also applies to the adaptation of the approval period of the european intermodal loading units by equating them with that of the iso container, which is widely used internationally. however, the introduction of new intermodal charging units does not yet ensure intermodality. in addition to the current diversity, the poor quality of rail services offered is a major obstacle to the growth of intermodal transport. inland navigation should also be more involved in the discussion. as i have said, the improvement of transport requires a good quality of legislation, legislation which takes account of the possibilities of the market and which can be introduced in an adequate and harmonised manner in good time by the right timing. i therefore believe that the introduction of the digital tachograph should be postponed for one year in order to ensure that the legislation meets the requirements mentioned above. but this urgent matter could not be discussed with the commission this week because of lack of time. it will be helpful in this parliament if something can really be done.
- mr president, madam commissioner, in mid-2001 we discussed the esclopé report on the desirability of raising the ceiling for compensation for oil disasters at sea. the council's common position has taken too long to arrive. however, the international maritime organisation has decided to raise the limit of the existing funds to 750,000 special drawing rights, bringing the limit to almost eur 1 billion. the point made by parliament in the esclopé report was thus addressed. we therefore congratulate the member states participating in the imo on this decision. it is a realistic approach and guarantees adequate financial compensation in the event of oil pollution. this does not change the fact that prevention is better than cure. i hope that this extension of the liability regime will encourage that too. i therefore wholeheartedly support the report by our former president.
i can be brief about the excellent report by mr brie. i think that is a good description of the new constitution. it illustrates why there are good reasons for postponing the elections, perhaps for a few months, and it emphasizes once again the need for further improvement in the position of women. the tragedy is that with this report in hand and with the good intentions of the commission, we have unfortunately ended up in a situation where we as a parliament, but also as a commission, are full of good intentions, we have great plans, but we have no influence on the conditions under which those plans have to be implemented, namely a lack of security. there are increasing reports from ngos indicating that last year, for example, 12 aid workers were killed. a growing number of reports by ngos show that they are unable to implement a very large number of good projects. the commissioner also referred to plans worth 30 million euros which unfortunately cannot be implemented because of the lack of security. ladies and gentlemen, this week we have again seen the newspapers full of wonderful plans for rapid intervention forces. fine, if it's about preventing bloodshed in africa but that shouldn't come at the expense of the - i would say - less sexy projects like the difficult reconstruction work in afghanistan. because now the member states of the european union are full of promises, of wonderful things that should happen, but soldiers are not going, soldiers are going far too little and that is the big problem. although i believe that there are hardly any christian-democratic colleagues left now, i would like to address them on a mistake which i believe they made in december. they have convinced parliament that we should cut, cut - you heard right - aid to afghanistan because the drug trade is not being tackled. the fact that the drug trade is not being tackled is a direct consequence of the fact that european member states are not sending troops to afghanistan and that the troops there are partly because of this need for the warlords to maintain order and therefore do not want to tackle the opium trade. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we cannot allow ourselves to be unable to fulfil our promises once again, to allow afghanistan to sink into an opium economy run by warlords, and - what i am most concerned about - to allow the hopes of many afghans, and especially afghan women, to be dashed once again. that can't happen!
madam president, commissioner, very recently the middle east intelligence bulletin published a stirring analysis of the afghan political situation under the title: afghanistan: the gulf between report and reality. the author, a veteran afghan travel journalist, turns the conventional western image of kabul and its surroundings on its head. i should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, that i have given this report a lot of thought. i would therefore like to briefly present the article and ask a question about our strategy in afghanistan. i hope that the commissioner will have time to look over the article and that he will have time to look over it. based on his own observations, john jennings, this journalist, debunks the horror of the afghan countryside as an oriental "wild west". with a few local exceptions, he observes a safe and peaceful society. in short, no provincial warlords who continually make life unbearable for each other and the population. on the contrary, there are encouraging signs of reconstruction and the return of hundreds of thousands of afghan refugees from neighbouring pakistan and iran. the vast majority of ordinary afghans living in areas where no taliban remnants are active are better off today than at any time since 1978, jennings said. interim president karzai should have a stake in this. the opposite seems to be true according to the scenario outlined. because with the help of isaf and nato, the technocrats in kabul are seeking to militarily and politically eliminate the anti-taliban forces in the provinces. it is precisely this pashtun agenda that raises the great danger of a general uprising against an externally imposed regime. it's an afghan tradition. the future of afghanistan as a nation state, in jennings' view, is much more likely to be built on a careful gradual bottom-up approach, on political consensus between the de facto regional authorities, which ultimately also tolerate a weak central authority. disrupting this fragile process would give the taliban forces a second chance and also their anti-western pakistani patrons. a total defeat for the west in the fight against islamist terrorism. madam president, paragraphs 12 and 13 of his report show that mr brie recognizes the acute problem, this field of tension. unfortunately, he does not go into this fundamental problem for afghanistan's political future. it's between us. we'll have to deal with that. how do the council and the commission see this? i would like to bring this article to the attention of commissioner patten, who is hoping to travel to kabul in the near future. i'll give it to you later. it 's not a small matter . the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process.
the situation of democracy and human rights in the mediterranean countries is still very sad. the main reason is that those in power never give up their power and are not even willing to share it. autocratic regimes can only survive by repressing and restricting freedom. the greatest victims are the people who are badly governed and economically and socially backward. this is the breeding ground for radicalism by dissatisfied people, which is not only the problem of the region but also of the rest of the world. the european union must therefore do everything in its power to remedy the situation. the partnerships provide a good framework for this, but have so far been used inadequately and far too loosely. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission's communication on the ten priorities is really excellent. many of the measures proposed are in line with the concrete suggestions i made in my report on human rights last year. the intentions and approach are good but the result is of course far from guaranteed. we want to see the regimes finally change their behaviour in ways that they would not have done on their own. the new measures should not lead to bureaucratization but to concrete objectives which are systematically examined. positive impulses are very important. can the commissioner indicate how the partners have reacted so far, apart from morocco and jordan which he has already mentioned? can the commissioner also explain how the european union's approach relates to us policy towards the region? to what extent is there transatlantic coordination? the proposed policy impulse is not a day too soon. any further deterioration of the region could have enormous consequences. many regimes say that security is more important than democracy. a false contrast is hardly conceivable. it is precisely the lack of democracy that makes the situation hopeless and dangerous. the pursuit of security and prosperity must first and foremost guarantee democracy and human rights. i would like the commissioner to answer my questions.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) at the end of yesterday's debate, commissioner bolkestein failed to address two key issues. it is about the legal tax havens and it is about the consequences of fraud for workers and small savers. it is welcome that the commissioner will introduce strict disclosure requirements by september, which will ensure that special operations and transactions are shown in the accounts and that an explanation is attached to the use of special instruments. it should have happened a long time ago. accounts which do not conceal the real course and the reasons for this are sorely needed. what concerns me most at the moment is that there are european states which allow companies to circumvent rules laid down by other states. i have always thought that problems of bank secrecy, fictitious 'mailbox companies' and tax havens were confined to luxembourg, austria and the swiss cantons of zug and schwyz. however, it appears that parmalat had placed several billion of its assets in the netherlands through 181 trust offices, five limited liability companies and a foundation. the favourable investment climate for foreign companies created by the dutch government in the 1990s opens up opportunities for fraudsters and tax evaders. i have not yet heard what the dutch commissioner is doing to counter this policy, which is being promoted by his own party among others. i shall therefore take up the matter in the near future and put questions to the commission on the subject.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. afghanistan is seen as a collection of isolated valleys between mountain ranges, with different languages and cultures, which have little in common except religion, islam, women's oppression, and that in the 19th century they were combined to form a buffer zone between the areas under british and russian influence respectively. while tajik, uzbek and baluch people also live in neighbouring countries, the question of banning their languages within the borders of afghanistan is being discussed in the context of the drafting of the afghan constitution. the outside world imposes an all-powerful president and a unified army to bring about unity, but in reality neither the president nor the army has any power outside the capital. such illusions of unity force the outside world into a permanent military presence in a conflict between peoples who do not want such unity at all. the first prospect of lasting peace is a swiss-style state based on largely autonomous cantons with different languages. the text before us shows that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy is beginning to understand this and is calling for decentralization, a strengthening of parliament and independent courts. i'm very pleased. i can support the proposal, with the exception of the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group which go against what has just been said.
the ayatollahs in the guardian council are doing everything they can to hold on to their religious, political and economic power. their exclusive authority to interpret the koran is constantly being misused for political purposes. they're stopping anything that they don't like or that could compromise their own power. they have now vetoed more than a third of the laws passed by parliament. now, in fact, over 2,500 reformist candidates are being excluded from the elections, including some 80 sitting members of parliament. while large sections of society, especially the young, are seeking modernization and freedom, the hard core of the ruling class clings to medieval views and repressive activities. the young generation is by far the majority in iran. moreover, many former revolutionaries have themselves become disillusioned with the clergy's abuse of power. president khatami himself calls the exclusion of candidates a threat to the nation and the system. the struggle between reformers and conservative clergymen is becoming more acute. if nothing changes, it seems only a matter of time before it erupts with all its consequences. the situation of human rights and democracy in iran remains highly questionable. the european union cannot enter into a partnership unless there are substantial improvements. it is very doubtful whether it is still worthwhile to continue negotiations. what is commissioner patten's opinion on this? he also said that the eu should be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world. the human rights dialogue with iran is also not very good, as i know from personal experience. it will not get any better if the parliamentary elections turn out to be a farce. the european union should not lend itself to a dialogue which is used as an alibi for not carrying out reforms. iran is a potentially rich country with an ancient civilization. it can play a very important constructive role in the region but as long as the ayatollahs continue to abuse their unlimited power it will not become a new civilization but is doomed to remain an international pariah.
president. - europe and america have long sought to exert a major influence on developments in iran, iraq and afghanistan. often, that influence leads to results that are quite different from what was previously expected. the muslim fundamentalists in afghanistan and the regime of saddam hussein in iraq could not survive until recently because they were supported by the west against others. in iran too, there has been a long-standing attempt to keep controversial friends in the saddle. half a century ago, mossadegh's regime was purged because it was too left-wing and might cooperate with its then russian northern neighbours. an authoritarian ruler, the shah, returned to power but then, through his vanity of grandeur and neglect of his people, made more and more enemies at home. when left-wing nationalism and socialism no longer had a chance to become the alternative, a medieval variant of islam was given new opportunities to organize popular resistance. a quarter of a century ago, a popular uprising brought to an end a regime that had always sought military and economic cooperation with the west. the outside world has never trusted the new rulers. after a few years of great enthusiasm, social policies and democratic experiments, this regime has also created hatred within itself. the large young generation does not want the exclusion of politicians with views different from those of the conservative clergy, nor restrictive rules for women, the expulsion of students, the frequent amputation, hanging or stoning of people who do not fit the world view of those in power. many have fled the country of their birth, often to europe. nevertheless, in recent years europe has sought to align itself with this regime on the basis of economic interests. america hesitated but seemed to do the same after the bam earthquake and the willingness to have nuclear projects inspected. some of the opposition who stand up for the rights and freedoms we take for granted in europe were put on a list of terrorist organisations in 2002. this has given the real powers more confidence in stopping previous attempts at democratization and normalisation. by excluding the most critical candidates, the political composition of the parliament is reversed in advance, so that the large majority becomes a small minority. my group hopes that europe will learn from this and from now on take the side of the iranian people and their resistance organizations.
mr president, a clear voice from tehran is always welcome and president khatami made sure of that yesterday, personally. in a speech on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the islamic revolution in iran, the head of state strongly criticised the exclusion of a large number of reformist families from the forthcoming parliamentary elections on 20 february. khatami said that elections and colleague van den bos said that are a symbol of democracy. he then warned that "when this right is restricted it is a threat to the nation and the system". his message to the conservative forces in the islamic republic is not misunderstood. their repressive actions destabilize the state and society. the public's bitterness is already great and will only increase. what lesson should the european parliament draw from this unfair vote for the iranian parliament, the majlis? if the new majlis turns out to be overwhelmingly made up of ultraconservatives, say radical islamists, we should not put a price on close relations. a german expert on iran, also a voter, added to me an hour ago. i'll give him that much credit.
president, in five years, ten months and four days, 2010 will begin, the year in which, according to the lisbon agreements, the european union must be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. that is not enough time for an ambitious target which has been the subject of much discussion up to now. and when i read the reports by my colleagues on the state of the current economy, there is reason to be somewhat wary of that short period. in this combined reading we are discussing two reports on economic policy and public finances in emu and a resolution for the forthcoming spring european council. in the two reports we focus on what has happened so far and what is not going well. in the resolution for the forthcoming spring summit we shall express our expectations and wishes. right now, those expectations are mostly paper deals. economic growth is moderate, member states are facing budgetary problems and the united states economy is now growing faster than that of the european union. so we are far from being the most competitive region in the world. the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp and the eldr has my support in part. the objectives of the lisbon process are too ambitious and not sufficiently clearly defined. that's why it's so important to update now. firstly, the lisbon objectives should be reconsidered and better defined. then we might get some attainable goals. and you will understand that this parliament too can make its views on the progress of this process even clearer if it sets achievable objectives. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the results of the consultations. it is not just talking about how things can be improved, but also doing something about what is being said here today.
president, ladies and gentlemen, president of the council and commissioners, when the spring summit takes place next month, it will be exactly four years since our european economic ambitions were set and welcomed in lisbon. unfortunately, in the past four years, the necessary progress has not been made to achieve these ambitions. the problem is obvious: the member states are not doing enough to make the european economy competitive and dynamic. in the run-up to the spring summit, mr chirac, mr schröder and mr blair have joined forces, ostensibly to revive the european project. such a disagreement rarely leads to positive consequences for our european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our european economy is currently stagnating because of the poorly functioning labour markets in germany and france. and were it not france and germany who burdened us with agreements on the agricultural budget, which now means that we are facing a huge increase in the european budget after enlargement? and who's gonna pay for that? britain certainly does not. they're clinging to their rebate. the liberal group believes that the strongest shoulders should bear the heaviest burdens, but all strong shoulders should. ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we call on the member states to work towards the lisbon objectives and to keep their economies healthy. but we in the european parliament must not burden industry with unnecessarily heavy administrative and financial burdens, such as the proposed reach chemicals policy. but it is only the member states that can ensure that europe remains globally competitive. it is important that the stability pact be maintained and that everyone keep their budget in order. only this can result in the prosperity and job growth so badly needed by our citizens.
i would like to begin by thanking mr roche very much for his speech from the council, and particularly for what he said about the elderly. if we could create a better labour market for older people, then i think we could achieve the lisbon objectives in the field of employment. i was therefore very disappointed that the commission is only talking about abolishing the financial instruments for the elderly. we might as well take away the old people's right to vote. what the commission is saying is totally unacceptable. the creation of a labour market must provide opportunities to reduce the need for such schemes. secondly, mr president, the legislation itself. the commission has rightly pointed out that the legislation for the internal market must be introduced quickly. but there are also proposals from the european commission which are questionable as to whether they will make a significant contribution to employment. i'm afraid sometimes the opposite is true. and yet i am afraid that in the field of financial services, as in the takeover directive, people are following what they think is happening in the united states. i think you should look very carefully at the employment implications of this. and then, of course, the environment. it is true that the evaluation of existing and the creation of new environmental legislation must also take much more account of the employment effects than has been the case so far. it is too easy to minimize that, as mr langen does. the last point is productivity. i think the question of productivity is still very much underestimated. productivity is what brings everything together. if we improve productivity, we can do more, we can get better jobs. but it is often the other side of this house that stands in the way of improving productivity, because too much is being done to cling to old ideas that have little resonance in this day and age.
the european commission should draw up a roadmap for the member states, showing who is going to achieve what, when and how. the european council in berlin has once again shown that there is agreement on the objectives, but not on the measures. so we're not getting anywhere with that. a roadmap with precise targets to replace the current vague agreements should help government leaders to set out on the path to boosting the knowledge economy and making the european labour market more flexible. the european commission must also state at the spring break how far it has come in the abolition of unnecessary legislation. the commission has promised to cut 25 per cent for european industry. the reduction in administrative burdens will enable businesses to re-enter the market and thus generate economic growth. a european supercommissioner for economic affairs is not the answer. chancellor schröder could have known this, because the german super-minister for economic affairs and labour, wolfgang clement, has not been able to prevent the german economy from continuing to have one of the lowest growth rates in europe.
mr president, this budget for the first calendar year of the european union of 25 will be a real test of strength. the administrative reform of the european commission has only recently been well under way. the commission will have to make every effort to ensure sound financial management, a well-functioning information system and fully reliable accounts. the rapporteur, mr kuckelkorn, rightly points to the possibility of saving costs through cooperation between the institutions. a considerable saving can be made if this parliament is no longer obliged to meet in strasbourg. but without the cooperation of france, this is not legally possible. i therefore propose that the bureau, or the council, or the french republic, submit the bill for the double location of over 200 million euros per year. our group stresses the great importance of multilingualism in this house. parliament should not reinforce its image as an elite club in the eyes of the public, but rather destroy it. every citizen should be able to follow all public meetings in his own language. democracy in diversity is a key task of this parliament.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr graça moura on his initiative to highlight the role of education in the involvement and dissemination of culture. and since we all know compulsory education in europe, it is a good instrument for bringing culture, including the common european culture, to the citizens of the future. education can play an important role in this, making parents, and thus children, aware of what culture has to offer. europe is not only an economic project but above all a cultural project: culture, cultural diversity, that's what connects us. i think it is also in the interest of enlargement to highlight different aspects of culture. the accession countries have a different view of our history. there is still a long way to go before we can recognize and acknowledge that commonality with each other. i would point out that education is of course a national matter. we can make recommendations and provide information about european culture here in europe, but it is not the union's responsibility to force member states to include this information in their school curricula, as some of us are proposing. my group will certainly distance itself from that. i do agree with mr graça moura that the emphasis in education should not be on academic subjects alone but should also include creative subjects. i would like to make a start on music education, including classical music and opera. both have a long tradition in europe but are hardly considered in schools. access to culture is also important. children who grow up in homes where little is done for culture have a hard time. ideally, parents should take the role of guiding, but schools can also play an important role. i would therefore like to point out that the school must involve the parents. in this way, the teaching of creative subjects can be given extra support and there is simply a much greater interest in culture.
the commission proposal is a good one. pops are hazardous to humans and the environment and should be handled with care. as regards the legal basis, i agree with the rapporteur that we should choose article 175 as the sole basis. in the past, we have done this in similar treaties such as those of rotterdam and basle. so we have to be consistent about this. the opinion of the legal affairs committee also supports the choice of article 175. i am also curious to see whether the european commission will take the matter to the court of justice again, as it did, to everyone's surprise, with the rotterdam convention. can commissioner monti clarify this point? in addition, the concentration standards in annex iv should be established as soon as possible. an empty annex is not going to help us. i therefore ask the european commission to act quickly on this matter as well. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i think it is a very good one. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0403 - c4-0206/97). it was a difficult case which she brought to a successful conclusion in close cooperation with the shadow reporters.
the intention of this draft recommendation from the european parliament to the council on relations between the european union and russia is clear. a partnership that deserves the name. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals. however, in fairness, the eu/russian federation relationship is far from optimal. both partners are to blame. that is the point of this draft recommendation: european self-criticism and criticism of moscow. in the autumn of last year the foreign affairs committee of this house took that course. we are pleased to note that the european commission - see its communication of 10 february - is broadly in agreement. the same is said to be true of the council. in parentheses: the council should be more transparent with this house on such an important and wide-ranging policy area as relations with russia. the present european unity with regard to russia is moving, but what is important is its practical implementation, and this is where the self-criticism on the european side comes in. different views have been expressed on kaliningrad, chechnya and the yukos case. i am therefore very much looking forward, mr president-in-office, to new agreements for a new consistent policy. yesterday the press confronted me again with confusing noises from a prominent european statesman. a second important point of self-criticism is raised in recital s and paragraph 2 of the draft recommendation. the eu-russia partnership is based on the common values of respect for democratic principles and human rights. the european parliament expressly recommends that the council and the european commission apply this principle consistently in all areas of cooperation with the kremlin. the situation in chechnya is in any case completely at odds with the foundations of the eu-russia partnership, a downright oppressive situation of unbridled violence and lawlessness, with the main victims being the defenceless civilian population. at the same time, the chechen tragedy is a problem shunned in international politics, as the title of a recent in-depth study aptly indicates. in paragraph 13 this house urges the council in all seriousness to oppose forcefully this shameful analysis. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. first of all, the council should make a strong protest to president putin about the disappearances, torture or worse, the killing of chechen citizens who had the courage to lodge a complaint with the european court of human rights. speaking of disappearances in the chechen region, i would point to the continuing uncertainty about the fate of my compatriot arjan erkel. i fully endorse the amendment tabled, amendment no 25, which reiterates its grave concern at the fact that no political solution has yet been found in the arjan erkel case and regrets the fact that no progress has been made towards a solution, and therefore calls for a determined political commitment on the part of the federal and local authorities in russia, the commission and the council to ensure that mr erkel is safely and effectively released. end of quote. far more than chechnya, another disruption in the eu/russia partnership is in the political and public interest today: the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreements with all the new member states of the union as from 1 may 2004. parliament fully supported the council's position not to open negotiations with the russians on this issue. could the council inform us whether or not a temporary solution to this dispute is in sight? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. unsigned and unratified border agreements between russia and its baltic neighbours estonia and latvia, on the other hand, are rather destabilising. this is all the more true of the failure of russia to fulfil its obligations to withdraw its troops from transnistria and georgia. the present draft recommendation calls on the council to be firm in these sensitive security issues. mr president, i can raise many other concerns about the development of the eu-russia partnership. that'll give you an accurate reading of the design recommendation. we did not intend to draw up a list of complaints. the aim is to identify the mutual frictions, to make them negotiable and to find a solution together. it is only logical that the european union should always set its own priorities and draw its own red lines in the negotiations. i see this practical approach in the commission's communication. that is a real satisfaction for me as rapporteur. the fairly wide attention the draft recommendation has received in the russian media to date gives ample reason for satisfaction. our message is clearly being heard by the co-addressee, the russian federation. i would like to thank you very much for this reply. your thoughts and contributions have been invaluable to me. i would like to emphasize once again the excellent assistance provided by the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs, in the person of mr dag sourander. together with him and my personal assistant henk-jan van schothorst, we have been working hard over the past few months on the very comprehensive eu-russia relationship, because, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this house is well placed to have a broadly functioning partnership.
the rapporteur. mr president, there is a disturbing error in amendment no 26 in the second indent. originally the text read sociological characteristics of chechen society but it has been abused to make it people. i therefore ask that the original be retained as "sociological characteristics of chechen society".
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the cities of macau and hong kong were the last remaining settlements on the chinese coast that were governed from europe. by the end of the last century, their long colonial status had rightly come to an end. when they were returned to china, it was agreed that a capitalist economy should be maintained in these cities, but for democracy and human rights there are no such clear guarantees. such agreements are well suited to developments in present-day china, where the heirs of the communist party continue to rule. they do not allow any political opposition and from their protected position of monopoly of power they contribute to the restoration of capitalism. it was foreseeable that the european agreements to return areas to china would lead to the departure of inhabitants who had in the meantime developed european expectations of democracy. these people can no longer legally enter portugal or the united kingdom, and if they do, they are treated as criminals. an agreement with china and other dictatorial countries to allow refugees to return will not solve the problem. unfortunately, once again it seems that europe is more concerned with driving away refugees and expecting to benefit from economic relations with dictatorships than with defending democracy and human rights, for which campaigns have often been launched.
in writing. - (nl) my party, the socialist party of the netherlands, has always supported the efforts to obtain a statute for members of parliament. nevertheless, already at the end of 2002 we asked the dutch government in the council to reject the high monthly salary of eur 8 600 for members of parliament, which was set by parliament and is ultimately part of the statute. such a salary attracts the wrong people to the role of member of parliament. an increase is not at all justifiable at a time when many people are losing their jobs and when social security is being reduced. i am surprised at the greed with which the social democrats and the greens are putting forward amendments which seek to get the member states to accept the statute of members of parliament without first expressing the view that the salaries proposed in it are too high. i am also absolutely not in favour of parliament's money being used to secure the funding of european political groups in order to avoid the commission's objections. the european union still has a surplus of money at its disposal for the time being if we put an end to the vast under-consumption, the useless prestige project galileo, which has been taken over by competitors, the waste of agricultural aid to large farms, the military plans and the costly frauds. this does not justify politicians claiming the right to use these surpluses on themselves.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the eu has two extremes in its relations with russia. on the one hand, there are those who want to take revenge on the old enemy, the soviet union, and who regard the present russia in particular as a conquered territory which will continue to supply oil and natural gas for a long time to come. on the other hand, there are those who want russia as a lasting friend because it is the nearest neighbour, because it has a large population and because it deserves support as a developing country. these two strongly opposed views ultimately have the same negative consequence. they prefer, for reasons of their own economic interests or selfless solidarity, to ignore the shortcomings in the fields of environmental protection, human rights and democracy. if they get their way, russia can continue unchecked to develop into a state which intimidates opponents into withdrawing from all political activity, which deprives parliament of its role, which crushes national minorities by military means, and which completely subordinates the environment to the expectation of short-term economic gain. if we continue to ignore the current problems in russia, the eu will be responsible for creating a monster next door. the member states must not seek conflict with russia, but certainly must not avoid tensions with the russian government at any cost. it is therefore necessary for parliament to issue a critical opinion.
mr president, i have looked at the minutes in detail. i regret that i forgot to sign the previous session in brussels. i was there, i voted, so perhaps you could add my name to the attendance list.
president. - the valenciano report deals with the situation of women from minority groups in the european union, with special attention to disabled women, migrant women and roma women. this is also a current issue in my country, the netherlands. there is an important debate going on at the moment about the integration of migrants. some of them are able to integrate wonderfully quickly, others are very difficult, and it is often difficult for women in particular, who are a crucial factor in integration. i am glad that the subject is on our agenda and that it is on the agenda today on international women's day. our group shares the rapporteur's concerns. the problems are serious and more needs to be done to promote integration and participation in social and political life. there's more to do. the report makes good progress in this respect, particularly with regard to the backwardness caused by discrimination, the discriminatory effects of measures in the fields of education and training, employment, participation in society and protection against violence and sexual abuse. our group also agrees that knowledge of the language is extremely important and that it would be good if this were already being worked on in the country of origin. but the report goes too far in some respects. in particular, paragraph 16 states that everyone with a residence permit must have the same rights as indigenous citizens in all areas, including political, administrative, judicial, economic and social rights. we are not going to go far enough, although we are in favour of working towards a set of minimum rights, so that the various forms of discrimination can be combated and social integration can be promoted, because that is what is at stake. i should also like to say that the often endless list of problems in so many areas and in so many amendments does not enhance the power of the message and, moreover, suggests that the list is limiting. in reality, new problems will constantly arise. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if this is not dealt with, our group will not be able to vote for the report.
mr president, i would like to add my support to what mrs karamanou has just said about the coherence of the commission's policies. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the report on equality between men and women which was presented at the spring summit. the report speaks, one might say, at last, plain english. progress has been made in recent years, but the social disparities between men and women remain extremely persistent. the facts are known: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, such as the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, etc. the spring break will be marked by the oft-voiced aim of making europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. the commission's message is very clear: if we are not prepared to enable women to actually realize their right to equality, then all this fine work will not be done. the ageing population is making the economic base vulnerable. the ratio of so-called active to inactive people must be increased. europe simply cannot afford to leave the economic potential of women unused. but socioeconomic equality cannot be achieved without addressing the power relations between men and women in other areas. violence against women and trafficking in women must be combated, more women must be in public administration, women must have an equal share in research and science. the social inequality between men and women is about power relations: power in the division of the pie, power in the assignment of tasks, power in the use of public space, power in determining the political agenda and definitions, power in naming social problems and power in the struggle for self-determination over our bodies and our lives. equity in these areas is a necessary condition, but it is also the price we pay for the exploitation of our economic potential. this requires tough negotiations at the kitchen table, but also at the tables of political power. we see, mr president, at every summit a sea of men in grey suits, older white men and a few women for the sake of politeness. let's watch them, because one day we'll just laugh at them.
president. - mr president, ten years ago in 1994, the international conference on population and development was held in cairo. a wide range of population and development goals were identified. the action programme was balanced and proved to be a good basis for action, mainly because of the broad support generated at the conference. it also gave a great impetus to the subsequently formulated millennium development goals. the importance of the cairo objectives has not diminished in the last decade. unfortunately, the situation is still not very good at the moment. less than half of the agreed financial targets for the donor countries are met. the position of women has hardly improved in most countries. participation in primary education, especially for girls, is far behind the targets. the progress of the aids epidemic is far from being halted, much less curtailed. basic health care and also reproductive health care still require major investments. i am glad that we are discussing the cairo evaluation today. i regret, however, that it is not in the same spirit as the conclusion reached ten years ago. the report as it stands is only an evaluation of one part of cairo, while there is still much to be done in other areas as well. in my view the report does not do justice to the broad scope of the programme which is generally supported. the report is too one-sided in its focus on the very important and urgent issue of reproductive health, but it is a pity that it does not take into account other important issues which were also explicitly addressed in cairo, such as sustainable development, research, education, especially for women and girls, the role of the family, the fight against violence against women, etc. the report also ignores the agreement reached in cairo that each country will sovereignly implement the recommendations, consistent with national legislation and development priorities. that is certainly important when it comes to ethical issues. that is why i think this deserves support.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr santini, on the report he has presented to us, which of course gives the commissioner great satisfaction, who has obviously been extremely active in this area and is still pursuing his community approach to this problem. it is a good thing that there is now indeed one legal instrument to assess the rights of european citizens when they participate in the free movement of persons within the european union. this free movement has become a clear fundamental right and i think it is also an important point for eu citizens to identify with the union. i've also taken an interest in the definitions of family, family and partnership. i think the descriptions are very businesslike. of course, as a government, you always need something to be recorded, it is not enough to simply claim something or otherwise establish it. there must be an official registration of partnerships. i regret that the word is not being used more generally, because it is not really the government's job to determine whether a partnership is a marriage or some other type of relationship. as far as i'm concerned, that should be possible. this could make the term less burdensome and perhaps also broaden its practical application. it is very important that the concept of family is also well defined in this area. i have the impression that on this women's day there is something in the text about earning a living. the formula 'under the burden of' - i can see mrs swiebel already nodding - seems to be aimed at making a living and as a christian democrat i actually like that, others of course do not. as regards the right itself, i find it a little bit annoying that it is being discussed at this time, when the acceding countries and the people living there cannot for the time being make use of this important fundamental right. i think it is very important to stress once again that we very much regret that the fundamental right of free movement for workers from poland, the czech republic, hungary, etc. is being so tightly restricted at the moment on very loose and insignificant grounds, probably mainly of a populist nature. it is therefore all the more important to stress that we are today reaffirming this right by a debate in this house.
madam president, last december the council rejected a proposal by parliament for a broad definition of the family. as one of the initiators of this proposal, i am naturally pained by this. the council has nevertheless opened the door to free movement for all eu citizens, regardless of the form of relationship they choose. in countries where registered partnerships exist in the national legal system, citizens from other countries with the same relationship should be recognised. member states are expected to facilitate entry and residence for partners in a durable relationship and if member states refuse to admit a family member, they should provide justification. the big step forward, in my view, is that registered partnerships are now recognised as a form of relationship in eu law for the first time. it is also becoming clear that de facto relations are a problem in the eu's free movement and that countries can no longer ignore this fact. it will be interesting to follow the case law on the basis of this new directive. it's certainly not the end of the fight. i'm just saying that after mrs. lambert. a well-known question in political deliberation is always: is the glass half full or is it half empty? in this case, i think, given the discussion in the council and the current political context, that this is the most feasible thing we could have done for eu citizens. i do not see this as giving in to the council's blackmail, as our friends turco and cappato did in their minority position, but rather as counting my blessings. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
the rapporteur. madam president, i am very pleased that the commissioner has thanked me so explicitly for this report, because this is not even the piece of work that needed to be tackled the most. but it's a good thing it's there, we both think so. the history of the subject is also well known, and this is the third time we have discussed it. the first time it went a little wrong because of some flaws in the considerations. we did something about that. the second time this house has agreed to the text and now it has been returned from the council. the council has done a great deal of work on this after we had done some work, and you can see that. we could be very unhappy about that, but i think the commissioner is a bit pragmatic in this area, as we are. it is important that we now have a framework decision and that we now make something happen. i think that we as a parliament should support this somewhat pragmatic approach. the discussions here very often went beyond the main theme of the report. the main theme was a very slight harmonisation of the penalty, which i thought at first, as a more mathematically interested person, did not mean anything at all, but legally it does mean something. we preferred to talk about the legalization of soft drugs in this parliament. but the council and coreper have also been very busy with this. the netherlands in particular has apparently been quite opposed to this framework decision, because it considers it a petty matter of national sovereignty to protect the coffee shops. that is an important dutch invention, which is overestimated by some in its significance and certainly in its positive meaning. the policy of the dutch authorities is now aimed at reducing this phenomenon and certainly at countering municipal councils that open coffeeshops at the border, where customs offices have become empty, so that germans, belgians and french people from outside the municipality can use this facility. i am glad that this is something that is becoming obsolete and i also find it extremely reprehensible in principle that such a thing has ever happened and that plans for it have existed in a number of municipal councils. it is therefore a good thing that parliament has recovered some of what it said about penalties and scope, because the discussion in the council has made clear what we have already found here: it must be about large-scale international trade and we now find that clearly reflected in the framework decision. the scale of soft and hard drugs is also reflected in the penalties, because it is linked to the severity of the punishment. i should like to see no amendments tabled, but there is one from mrs buitenweg. i would like to tell her that what she means by her amendment, in relation to the scope of application, large-scale international drug trafficking on the one hand and personal use on the other, is already implicitly included in the text. article 2 (2) deals with the definition of criminal offences. it is quite clear what we think and what the council thinks. article 2 deals with attempted supply of drugs and that is particularly the coffee shop policy and article 4 (2) deals with sanctions, and that too is very clearly about the big international trade. i would therefore recommend to mrs buitenweg that she withdraw her amendment, because it is even more important that you can say, also in this plenary session, that it is all very explicitly stated in the text. so i think it is a good thing that the debate is now being continued. of course there are a number of things we are missing, for example something like aggravating circumstances, we had included a few things about that. there is something in the framework decision on this subject, but it has only a purely legal meaning and not the moral meaning we gave it, particularly where it concerned the criminalization of the temptation of young people to use these vile substances. but i support the commissioner in saying that this framework decision must now be accepted as a small but clear step and it is clear that europe wants to intervene.
madam president, the present framework decision has been discussed before. the rapporteur has already mentioned that. the netherlands was not only in disagreement within parliament but also within the council. for two years the decision was held up by the netherlands, which feared that the tolerance system would be compromised. i think it would be good if the dutch policy, which is different from the international one, were to change course under pressure from european states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the legal cooperation and expulsion to other member states are not made compulsory and are formulated in such a way that the dutch policy falls within the scope of the principle of subsidiarity. while the minimum penalty is being increased significantly, from one month to one year, the netherlands is not required to impose this penalty. despite these reservations, i am pleased that a common framework now exists to combat the drug trade which is destroying so many lives. i hope that the member states, including the netherlands, will do serious work on this. their citizens are worth it. (applause from the left)
president. - i speak on behalf of mrs dorette corbey and i would like to make five comments. firstly, transparency and control of food safety is of course of great importance. more rules and more controls do not in themselves guarantee better food safety. the only way to end food riots is to demand transparency. information on companies that are not as strict about food safety should be public. you mess around, you lose customers. transparency is an important condition for food safety and we are pleased with the compromise reached. secondly, the financing of the checks must be fair. we must prevent unfair subsidies to companies and unfair competition. small firms can get a discount, so that we can provide some assistance to this category of firms, which is very important in the food sector. a third point concerns the correct and fair application of this legislation. our group has called for uniform checks and uniform methods throughout the union. it is not possible for the consignment to be rejected in rotterdam on grounds of food safety and then to enter the union by another route. our question to the commission: can the commission give a commitment that it will, in the interests of the european citizen and in the interests of fair competition, monitor closely the correct implementation of this legislation? fourthly, our group is very pleased with the support which the union is going to give to the developing countries to help them build up their capacity to comply with european food safety rules. that's how the knife cuts on two sides. the union is increasing the food safety of imported products and developing countries are receiving significant support to take measures that can improve their food safety situation and thus their trading position. food security must not be a cover for protectionism. commissioner, we must also keep an eye on the current situation. in view of the outbreak of avian influenza in asia, it is important that food safety is controlled in the countries of origin. does the commission agree that this and other community legislation provides the union with good and adequate protection against the introduction of infectious diseases such as avian influenza? finally, a general comment. i would like to thank mrs paulsen again, on behalf of our group, the social democrats, and also the council and the commission for their constructive work. we hope that this milestone will mark the completion of an important piece of work over the last five years and we look forward to the commission's replies.
i would like to thank mrs fourtou, all the shadow rapporteurs and also the commission and the council for the structural and constructive cooperation we have had over the last three months, because the way in which a compromise has been reached on this directive is, in my view, exceptional. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market thought a little differently, but in the end i think that this compromise is a start and i hope that it will be adopted. mr president, intellectual property rights are finally being recognized throughout europe. there were already various directives and legislation, including on copyright, electronic commerce, software, etc., but none of them spoke of enforcement, or at least not enough, and this is why we are left with a patchwork quilt in europe. in this respect, it is good that we now have a kind of umbrella legislation for the harmonised implementation throughout the union of all the existing directives in the field of intellectual property rights. as has been said by many, counterfeiting and piracy are increasing hand in hand in europe. we see that criminal organizations are moving from drug trafficking to counterfeiting because the chances of getting caught are minimal and the profits are as high or maybe even higher. i think we should call a halt to this. i think, mr president, that we need a harmonised approach, not only because criminal organisations are making money illegally from these products, but also to protect our economy, to achieve the lisbon objectives and, ultimately, above all to protect consumers. - why? - why? we're not just talking about, as some people think, copied cds, but a wide range of products that are being copied. i call toys, for example. i've seen toys that contain cadmium. the cadmium directive prohibits the use of cadmium in toys produced in europe, but counterfeit products may still contain it because they are imported illegally. medication was also mentioned. there are examples of painkillers that contain talc powder and i don't think this is possible. there is a lot of money to be made in this, but i think the consumer must be protected. even aircraft parts are counterfeited because of the high profits that can be made from them. it is good that something is being done to put an end to this. i was the one who suggested that we should include a reference to criminal law in the green paper phase, because we do not buy a stolen bicycle because it was stolen, we have so many standards and values, but we would like to buy a fake breitling watch or another fake product because it is cheap. if this is incorporated into criminal law and possession of a more expensive counterfeit product is made a criminal offence, then there is no longer a market for it and it is no longer interesting for organisations to produce counterfeit products. it is a pity that certain strict rules have not been included, as mr berenguer fuster has already pointed out, but i am satisfied with the compromise reached. a lot of the ambiguities that lobbyists used to argue against are no longer in the proposal. i believe that this proposal is the beginning of the end of counterfeiting and i hope that it will develop into a mature directive with mature means of enforcement.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the enforcement directive we are discussing today is completely unnecessary. there is already a directive on the harmonisation of copyright and, in addition, there is also the directive on electronic commerce, which regulates, among other things, the rights and obligations of service providers. this new directive threatens to disrupt the obligation to monitor what users do. the compromise now before us therefore expressly states that earlier directives will remain in force indefinitely, and that is a good thing. why else would we be legislating here? we do not want american states where legislation is made on the whim of the day. this new enforcement directive officially declares illegal copyists thieves, but everyone has long known that the illegal copying of software, cds and dvds is a criminal offence. there is absolutely no need for a new directive, and certainly no directive which does not define the scope of intellectual property law. we have different criminal justice systems in europe with different sentencing levels and we cannot harmonize the legal systems with a directive, certainly not without a proper debate in this parliament. i am glad that the compromise now limits the scope of the directive to piracy for commercial purposes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i shall nevertheless vote against the directive.
president, ladies and gentlemen, for many years now, the european union and this parliament have been complaining about products from the israeli-occupied territories being unjustly given the same preferential treatment as products from israel itself. israel does not want to make the distinction, but the european union does. the heart of that debate is political. the occupation of the areas in question is illegal in the eyes of the european union and that is why we have made this matter such a problem. the debate, which is thus politically oriented, is, however, in danger of being overshadowed by a number of practical and legal aspects. the problem is - and this is the reason for asking these questions now - that the commission and the council, tired of years of back and forth, are now threatening to agree to the current practice. if that happens, an illegal practice will be legitimized and the member states will lose the legal basis to continue to distinguish between products from israel and products from the occupied territories. that is why i have two questions to the commission. first of all: what steps does the commission intend to take before november this year, when a new commission takes office, to put an end to the current practice and when exactly? secondly: can the commissioner guarantee that any decision he takes which may have consequences for the spirit, the letter and the practice of the association agreement will first be submitted to this parliament for its opinion?
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about the 1995 association agreement. i have no objection to this agreement as such. it contains fundamental norms and values which are respected and which israel as a democracy can rely on. that's not the problem. what i find incomprehensible, however, and why i have asked these questions, is that the european union has for years been allowing israel to violate the rules of origin of the convention. under these rules of origin - which are, of course, a piece of cake for you - israel is not allowed to sell products from israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories as if they were from israel itself. otherwise, the products of the illegal settlements will enjoy unduly favourable import duties in europe. as mr lagendijk has said, this is a political matter. i am also aware that the european commission has addressed israel on this matter and has been given the ironclad statement that israel regards the settlements as israeli territory. the european governments are not reacting and are thus agreeing to this violation of the agreement which they themselves have approved. this makes us partly responsible for the continuation of the colonization policy, one of the greatest obstacles to peace. that, commissioner, is the crux of the matter. we cannot be partly responsible for this. the member states are obliged under the ec treaty, the community customs code and the association agreement to refuse preferential treatment on the importation of products from the settlements. as commissioner and guardian of the treaties, you must ensure that the member states comply with these obligations. mr president, these problems must be solved, and immediately, and i therefore ask the commissioner if he really wants to put an end to these cases and come up with a real legal solution so that a uniform verification procedure can be followed in the member states. the customs authorities of the member states can then simply collect import duties on settlement products without the importers being able to challenge this. president. - i call mr glinne. the only thing is that we do not want to be partly responsible for the settlement problem and i ask you to put forward any possible solutions to parliament.
mr president, as the debate shows, this is a complicated and sensitive subject. i can agree with the previous speakers, and in particular with my colleague armin laschet. mr president, there are obviously serious questions about the preferential access to the community market for products from the israeli settlements in the west bank and the gaza strip. as i understand it, preferential imports from the areas mentioned would be in breach of community law. now i understand that the european union wants to amend the association agreement with israel by adding pan-european cumulation of origin and implementing jordanian-israeli cumulation of origin. but the question is whether such a system of cumulation is possible without a solution to the problem of preferential imports of products from the occupied territories. i think it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament is consulted in good time before any part of the existing agreement is amended. i join with previous speakers: it is important that this should be done, if possible, before the end of the mandate of this commission. we very much appreciate the commission's clear statement of these problems. does the commission see any way of resolving the problems with israel within a reasonable time? i thank the commissioner for his first comment and look forward to his second. as the previous speaker has already pointed out, it is not a question of a measure for or against israel.
mr president, i hope to set an example of dutch sobriety. on 4 september 2003, this house was already debating the correct application of the ec-israel association agreement. on that occasion i quoted the statement of the dutch minister for foreign affairs that 'for the vast majority of products bearing the israeli certificate of origin, the netherlands can assume that the israeli customs determinations of origin have been validly made, that is to say that they meet all the conditions of the origin protocol'. last year i asked the commission if it could endorse this hague statement for the other member states of the european union. an answer remained then. perhaps the commission representative will be a little more vocal today. but i'm not going to give up and ask you a second question. is the collection of customs duties from importers of products suspected of originating in israeli settlements a unilateral policy? what is the commission's view on this?
the amendments to the budget, which will be voted on shortly, relate to the accession of the new member states on 1 may this year. the committee on budgets has already unanimously approved this budget and parliament as a whole also approved everything in principle last december. for legal reasons, we have to make this official now, and that could happen soon. i would point out that the observers in the committee on budgets played a very active and constructive role in the adoption of the budget for the new countries and that we in the committee on budgets increased certain payment appropriations. some in the council always think that parliament is too generous with money and has a hole in its hand, so to speak. i would point out that with the enlargement of ten new countries the percentage of gross national income spent on the european budget is 0.98%, the lowest since 1990. so i think parliament is very good with money. if you vote yes in the near future, and i hope you do so in large numbers, then there will be no financial obstacle to the admission of all the new member states to the european union on 1 may this year.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the commission's proposals. unfortunately, the ppe-de group has tabled a number of amendments which my group cannot accept. in europe, it goes without saying that women have the right to good sexual and reproductive health care. it is completely incomprehensible to me that the ppe-de group does not want the people of the developing countries to have the same right. it is also clear that the conservative bush administration, by reinstating the mexico city policy and continuing to make unjustified accusations that abortion is against the main objective of unfpa, is making work on sexual and reproductive health care very difficult. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the family is protected and supported. what about the young girls and women who are raped in war situations or in other situations? or what about women and girls who are forced by their environment and especially by family members to be sexually mutilated? should we leave them to their fate? my group does not think so and has therefore voted against all these amendments.
president, commissioner, this is an important report on an important subject. i should like to speak on behalf of the ppe-de group. i appreciate the rapporteur's approach. it is a good thing that he has strengthened the legal basis of this report in line with the approach of my group. i would like to express my appreciation for the good cooperation. mr president, this is the very heart and soul of our rule of law. more than two years after the united states transferred some 660 foreign prisoners to guantanamo bay as part of its fight against the taliban and al-qaeda, unfortunately, there is still uncertainty: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the child is not subject to any discrimination. in short, a legal vacuum. the us supreme court is now considering whether us courts have jurisdiction to assess the legal status of detainees. the great involvement of our american ally in the implications of terrorism, following those horrendous attacks of september 11th, is self-evident. on the other hand, we are now several years later and the prisoners on the cuban base still do not have access to justice. this situation cannot and must not continue. it is precisely because of the transatlantic dialogue, which is so important and irreplaceable, that it is important to address our american friends. allies may make an urgent appeal to one another. i recognize that the geneva convention of 1949 is no longer fully adequate to new threats such as terrorism. it is important that international law evolves with it, so that a legal basis is in place to address new security problems. even the worst terrorist has a right to a fair trial. that's the point. international law is the basis for this. i would mention the principle of habeas corpus and the right to due process of law as examples. i am referring to important conventions such as the universal declaration of human rights, the european convention on human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights, the geneva convention, also mentioned by the rapporteur, and others. all these conventions have a mandate to ensure the humane treatment of prisoners and the right to a fair trial. ultimately, it's about human dignity, every human being counts. i would like to endorse what the rapporteur has said on this point. finally, i call on the council to continue to bring the case of the detainees at guantanamo bay to the attention of the united states authorities. this case is worth it. this case is more than worth it.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, and the proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for women and men in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and vocational training, and the proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and vocational training, and vocational training, and vocational training and retraining, is a very important one. is this a signal from the commission that the countries of the western balkans are now suddenly counted among the candidate countries, even though they are not officially candidates yet? i would applaud it, let there be no misunderstanding about it. it's remarkable in every way. as regards the proposals themselves, the commissioner has already referred to their source, the thessaloniki summit last year. at that summit, under strong pressure from the greek presidency, the european council wanted to make a gesture to the countries of the western balkans, with the main political message that they had indeed embarked on the road to europe and that the eu wanted to help them on their journey by offering them an additional instrument in the form of the european partnerships. the reason for this initiative was that there is no doubt, not even in this house, that these countries will ever become members. the only question is when and under what conditions. but if i look at the commission's proposal to implement the fine decision of thessaloniki, mr president, commissioner, i have to say that i have serious doubts whether that decision was wise. what is the added value of introducing a new instrument, namely the european partnerships, at this time? we are, as the european union, and you know this better than we are, involved in the extremely complex process of the stabilisation and association agreements being concluded with all the countries of the region. at least that's the goal. we have succeeded with croatia, we have succeeded with macedonia and we are still negotiating with the other three countries. this process is going to be bumpy. it's not easy. in three of the five countries, major problems remain and much work remains to be done. now, suddenly, in the middle of that process, a new instrument is emerging, the european partnerships. they are not coming after the stabilisation and association agreements but through them. i must say that i do not understand this commission very well, but i think that the commission, like parliament, is bound by the mandate of the council, even if it cannot say it out loud like we can. i fear that a new instrument has been created which no one needs and no one is waiting for. it creates uncertainty in the region and i think we must be very careful not to offer the countries there an empty box with a nice ribbon around it, when we ourselves do not know exactly what we want with this initiative. this is a matter of symbolism, ladies and gentlemen, and we must be very careful about this. if we're going to continue this, there are two things i'd like to point out. firstly, the finances which normally go with such partnerships - look at the great example of these european partnerships - namely the partnerships prior to the status of candidate country. so if we're creating a new instrument, why not add new money? your colleague, mr patten, has already said here on several occasions that he has no difficulty in spending the money he has now and that he would like to have more money from parliament to help those countries. i can therefore accept the idea of european partnerships, but then it must be clear how much money we have available for this. if no more money is spent than is already available, the whole initiative is an empty box with a nice bow around it. it's the terms that matter. the new instruments must not impose new conditions. we have already set very strict conditions for the european union's aid to these countries: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the return of refugees, the fight against corruption and cooperation with the hague tribunal. please let's keep it that way. i am glad that the commission has said that the existing conditions will not be changed, but please make this sufficiently clear! the new instruments shall not contain any new conditions. i am passionate about the european union's strict adherence to the existing conditions, because i do see the tendency in the council at times to go a little bit beyond that and not stick to the criteria that have been set in the past. this is necessary, though. the tactic must be rooted in the fact that the problems in this region are serious and if we give the impression that the countries in question will ever automatically join, it will end badly. i am in favour, let there be no misunderstanding, of going ahead, of wholeheartedly supporting the reforms and the reformers. the european union has no other option than to support these countries and the people who are leading them in reform. if we need new instruments for that, fine, let's introduce them. but if we have already come a long way with the instruments we have and if new instruments only create ambiguity, i reject the new instruments.
president, commissioner wallström, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the heavy metals and pahs mentioned have been known for many years to be harmful to the environment and to human health to a greater or lesser degree. these substances are not meant to be in the air. the impact studies do not add much to this in my view. these studies cost a lot of money and leave us as politicians with the same amount of uncertainty. i believe that we must do everything we can to remove as many of these harmful substances as possible from our air. the european commission is only interested in monitoring pollution. i think this is too limited and i have a fundamental objection to this approach. mapping pollution alone does not improve air quality. the other subsidiary air quality directives do propose binding limit values. i don't understand why this wasn't done here. on the other hand, i also realise that we must be realistic, perhaps the limit values in the previous subsidiary directives were too strict. this does not mean, however, that we should now opt for non-binding targets. in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection i supported the approach of the rapporteur, mr kronberger. mr kronberger is now negotiating an agreement at first reading with the council. i think this is a good cause. as the outcome of these negotiations is not yet known, i cannot take a position on this at this stage. i would agree with mr kronberger that we should not, of course, set binding limit values below the background concentration. i am a strong advocate of realistic limits. for example, it is known that emissions are largely caused by diffuse sources, such as heating of homes and traffic. these sources are very difficult to deal with. however, there are some results in several sectors of industry. we are not thinking only of the metal industry, but also of power stations, waste incineration plants and the waste recycling sector. the incineration of waste releases a considerable amount of heavy metals. how much is not known precisely, because the obligations for measuring emissions are very minimal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. i hope that we can reach an agreement with the council on this.
the greens/efa group fully supports the report by mr kronberger. limits are necessary, for example for arsenic. this is a real problem in my country. the town of coevorden, near the german border, has embarked on a plan to burn virtually all of europe's old railway carriages. the arsenic from those buttocks is being blown into the air by this. that's completely wrong. that's why we need strict limits. if they cannot be immediately available because the political majority is not in favour, that is extremely regrettable, but these heavy metals are carcinogenic and their use must be restricted. if that is to be achieved in the short term by means of targets, i am in agreement with a shriek of approval. but in the longer term, there should be limit values, based on one extra case of cancer in a million cases. we have taken the same approach with the drinking water directive. it was accepted by the commission, which had proposed it, the council and parliament. why don't we do the same for arsenic, cadmium, mercury and nickel? that would be the way to a possible compromise.
president. - on saturday, the day before the cancún failure, the alliance of african and low income countries gave its opinion. they felt that the united states in particular had completely ignored them. the united states is supporting south carolina's cotton farmers with as much as 3.5 billion euros. europe, ladies and gentlemen, is supporting its cotton sector with only 800 million euros. the african cotton states are being threatened by this. this is how active poverty is created. the lowest-income countries rightly protest against this. this is confirmed by the resolution adopted at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in february. as aids drugs are the symbol of the breakthrough in doha, cotton is the symbol of the failure in cancún. the cotton aid in europe fits into an agricultural policy with money-wasting subsidies for cereals, meat and milk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from quantity to quality. but the conservative lobby in the european parliament has blocked that. now the commission is coming up with a modest proposal to decouple 60% and then shift a large part of that subsidy to rural development in the region concerned. but the majority of the european parliament is hiding behind the us and behind the unknown of the consequences and therefore advocates a 20% disengagement. i can understand my spanish colleagues if they want to tackle not only cotton but also grain, meat and milk, but i regret that we have not acted more decisively and shown that we have understood the lessons of cancún. by weakening the commission's proposals, we are not sending enough signals to those people in the world who want fair trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that we are sending a clear signal to the european commission. i urge the commissioner to persevere.
mr president, the disconnection of aid from production would give european agriculture an advantage in the world trade organisation negotiations. that is what commissioner fischler has always said. the european agricultural policy has been adjusted, but there is no sign of any change within the world trade organisation. worse still, other trading blocs do not seem to be planning to end their trade-distorting aid. i am therefore wary of the commission's justification for decoupling from the cotton premium on the grounds that this is being pushed for within the world trade organisation. we know from experience that this argument doesn't hold up. the european union accounts for less than 3% of world cotton production, while it imports 48% of its cotton duty-free. the claim that european state aid is disrupting the world cotton market is a very false one. the reform of the cotton sector is therefore not so much needed from the world trade organisation's point of view as from the point of view of a vital rural area. the reform must aim at improving the quality and, where possible, also preserving employment in this sector. however, agricultural subsidies should not be used as a kind of structural fund. it is important to monitor closely the financial impact of the reform in order to intervene in a timely manner where necessary. the aid to the tobacco sector is of a very different order from that for cotton production. the gothenburg summit rightly decided to reduce aid for tobacco production. unlike cotton, tobacco is not just an agricultural product. its use is carcinogenic and leads to cardiovascular disease in many. in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection we are debating the health risks of minimal residues of pesticides on our food, and then it is absurd to spend 1 billion euros a year on tobacco production. i think that the introduction of decoupling, alternative crops and modulation for rural development in this sector cannot be done quickly enough.
- mr president, this month, for the second time in a short time, the irish-led heads of government, following the failure of the italian presidency in december, are faced with a choice which is decisive for the future of the european union. the european council in italy was a disgrace when it failed to set aside the narrow national interest and opt for a more democratic, efficient and transparent europe. many wonder whether the donkey will strike the same national stone a second time. fortunately, the irish presidency has already done a lot of work in recent months. there is a willingness to reach an agreement, something is moving very cautiously in europe. i would urge the irish presidency to exercise caution, because another failure would be fatal to the confidence of the european voters who go to the polls in june. if the heads of government fail again this time, we shall have no chance of convincing the european electorate of the strength of europe. in view of this, it is better to wait a little longer than to have no constitution at all. i would like to stress once again that it must be a text that is good for europe. let us not allow another mouse to be born, as was the case at the nice meeting of heads of government in 2000. the draft constitution of the european convention was good news for europe and its citizens. it provides for a more democratic, more comprehensive and, above all, more effective europe. that is why we must stick as close as possible to these proposals, without weakening the rights of the european parliament, without resorting to backroom politics and without losing transparency. the idea of one commissioner per country must be accepted, the naples defence agreement must be exploited and social europe must be strengthened. so let the leaders of the governments this time not give birth to a mouse, but to a beautiful european baby. i believe, mr president, that if there is no constitution, the heads of government will plunge europe into a crisis, further enlargement will be blocked and the financial problems will become insoluble. this is a decisive moment for them and for europe. i wish the irish presidency every success, because it is working in a way that is very trustworthy in this house.
- mr president, i want to concentrate on romania in my contribution for three reasons. the first is that the current discussion on romania is, in my view, the best possible evaluation of the current enlargement round. the conclusion of this discussion is that the main problems in the new member states do not relate to the fisheries chapter or the transport chapter, however important and interesting. the most persistent problems in the new member states relate to the functioning of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression. that brings me to my second reason, if the honourable members will allow me, mr president, because it is getting very noisy in here. the debate on romania is also of great importance for future enlargements to turkey and the balkans for the following reasons: we cannot in good conscience in ankara and zagreb press for an improvement in human rights or the rights of minorities if we allow the situation in bucharest to stagnate and in some cases even to deteriorate. that brings me to my third point, the problematic situation in romania itself. the reform of the rule of law is still in its infancy. critical journalists are still being denied the right to work. corruption is still a huge problem, reaching to the highest political levels. the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne is critical of this and rightly so. i would say to my colleagues in the socialist group that those who are in favour of enlargement have a duty to be critical, more so than those who are against it, and they must remain critical. it is encouraging, mr president, that this critical attitude is what is leading to results. the romanian government has announced new reforms in recent days and has accelerated the old reforms. the minister of justice has had to step down because he is considered responsible for the stagnation. my appeal to the romanian government is to continue with the reforms, otherwise it can forget about accession in 2007. my appeal to ngos and journalists is to continue their critical work and keep us informed. the european union is good at influencing countries by giving them a carrot, but sometimes a little educational touch with the stick can do wonders.
- mr president, who wants to return to a europe divided into two hostile political camps? who is to blame for the people of central and eastern europe's lack of personal and political freedom? it has become a delayed liberation, it has lasted until 1989. on 1 may, liberation will be crowned on the continent with the eastward enlargement of the european union, which is freely supported by all concerned. at the same time, all involved bear a heavy responsibility. the european union is a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. this creates a sense of national citizenship, the foundation for europe-wide cooperation. a great authority on central and eastern europe, hugh seton-watson, called this region the sick heart of europe only a few decades ago. may the enlarged union prove to be a tried and tested medicine. this requires a considerable mutual effort, a sincere serving of one another. that is the commitment i have seen in my constituency over the past few years. my group and i wish to continue along this thoroughly christian path.
the report shall be submitted to the european parliament and to the council. - mr president, i too am tempted to say a great deal about romania, but i shall confine myself today to the country for which i have been responsible in recent years, namely slovakia. i realize that this report is not the most important, and perhaps the least important, of all the reports we have produced on this country over the last six or seven years. the fact is that slovakia will become a member of the european union on 1 may. i've been following the country for years, and the progress in many areas is undeniable. let this be a compliment to a small country, which was the last to become independent and also the last to join the negotiating countries, as a result of the political problems until the 1998 elections. today we are discussing the outstanding issues and what has to be done in the acceding countries before 1 may. i agree with the european commission on this point with regard to slovakia. it is the task of the government in bratislava to do what is necessary, otherwise the country will have a problem after 1 may, with all the consequences that follow. i agree with what commissioner verheugen said this morning: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. i hope, however, as he does, that the problems will be solved before 1 may. some general remarks should not be omitted from this report. i reiterate my concern about corruption and encourage the government to continue to give high priority to the fight against it. slovakia's economic situation is improving. the economic growth is decent, unemployment is falling, but i doubt that every slovak is benefiting from it. the reforms in social security, particularly those aimed at shifting beneficiaries from benefits to work, are modern but in practice they have proved to be negative for certain groups. this is particularly true for roma in some parts of the country, especially in eastern slovakia, where there are few jobs for this group. of course, that's not how a scheme works. this may have contributed to some of the recent bad incidents, such as shoplifting. there is no excuse for such actions in themselves, they are prohibited, but i would advise the slovaks to look carefully at their social legislation. slovakia has promised to do more for the roma, not less. i therefore have no objection to amendments which would emphasize this point. i do object to amendments which accept the link between the looting of shops and the problems of social security. i think that one is unacceptable and that something must be done about the other.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i should like to begin by congratulating bulgaria on the progress it has made: 26 chapters have been closed, 6 others are still open. however, much more needs to be done in the area of the investment climate, by establishing a transparent and clear business environment so that entrepreneurs know that their investments are safe and cannot be lost due to corruption. i would like to say the following about the kozloduy nuclear power plant. if the inspection carried out in november 2003 shows compliance with all the recommendations of the atomic question group, the commission may consider postponing the closure of kozlodoej 3 and 4 for a while. however, if this is not the case, the commission should stick to the agreed timetable for the closure of units 3 and 4. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. despite all the efforts of the romanian authorities, we must note that the country still does not have a functioning market economy. in practice, much more needs to be done in the field of eradicating corruption and implementing effective and consistent structural reforms. romania's path towards the european union is difficult, owing to the late start of privatisation, the slow reform of state-owned enterprises and the fact that the business climate in the country is still lagging behind. it is not attractive for foreign investors to go to romania. the romanian authorities have also been unable to provide the necessary financial support to the romanian authorities. what we need is a culture of accountability and enforcement of the law. we therefore welcome the proposal in the brok report to reorientate the approach and at the same time to give much greater attention to the problem of the rule of law. the restructuring of core sectors such as energy, mining and transport will also have to take place. romania thus still has a tremendous amount of work to do.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. - the president of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism welcomes the report on romania. as rapporteur for the opinion, i would like to make a few points. romania is making considerable progress in the field of transport. nevertheless, privatisation and restructuring in this sector deserve special attention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the romanian fleet is able to comply with the requirements of the treaty. this house is taking this problem seriously. romania must solve it before accession. the lack of official capacity for regional policy means that the stimulus from the european funds is unlikely to have the desired effect, whereas the socioeconomic situation requires it. we ask romania to make a serious effort to improve the civil service in such a way that the proper use and control of the funds is guaranteed. my amendments seek to make some changes to that. romania is making progress, but the road to accession is still long. i would like to encourage the country to press forward along this path.
mr president, we are today holding the final debate on the accession of ten candidate countries to the european union. these are ten countries, none of which has received a so-called date, and this has encouraged them to take full responsibility for the success of the accession process. there is a couple of candidates, romania and bulgaria, who have to spend a little more time in the regatta, and romania is far behind. the ppe-de group fully supports the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne, which we consider to be an important contribution to highlighting the problems romania still has, in particular to meet the political criteria of copenhagen. this is romania's own responsibility: the key to success lies in bucharest, as the commissioner has already said. this list of problems was one reason for the foreign affairs committee to send a unanimous warning to bucharest. the tone of the speech was clear enough to wake up the romanian government. reorientation of the process is now required. first, there was a large-scale lobbying campaign by the romanian government, with the message that there was no need for reorientation. the romanian prime minister's subsequent list of tasks to be carried out was much more constructive, as are the recent reforms of his cabinet to give the eu negotiations a better chance of success. this is the basis for meeting the commitments of copenhagen. we are very pleased that the council and the commission share the concerns of the european parliament. the commissioner has already said that the great enlargement of 1 may is causing european citizens to fear the unknown, and we must proceed with the greatest possible care with the future accessions. the citizens must be convinced that the applicant countries offer them the same guarantees as the 15 present member states. corruption, which is the subject of many complaints from humanitarian organizations in our countries, freedom of the press, which is also the subject of many complaints, the problems of justice and child care, these are the major issues that must be dealt with and resolved as a matter of priority. this approach has aroused great enthusiasm among the citizens of romania, as evidenced by the many letters received. it's important to show them that we're drawing their fate into our own hands. to that end, the contribution of baroness nicholson of winterbourne is extremely important.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the tight deadlines that parliament has accepted for the discussion and vote of these guidelines, as well as the strong commitment it is making to reach an agreement that will allow the work to be completed before the end of this parliamentary term, testify to the importance of parliament also accepting the definition of european transport networks, both as an instrument for the construction of the internal market and as an instrument for strengthening the cohesion of the union. it is a tool which will have a profound impact, hierarchising it, on its territory, and then forcing everyone to find their own role in the construction of the new european area. the ten was first defined in 1996, and then we had to re-define it several times, even changing the content, because the motorways of the sea are a novelty that must be interpreted above all as a tool that allows us to remove some traffic from the congested roads of our union. we are now faced with a twofold requirement: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this should therefore recommend a twofold flexibility: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide the member states with the possibility of adopting a proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the common fisheries policy. i say this because we are basically marking the great rivers, but the great rivers are such if they have the tributaries that work, if the conduits that lead to them are actually made. well, then, i'll allow myself to insist that you reflect on this fact: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
- mr president, some major bottlenecks in the transeuropean transport network have blocked the movement of people and goods at the junction with the alps, the pyrenees and some sea lanes. not only the hauliers but also the inhabitants of mountain, valley and coastal towns complain of tremendous traffic congestion. no one felt called to build tunnels and bridges to remove these bottlenecks. moreover, for many years rail transport has not kept pace with the need for fast connections between the major cities in different countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the member states. it would be shortsighted to measure our prosperity, our well-being and our progress by the growth of transport, or by the surface of asphalt and concrete for highways and airports. on the contrary, the avoidance of unnecessary transport contributes to a better environment and to the well-being of humans and animals. my group believes that an adequate level of public spending is essential for public services, social security and the environment. on the other hand, waste of public money and megalomania do not solve any problem. we are opposed to the idea that endless investment of community money in asphalt is the best way of creating and maintaining jobs or of helping the new member states to progress. nor are we happy with the idea of offering excess capacity to operators so that they can choose again and again which infrastructure financed by community funds can be used by them at the moment most cheaply. the van miert plan, presented at the end of june last year, was immediately hailed by the italian minister for transport as the answer of transport to the euro. does he view traffic as an uncontrollable natural phenomenon that makes people dependent on it? in our vision, people and the environment are above traffic. that is why we think that the van miert plan is too large, too dangerous for the environment and far too expensive. a more selective plan, focusing on more direct and faster rail transport, is preferable. that will be our starting point when we amend this proposal.
- mr president, behind the scenes all those involved are working very hard, under the leadership of the rapporteur, to complete this dossier during this term of office. the importance of this matter and the amount of time that has already elapsed justify urgency. in a few months the number of countries concerned will increase to 25, which may further delay decision-making, especially if the list of projects in the annex is extended. i am glad to see that several colleagues seem to be satisfied with an optimisation of the projects already taken up. the only addition will be the seine-nord, which now has a large support base. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this obligation already exists in most member states and a doubling of it would delay the implementation of projects even more than is already the case. it's bad enough that funding is holding up projects for so long. in short, let us quickly reach an agreement with the council, essentially on the basis of the commission's proposals.
- mr president, i am extremely surprised by the answer of the president-in-office. the council is currently considering an agreement between europe and the united states, and the relevant article 31 committee has given the green light, or almost given the green light, on behalf of the council to conclude an agreement with the united states. the annex to this agreement also lists caps ii (computer assisted passenger prescreening system ii). it is not possible, therefore, that the council is unaware of what is going on, and i think mr cappato's question is very clear: he asked whether there was any illegality and whether there was any violation of our regulations. the council cannot say that this is a matter for the protection authorities alone. these authorities have also indicated that this matter is illegal. yes, something must be done. the council is right that this must be done on a country-by-country basis, but it also has a role to play. the council has delegated part of this task to the european commission, while it is obvious that it is not aware of the facts and, worse, has not informed the national parliaments. i would therefore ask the council to ensure that this is done.
- mr president, the european aviation industry is in full swing and in exciting times. since 9/11, it's been like this week after week. before i give any substance to the reports, i would like to express my satisfaction in this chamber once again that we have obtained european approval for the merger of air france and klm and also approval from the competent american authority. this is important for the sector, particularly for the consolidation of the european aviation sector, because there is more to come. more operations are in the offing to ensure that the sector has a good economic foundation. as regards the report by my outgoing liberal colleague, nick clegg, i would like to stress the value of the amendment in the face of increasing competition. many international competitors of european airlines are being allowed to compete with european airlines on the basis of government measures on unfair terms. it's good to fight back. as regards mr dhaene's report, i think it sounds very musical if someone can state in such a concrete and realistic way why he is not writing his own report at the moment. i think it is a very high-class witness and i expect that he will organize another bicycle tour, perhaps the next round of talks can be held. finally, as regards mr nicholson's report, i am glad that we were able to work together in such an intensive way at a very early stage, across party lines, to ensure a realistic result which is also in line with the icac agreements which provide for a system of international premiums. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the air transport sector. the special exception which has just been mentioned is of course extremely important for ultralight aircraft, governmental equipment and classic cases. i am very pleased with the progress and i also think it is very positive that mr nicholson has done his best to ensure that we have a good product here until the very last minute.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, this afternoon, commissioner bolkestein presented his latest book on the frontiers of europe here in strasbourg. i'm sorry i couldn't be there, commissioner, but congratulations on this one. i would like to speak tonight about the limits of the commissioner's drive for liberalization, which do not seem to exist. first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague bill miller for the great cooperation. it is not his fault that the report which was voted on in the legal affairs committee was somewhat distorted. i now understand that mr harbour is taking the blame for this. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i am naturally very disappointed that only three of my amendments have been accepted by the committee on legal affairs. my group has tabled the other amendments again and we hope that the christian democrats and the liberal socialists will support them tomorrow. as far as the liberalization drive is concerned, i can reassure mr bolkestein. i am not necessarily against liberalization, as some of my colleagues on the left here are, but i am against market fundamentalism and the cost of pushing through liberalization when the conditions and public guarantees are far from being met and liberalization is a loss on all fronts except for the private monopolists and their supporters, who can strike a blow with it. it is high time that we in europe put a stop to this kind of liberalisation and that a framework directive on services of general interest is put in place to counter the dominance of competition rules. i see that the commissioner is hesitating and is turning us down with one pretext after another. a final comment on the new directive on the internal market for services: i think that this is the height of madness, because it undermines everything we have established in europe in the field of subsidiarity and the prevalence of the rules of the country where the services are provided. the new proposal for a directive completely upsets the existing system and threatens to severely restrict the member states' freedom to impose conditions based on the principles of the general interest, the protection of the quality of society and the environment and the guarantee of fundamental rights. i think that this is contrary to the principles of the treaty. it is incomprehensible that you should want to see this before you leave parliament, and i am glad that at least the committee on legal affairs has decided not to rush into this. my group is calling in the miller report for no final decisions to be taken, including on this new directive, until the discussion on the legal framework for services of general interest has been completed. i don't think this is unreasonable.
- mr president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation for the work of mr schmidt. the commission has not been able to come up with a modified report twice to gain sufficient support. i hope that tomorrow in the plenary the amendments by mr schmidt and mrs lulling will be supported. the postal market in the european union will be liberalised by 2009 at the latest. you can be for it or you can be against it. but now that the decision has been taken, it is important to ensure that there is no chaos, in which the citizen can no longer receive or send his mail. equal treatment of public and private postal service providers in the area of the vat base and the vat rate is therefore of great importance. in addition, equal opportunities within the internal market must be ensured in the interests of the free postal market. i shall therefore support the amendments tabled by mr schmidt and mr lulling.
president. - i too wish to express my condolences to spain. it is difficult to return to the routine of life after such an incident, but we must do so. i have listened to a number of colleagues here, madam president, and they believe that there is an improvement over the present situation. it is an extremely complex matter. i have also listened carefully to mr solbes, who sees improvement particularly for people who are disabled or partially disabled. i agree with mrs smet that there will be problems to be solved in more than one country. i do not know the situation in all countries, commissioner, but as far as the netherlands is concerned, i can tell you that the situation is worsening for people who are unable to participate in the labour market, who very probably never have been and never will be. in their case, there is no question of a premium-based benefit, but in my view this should be an exportable right. i would like to remind those who think that the debate should be reduced to rights based on or without a premium that there is also such a thing as social justice. i also do not think it is necessary to export housing costs to another country, because they are linked to the duration of the housing. but in this particular case, we are talking about people, including in the netherlands, who will probably not be able to enter the labour market for the rest of their lives. i would ask you to seriously consider whether there should be no different rules here. we are fed up with the free movement of persons, when at the moment there are 1300 people from the netherlands living elsewhere in europe and they will lose the benefits they are receiving now. i shall therefore look at what premiums or proposals i can support, in order to get what is possible, but, mr president, let me ask my colleagues and the commission to give this matter serious thought. i am very concerned, commissioner, about the future of regulation no 1408/71. can a committee be set up to examine in depth the obstacles, because there are major debates in europe as a result of enlargement on the exportability of social security? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am not saying that this is the egg of columbus, but i think that the exception requested by the netherlands affects the weakest and least protected. the benefit in question is exported to third countries, but under regulation no 1408/71 it is no longer exported within europe, and that is a great injustice.
i am glad, mr president, that whereas i was alone in the committee on employment and social affairs with my colleague mrs boogerd-quaak, at least some of my colleagues here have started to see the light. we are today amending the social security coordination regulation, and we do so almost every year, because almost every year something changes in the member states. we are also adjusting them to take account of the judgments of the court of justice. the result, mr president, is not necessarily a nice present for the people concerned by the regulation. what i and a number of colleagues have raised concerns about is that the netherlands has included in this list of non-exportable rights a benefit which is given to families with only one income, in order to prevent the family from falling below the social minimum, namely a benefit of eur 200 per month. the inclusion in this list shall immediately terminate the benefit. so the netherlands saves that money. mr president, that means not only that 2 danes, 193 belgians, 395 spaniards, 94 italians and 55 frenchmen will lose their benefits, but also that, in my opinion, inclusion in this list is not possible because it creates a discrimination between people within the european union who no longer receive benefits and people outside the european union who do. it is true, mr president, that i must campaign as a candidate in the european elections, but apart from that i do not think that a european representative can in any case defend the fact that a european is treated worse than people from third countries. i can give you details on that too: we export to morocco 1061 benefits and in europe we export a total of 1300 benefits. we export to bosnia, indonesia, the czech republic, the united states of america, israel and so on. it is this unequal treatment, mr president, which has led me to include in my amendment a number of elements which i heard from colleagues in the debate and to put them forward as a basis for a compromise. what is the point of this amendment, and i also agree with the comments made by anne van lancker: the inclusion of the benefit in question on the list by the netherlands may take effect from the moment when there is equal treatment between european and third countries. the second condition is that there are also agreements on the reduction and compensation of these benefits. mr president, if these two elements are added to the compromise, i think a solution is within reach. i have respect for the council, which has managed to mobilise people in this one by giving the impression that something terrible is going on here, when parliament has the right to approve the text by a simple qualified majority. the council must then be unanimous on this social issue, but if we find that something is wrong, we can show our teeth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope we can reach an agreement. mr president, frontier work is very important in my region. mobility is also a theme in the context of the lisbon objectives. if we do not manage mobility properly, we may also forget the lisbon objective.
i would like to de-dramatize the dutch problem that is before us. this isn't an election campaign. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i fully support the position of mrs gillig and mrs lambert that there should be a clear system in this coordination regulation and its annexes, and i am in favour of very restrictive treatment of the annexes, because the problem is in the tail. we have already said in relation to the lambert report that the annexes can be used to repeal what was deleted in the regulation, and this threatens to happen in a number of areas with the improvements we have made. the third point is that if a benefit is no longer exportable, equivalent benefits and protection must exist in other european countries. the dutch government, and to some extent the commission, can now be blamed for not having properly investigated whether this is the case. mrs van lancker has already indicated that there is no comparable system in belgium and we are of course not in a position to make such an assessment for the 15 member states, let alone the 25 member states after enlargement. that is clearly an omission in the report. it is also the point we must tackle most sharply. a solution can only be found through bilateral compensation schemes between member states. i am pleased that mrs gillig has included a recital in the text in an oral amendment. i hope that parliament will support this. the member states must then take action and the commission must monitor that proper work is being done.
i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, to the spanish people, to the spanish government and to the spanish colleagues, and i deeply regret this brutal attack on democracy. mr president, i was surprised by the statements made by the belgian prime minister, mr verhofstadt, last week. he suggested that families should be given financial incentives to care for their aging parents at home. the idea should be the subject of a national debate in belgium, said verhofstadt. i'm usually available for a national debate, but in this case, the question arises as to whether the debate is not necessary simply because of the embarrassment of aging. we try to respond to the problems of the elderly and health care with beautiful policy proposals and electoral rhetoric. but that does not hide the fact that we are shy about the matter. after all, we hope to grow old in good health and to avoid needing care for as long as possible, but we have no control over that. i remember that we discussed mr mantovani's report here last year, on 14 january to be precise. i emphasized at the time that the debate on elderly care and health care should not be limited to good intentions. it must be of value to those who work in the sector. the exchange of practices and treatment methods should lead to an improvement in care. in addition, it should be made clear that health and care of the elderly cannot be approached solely from the perspective of economic costs. the elderly and the sick are more than just a cost. i can therefore agree with mr lambert's amendment on the amendment of paragraph 23. the internal market is not designed to make financial profits from the needs of patients. equal access to care in all member states is desirable, but patient mobility for the sake of cost does not seem to me to be. i do not think that paragraph 37 should be deleted. i can say with satisfaction that the rules of the internal market do not only have a positive impact on health care. i shall return to the verhofstadt declarations. because it could be crazier. in my country, a television station recently broadcast a fictional documentary about the care of poor dutch elderly people in an african country. the care there is more efficient, because the wage costs for care are lower. many viewers only later realised that it was played by actors and even the minister was already preparing for questions from the house. but it was fiction. this does not, however, remove the impression that there is little or no room for voluntary care in relationships. both the beautiful policy proposals and the derisive satire try to make a point. that's a thought.
i would like to add my voice to the many compliments already paid to the rapporteur. it has produced an excellent report, rightly calling for greater european cooperation in health and elderly care. such cooperation should not be limited to public health, qualitative and preventive aspects, but should also cover cost-effective and efficient management of facilities and the strengthening of the financial capacity to cover health and ageing costs. the directorate-general for social affairs and employment should play an active role in this. i have concentrated on the financing and support of national health systems and tabled a number of amendments on this subject which are linked to the internal market, including one on paragraph 37, which the epp wants to delete, to my disappointment. the court of justice's rulings on the internal market already have an impact on national health systems. health care funding is no longer a purely national issue. many colleagues from other member states do not understand that i am making such an important point. they continue to insist that health care must be protected from market forces, that it is in the public interest and therefore has nothing to do with the rules of competition and free movement. i would like to say to them, and in particular to herman schmid, that this is no longer the case. we cannot ignore the fact that private commercial parties in the health market operate according to the logic of the free market. that is why we must provide a solid counterweight to market forces. in the netherlands, there is a debate on the revision of the health insurance system, with the intention of placing it entirely in the hands of private health insurers. i think that is a risky strategy as long as there is no framework for this. i have nothing against private insurance companies, mr karas can confirm that, but the government must be able to impose sufficient conditions. it should not be possible for sick people to be denied, for people with high health risks to have to pay a higher premium, for insurance to be more expensive for women because they can become pregnant, etc. the dutch government does not take into account the fact that the european agreements on the internal market could interfere with its plans. if insurance companies feel that they are being overly restricted by the government, they can go to the european courts and invoke the european rules. the weakest groups are the ones who suffer. the national governments then blame europe. i want to prevent that, and that is why we must ensure better coordination at european level. one last note: i welcome mr solbes' announcement that a progress report on the high-level reflection process will be forthcoming. i look forward to it with great interest.
mr president, it is generally assumed that all health care systems in the european union are based on the principles of solidarity, fairness and universality. these include ensuring that every person can receive appropriate, high-quality care when ill or in need of care, regardless of income, ability or age. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, drawn up in 2000 and to be incorporated into the european constitution, guarantees an elderly person a life of dignity and independence and the right of every person to access health care and medical treatment. the draft constitution also provides for a high level of social protection. so everyone can rest assured that everything is perfectly arranged on paper. however, in practice there are increasing complaints about unacceptably large distances between home and hospital due to the expansion of scale, waiting lists for admission to a hospital, a shortage of care for elderly people in need of care, a shortage of medical and nursing staff, a reduction in available medicines and the need to divert across the border. the lack of care leads some people to an early death and others to such a low quality of life that they desire death by voluntary euthanasia long before they enter the natural death stage. of course, there are all kinds of excuses for such mistreatment. people are living longer and longer on average. they have fewer children than in the past and those children are being consumed by the ever-increasing compulsion to work for men and women. help from neighbors and children is becoming less and less available. in such circumstances it is irresponsible to reduce taxes and premiums on the grounds that we need less. as this is happening, there is a growing public concern about the affordability of health care, elderly care and pensions in an ageing society. increasingly, too, there is no staff available for care work, for in times of economic growth, these people are drawn away for higher wages to the most profitable sectors of production at the time. when they lose their jobs as a result of an economic crisis, they do not have the appropriate training to cope with care tasks. the drain on the labour force from countries with lower living standards is exacerbating the problems there. in the applicant country romania, a large proportion of the population is now uninsured, i.e. dependent on the charity of doctors. the transfer of insurance and care to private companies, which claim to have lower costs and yet want to make a profit, further undermines accessibility, quality and equal treatment. the european union must act as a brake on this development rather than a catalyst. if we are to achieve all the good intentions that are written on paper, we need a collective approach on a larger scale than is possible within families through volunteer work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, an oral amendment will be tabled on this. it was already submitted to parliament's services yesterday and is also on the voting list.
we have adopted an amendment by the pse group which is outside the text. what mrs gillig is doing here cum suis is unacceptable. we tabled the amendment last night, we had reached a compromise between us and now mrs gillig is standing up!
mr president, we asked the parliament's services last night to consider amendment no 12 by the pse group, which calls for equal treatment, as an addition. we are not against equal treatment, but we are against it if it replaces the reduction of the administrative burden on business, because these are completely separate matters. it may be a trick to extract this reduction from the text. i would like to hear from mr miller whether he accepts this as a supplement. if that is not possible, i think this is a ploy to remove the reduction of the administrative burden on business from the text. perhaps the socialists don't want that in.
mr president, what we have just witnessed in the vote is an example of anti-social behaviour on the part of the pse group. on the basis of reciprocity, which is very important, we had made a number of agreements on the submission of oral amendments. when the socialist amendments, which are not very proposing, were adopted, the members of this group stood up. mr president, what i am against is people putting their minds to zero. the rapporteur, mrs gillig, has put her mind to the task and has approved matters which are absolutely negative for frontier workers with the greatest ease in the world, even though she is a socialist spokesman, and she has been followed in this by the socialist group as well. i am grateful for the support for this oral amendment which i had received from the liberal group and also from d66. mr president, that was all we could do. we'll have another chance. what is true of the socialists is also true of the greens. we have a chance at the regulation itself. this game is not over yet, but the antisocial, stupid and cowardly behaviour i wish to condemn in your presence. people have been duped by this that shouldn't have been duped.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) at the first reading on 15 december 2003, when i was rapporteur for this report, i concluded that there were major disadvantages to the privatisation of postal services in terms of quality, punctuality of services, prices to be paid by consumers and working conditions for staff. in addition, there are now added disadvantages, which mean that persons who post letters have to pay an additional fee. i was therefore pleased that a majority in this house shared my concern and rejected the report. unfortunately, the state-owned french postal service has jeopardized its previously good record by putting pressure on the french left. la poste considers that its interests are best served by welcoming the tax, which it can recover from the state. to my surprise, my colleague, philippe herzog, defended this position yesterday afternoon, and today the french members of the group of the european socialists have prevented the report from being rejected again. tomorrow my group will, despite our sympathy with the particular situation in a particular country, stick to the original rejection which i spoke for. the damage has been done, however. the european citizens are again being taxed in a way that is not proportionate to their income or wealth.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. although the decisions taken last year confirmed enlargement, the brok report lists 148 areas of concern, to which are added the points added by amendments, including my own. it is apparent from this text that some members are mainly concerned with the inadequate privatisations, the gradual removal of all obstacles to the completion of the internal market and what they consider to be a disproportionately high level of public expenditure. i strongly disagree with them. in fact, these countries have already yielded to many unjustified and unreasonable demands, which means that their difficulties can only increase in the future. the price they have had to pay for joining the eu will prevent them from meeting the expectations of their people, which will be a threat to democracy. other meps are more concerned about the desperate plight of millions of roma, the marginalisation of the russian minority in the baltic countries, the continued discrimination against homosexuals, the introduction of electoral rules that exclude minor political movements and the serious disregard for environmental concerns. i support this criticism and will continue to do so even after these countries have joined.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the new rules should be applied to all the member states, and that the new rules should be applied to all the member states. yesterday i heard the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats use the argument that too few companies have been privatised in romania in recent years. there were at least as many reasons for serious criticism of romania under the country's former right-wing government as under the present one, which describes itself as left-wing. children beg and sniff glue, the poor have no right to medical treatment, public buildings and facilities are decaying, democracy is flawed, and corruption and the total collapse of public services are as much a part of the country today as they were then. i even recently received a complaint from a romanian party, the socialist workers' party, which now has to change its name to socialist alliance in order to remain legal, which started out with 4.6% of the vote in the 1990s elections but later in the official results was awarded 3.9% and consequently fell below the 4% threshold for membership of parliament. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the romanian authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the acquis is fully implemented. this could be a valid reason for not speeding up its accession in relation to turkey, which also has major problems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to compete in the world market for the information it needs. if this is to be possible, the european economy must be given the appropriate conditions. these conditions are provided by the amendment to paragraph 33 adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which stresses the need for deregulation and reduction of administrative burdens on businesses as well as the need to set up an independent advisory body to examine the applicability and impact of eu legislation. eu legislation is becoming increasingly detailed and at times intrusive and disruptive. this creates a lot of discontent in business and the public, which undermines support for the eu and has proved to be one of the reasons for the low turnout in the european parliament elections. the distortion of competition resulting from the amount of administrative burdens imposed on european companies means that economic regions such as the united states and china pose an economic threat to our jobs and prosperity. the vvd delegation, as part of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, voted against amendment no 12 by the group of the party of european socialists, not because the liberals are in any way opposed to the principle of equality, but rather because amendment no 12 involved a change in the wording of paragraph 33, which we wanted to retain.
mr president, the deep structural crisis in haiti calls for a long-term international commitment. otherwise, there is a risk of further political and socioeconomic decline, with all the dissuasive consequences for the population of these countries. the seriousness of the situation in haiti has not changed, as i recently read in confidential domestic reports. the rehabilitation of the haitian national police is a prerequisite for the restoration of public order. the reliable core of this force deserves the full support of the temporary international force. the only way to achieve the mass disarmament of all the irregular armed groups is to do so. so far, the international military force has been too passive. free play for criminals and armed gangs is the result. this will continue to cause bloodshed in haiti, warn informants on the ground. that is not possible, commissioner. i strongly advocate international action in haiti to stabilize the situation. what else will happen to the provision of humanitarian emergency aid? meanwhile, the remaining foreign aid workers are under tremendous workload to alleviate the distress. i quote one of them: "yet i remain personally convinced of the value of our work here, or i would have left the country long ago as requested by my worried family. i think that in these difficult moments, more than ever, it is necessary not to leave the haitian people alone in their struggle for autonomy and democracy and to support them without directing or forcing them". the european union has a duty to help haiti, and to help it to do so. what about the tireless efforts of courageous haitian relief workers? they don't want to leave, and they can't leave anyway. i therefore ask you, commission, in anticipation of a new government in haiti, to do everything possible to resume the current activities as soon as possible. we must not lose time again.
president, under the slogan "freedom of speech", an estimated 5,000 to 7,000 ukrainian citizens demonstrated in the country's capital kiev the day before yesterday. the demonstration is based on the increasingly repressive media policy of president kuchma's regime. it is not without reason that the neue zürcher zeitung headlined last saturday that the opposition media in ukraine should fear for their survival. the situation is over. exactly one week ago, nikola tomenko, chairman of the ukrainian parliamentary committee on freedom of the media - note the name - gave a devastating prop lecture in the verkhovna rada, the parliament. in this year of presidential elections, kuchma is trying to suppress dissenting opinions by all available means. the death of yuri chechik, the director of the private radio station, last wednesday is currently very controversial in this regard. chetchik was killed in a traffic accident. he was on his way from his home town of poltava to kiev for a meeting with radio svoboda, the ukrainian branch of radio liberty. this circumstance alone raises suspicion about chech's unexpected changes. only a few hours after his death, ukrainian security forces stormed the kiev-based radio continent station and confiscated all broadcasting equipment. this station had apparently aroused the displeasure of the ukrainian authorities by taking over programs from radio liberty. meanwhile, the director of radio continent has left the country, purely out of self-preservation, as he says. the same radio continent also employed journalist georgi gongadze, who was first reported missing in 2000 and then found beheaded. the obvious campaign against independent media being waged today by president kuchma and his associates contradicts the official goal of kiev to promote democracy in the country and seek closer ties with europe. mr president, in the new york times earlier this week, former us secretary of state madeleine allbright called for transatlantic action to defend political and press freedom in ukraine. i hope that washington and brussels are really joining forces to protect and extend the frontiers of freedom, as allbright says.
president. - in europe, venezuela was formerly known only as a supplier of crude oil and iron ore and as a base for european adventurers. should that country go back to the way it was because an unyielding president ignores the democratic will of the people? i would like to share with this parliament my contrary experience in that country. half a century ago, i was one of the children in the venezuelan capital of caracas who did not go to school but wandered through sewers and among mountain-side neighborhoods with orange-box houses and corrugated iron roofs. a small elite owned big cars, luxury homes and golf courses, but on the streets, next to the luxury office towers and shops, i saw sick beggars with no legs. the hospital where my father died was a mess. the limited public transport was run by several companies, each with its own coloured buses but no good connections. in other parts of the country, like the second city of marakaibo, i saw one of the most excluded, poor indian populations. the road from the capital to the coast was full of crosses of people who had fallen into the depths, and on other roads dust storms would form as you drove over them. the dictatorial president had his police force, recruited from italian emigrants, hang opponents from lampposts. and those experiences gave me all the hope and expectation that people would not accept this outrageous combination of dictatorship with extreme wealth, extreme poverty and extreme neglect forever. forty years later, the people's despondency was over and they finally had hope for security, for building and for solidarity. they voted democratically by a large majority for a different parliament, a new constitution and a very different kind of president. the fact that president chávez has relied too much on the military and has not handled the aid to victims of the great natural disaster does not justify the coup in which he was kidnapped and temporarily replaced by the president of the employers' organization. nor do his shortcomings justify the falsification of huge numbers of signatures in order to obtain sufficient support for a referendum, so that he can be suspended again. while america recognizes the current venezuelan government as legal, the two largest groups in the european parliament are guided by their contacts with former governing parties that were voted out by the venezuelan electorate. it certainly can and should be better in venezuela. but a return to the past will not help. if the european union supports the new venezuela, that is also the best way to deter the government and political opposition from provocations and violence. unjustified nostalgia, on the other hand, only leads to misfortune. (applause from the left)
president. - mr president, i have just received a request from the commissioner for information. this is primarily due to the transparency directive and the criticism of the requirement for quarterly reports. with the compromise that's been reached, i can get out of here. what i regret is that there are no more substantive requirements for reporting. i had made three suggestions on this. the first was to provide information on management salaries and bonuses in annual reports. the commission has now announced that it will come forward with a separate proposal on this, so that was a successful action. the second was on the reporting of payments to public authorities by extractive industries in particular. this was a wish of ngos - like the publish-what-you-pay campaign - and also of the benevolent part of those companies themselves. these companies are keen to submit to an obligation and thereby avoid unfair competition from competitors who do not yet voluntarily report such payments or bribes. a recommendation on this subject is now included in a recital to the directive. that's a half-success worth following up on. the third point was to report in a verifiable and transparent way what a company says it does about corporate social responsibility. unfortunately, this point has not yet been included in the text, but i would like to draw attention to it again. it is not a question of obliging companies to be socially responsible. however, when a company is praised for all kinds of good things, this must be shown in a transparent and clear way in a controlled report, as in the case of financial trading and trading. i am quite satisfied with the isd directive. from the outset i have tried to bridge the gap between the opposing opinions and interests, using my own touchstone. in house matching by large banks, which breaks the monopoly of the stock exchange, is from my point of view a positive development and can, under the conditions we are now creating in the compromise, provide additional opportunities for investors and for entrepreneurs who need capital. the compromise has not become a purely english city directive, nor a stock exchange directive which, by theoretically abolishing the merger rule, would nevertheless lead to a de facto monopoly for the stock exchange. it is a middle way that has led to the adoption of the proposals i made in the first reading. i think that there are additional things that have been included from the council on the subject of supervision, which i also welcome. so this directive has been given the green light in that respect too.
the rapporteur. president. - mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with the choice of whether we find the so-called light agreement which the european commission and the council intend to conclude with the american authorities to be adequate. i would remind you that in march last year parliament expressed its view that the present situation of unlimited data transfer to the united states should be brought to an end. parliament repeated this last october, asking the european commission to specify what data could be transmitted legally and without risk. parliament also called for the immediate replacement of the current pull system by a push system and for negotiations on an international agreement which would offer european citizens real guarantees and the same legal protection as american citizens. that's the key, and that's the point. what is now on the table is a so-called light agreement, an agreement in which the european parliament is basically excluded. we are not asked for our consent, we can only give an opinion. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that a light agreement was deliberately chosen, whereas we had asked for a heavy agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. now we're partially out of the game. the article 29 committee, the group of experts, has said that this agreement is not adequate. i, as rapporteur, propose that parliament follow the opinion of the article 29 committee. what is the case? article 1 of the agreement itself says that the existing situation of unlimited data transfer to the united states can continue as long as a push system is not developed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have been informed of the time it might take to get a push system and i have also put that in my resolution. we could have a push system in three months. in fact, there could have been a push system by now, because in december we were told that such a system was coming. so what we are doing now is legitimizing what we have twice labeled as illegitimate. in the meantime, we are being pressed hard by both the united states and the european commission to approve the agreement. this is despite the fact that it is not clear what the agreement is for. on the one hand it is said that it is used to combat terrorism, on the other hand it is also used to combat serious crime. however, these are not defined. i find the latter extremely difficult. parliament has called for an agreement which clearly defines the role of airlines, how they are protected and what guarantees passengers have that they can correct their data. we have also asked for an agreement to regulate the liability of airlines and public authorities in the event of transcription or coding errors. in the meantime we have gained some experience with the united states. mr sörensen of my group, after he had flown to the united states, asked to see his data and to correct them if necessary. after two months he got a reply, and the answer was that he could not see his data, because that would mean that the strategy of the united states would become clear. if we look at the legislation in the united states, we have to say that the privacy act should provide some protection. i have asked the united states to tell me exactly what this protection would consist of and i have not received a reply to date. another thing that comes into play is the patriot act. this law allows for the prosecution of virtually any citizen suspected of terrorism. he has no access to the courts. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the judicial system in the united states is not sufficiently regulated. the protection of our citizens in the united states is not adequately regulated. there is no equality between european and american citizens. so this is a case in which we would be completely lacking if we approved it. it is not a question - as has been suggested - of our not being prepared to fight terrorists. on the contrary, we have already asked the commission three times to come up with a proposal that could also be valid in europe. it is not about bad relations with the united states. that is completely out of the question and, in my view, should not be part of the debate at all. the point is that we must protect our citizens and they must expect that from us, just as the citizens of the united states must expect that from their government.
first of all, mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs boogerd-quaak on her excellent and clear political analysis and her perseverance. we're going to need that kind of perseverance. mr president, i repeat once again that the fight against terrorism is necessary, but not all means are justified. the agreement we are discussing today is one of those instruments which goes beyond the objective of combating terrorism. the commission has concluded in its adequacy finding that the united states provides an adequate level of protection for the passenger data transferred. i am not so sure about that, however. the current agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees for the citizens of the european union. there are no adequate legal remedies for citizens who get into trouble, as has been shown by the examples given by a number of colleagues. in addition, it is explicitly stated that the data may also be used for other purposes, such as domestic crime prevention in the united states. it is not clear to which third party in the united states the data is being transmitted. control of this is very difficult. the article 29 working party has unanimously decided that this agreement is contrary to european law. the council also cautiously suggested in february that the us measures might conflict with european national legislation and this doubt was not removed, as mr watson has already pointed out in connection with the recent european council - on the contrary. it therefore appears that the commission is the only body which still maintains its conclusion on the appropriate level of protection. perhaps it is time for the commission to admit its mistake and to admit that it has exceeded its powers. the current proposal is not sufficient and therefore the commission must come up with a new proposal which includes adequate protection mechanisms for european citizens. under the guise of fighting terrorism, european legislation has been violated for almost a year now. if the commission is so convinced that this agreement is in conformity with european law and not contrary to the treaty, i really do not understand why it is not prepared to apply the procedure of article 300 of the ec treaty and to have the court of justice examine this. i am therefore glad that this possibility is still maintained in the resolution before us. the battle is far from over.
i would like to thank you all very much for your comments, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, but i would like to add something to them. i am a little confused by what mr bolkestein has said. he said: "we're still negotiating and then we'll determine if what we're doing is adequate". however, i believe there was an adequacy finding which you said: "it's all right". it 's two to one . it's okay or it's not okay. i would say to mr pirker that according to the dutch data protection board there are 1800 law enforcement agencies in the united states that can request data. there is still a lot of uncertainty and if even the european commission is uncertain, why would parliament give its consent at this time? i am absolutely of the opinion that if this continues, we should ask the court of justice of the european communities for an opinion, an opinion on whether this agreement is adequate and whether a light agreement can be concluded which interferes so far with the data of the citizens of the european union. this is the only way open to us and we must take it, because a light agreement has been reached. i would ask you, commissioner, to withdraw this agreement and to come up with a better one.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the 2002 annual report shows a sharp increase in the number of fraud cases reported. this is not a good thing in itself, but this increase also means that more attention is being paid to combating fraud and irregularities. more attention is good, but then more must be done in practice, both in terms of repression and prevention. the commission is lagging behind in improving direct management. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. as long as managers want to control their controllers, a transparent climate in which people take responsibility and discharge cannot be created. the amendments tabled to delete paragraphs 1 and 2 from the resolution are a matter of concern to our group. is this parliament created to protect the commission? even when she makes mistakes or fails to do so? such an uncritical attitude rightly arouses distrust among the electorate, because this parliament has a primary task of control and must carry it out with the utmost seriousness by means of a consistent fight against irregularities and fraud, including in its own house. this is a first step towards increasing the structurally low turnout in the european elections. finally, the failure to recover amounts paid in excess or wrongly. is there a consistent record of this in the accounting system? why is the commission only recovering a small part? how do you explain that to the citizens of the member states? is it in their interest that you recover as little as possible?
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. mr president, as the rapporteur has said, this directive puts an end to a persistent form of sex discrimination, namely the so-called statistical discrimination. in statistical discrimination, the average differences observed at a given time between groups, in this case groups of men and groups of women, are absolutized into permanent assessment criteria for individuals. unfortunately, this statistical discrimination in the private insurance sector is still very common in a number of countries. the essence of insurance, however, is risk sharing. to rely on people for a characteristic that they cannot influence themselves is to be considered discrimination. the apparent logic of the insurance industry's gender mainstreaming is a relic of bygone days - falling back on the easy way. we must fight it on principle. the opponents are engaged in rearguard combat. i am therefore pleased that the report by mrs prets has been adopted by such a large majority in the committee on women's rights, and i hope that this will also be the case in the plenary. but it is waiting for the next step, which will put an end to the so-called hierarchy of equality. european anti-discrimination legislation is a patchwork of laws which itself discriminate between the different grounds of discrimination. different groups are thus afforded different degrees of protection. why is racial discrimination in education and social services prohibited by eu law, but sex discrimination in these areas not addressed? and why is there no provision in this area and in that of social security for discrimination on grounds of age, disability and social orientation? we look forward with great anticipation to the european commission's promised green paper on the future of anti-discrimination legislation as a whole, and then to new reparation legislation. the european union, which claims to be a community of values, cannot accept a hierarchy of equality.
the proposal concerns equal treatment for women and men in the access to and supply of services, and in particular the actuarial problems in insurance services. it is therefore not logical that the committee on women's rights should have been given this report. this committee has abolished the principle of equal treatment and replaced it with equality between men and women, but that is not the point here. this amendment creates a lack of coherence in the text. the amendment now prohibits sex discrimination, less favourable treatment, including on the grounds of paternity. equal treatment should also be ensured in the insurance sector. life expectancy by sex alone should therefore no longer be a factor in the calculation of insurance premiums. life expectancy risk calculation is based on outdated data from a different male and female role model. the premiums must therefore be based on solidarity between men and women. there is more variation within the group of men or women than between men and women. although there is a statistically significant difference between men and women, it can be explained by the past. it is not likely that this statistically significant difference will persist in the future, due to the decreasing differences in lifestyle and occupation.
the committee on development and cooperation has adopted a report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. mr president, the two commission proposals concern agreements on political dialogue and cooperation and not so much an association agreement. that is why we do not include in these proposals an integrated strategy for economic and social development. this region certainly deserves it. firstly, a partnership agreement on cooperation with the andean countries can help to ease the explosive political and social situation in the region, for example in colombia. over the past 15 years, more than two million people have been displaced from their homes and there is a huge humanitarian need. it is necessary to work harder to find a political solution to the armed conflicts and to restore peace and social justice. the social situation in the andean countries deserves more attention. many of their inhabitants still live in extreme poverty. two extremes: in colombia, the supposedly richest country, a quarter of the population must survive on less than two dollars a day. in ecuador, the poorest country in the region, the figure is even above 50 percent. in the countries of central america, on the average, a third of the population must survive on less than two dollars a day. in nicaragua, just four years ago, the poorest 10 percent of nicaraguans had less than 1 percent of total consumption, while the richest 10 percent of the country's inhabitants held more than half of total consumption. malnutrition has been a major problem in these countries for years and has even increased in guatemala. the commission's political dialogue, mr president, continues to focus on governments and the public sector. this is necessary, but it is very important to involve the parliaments and civil society in the region in the dialogue. this is a better service to human rights, democracy and transparency than if we focused solely on the diplomatic route. the union must therefore make it a priority not only to broaden the political dialogue with a number of partners but also to complement it by integrating the social and economic strategy.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for us to start our contribution with a kind word about the good cooperation with the rapporteur. mr schnellhardt, i appreciate your work and your efforts, but to be honest, i am a little disappointed in your way of working. it is not very elegant to negotiate with the council on your own and to pay attention only to your own amendments. i personally think that it is not honourable for parliament to agree a compromise with the council and at the same time want to accept the original amendments. that's not a credible way to do it. ladies and gentlemen, today i would like to look back on five years of food safety and almost three years of food hygiene. in the general food law we have jointly decided that the producers of food are primarily responsible for the safety of their products and that this is controlled by the public authorities. we are now about to turn back the clock. i do not agree with this position, but i am not speaking for my group on this point. how did it get to this point? i think we should start by putting our hands in our own bosom. the food hygiene dossier is a complex whole with hundreds of amendments on all kinds of details. as a result, only a few spokesmen are involved in this matter and it is very easy for outsiders to spread misinformation. what's this all about? the central question is who controls the food producers. in the light of the general food law, the answer to this question seems simple. the producer ensures that his products are in order and the government supervises the final control. the commission, in accordance with the principle it has adopted, is seeking to give meat producers, particularly pig and calf farms, the opportunity, under public supervision, to assume their responsibility and carry out the controls themselves. some in the meat sector want to take on this responsibility and end abuses themselves. there's a lot of resistance to the idea of the butcher chewing his own meat. and rightly so, because the government must monitor and has a clear role in control. it is good, however, to give the butcher more responsibility. a majority of our group rejects the idea that the meat sector itself bears responsibility. they claimed that the staff of the meat establishments were not able or in a position to monitor the quality. personally, i don't think so. i think we need to get rid of authoritarian companies that do not tolerate criticism of the quality of their products from their employees. i think that the european parliament should not regard the workers in the meat sector as frightened, immature and ignorant creatures. as long as the government is in control, companies can be held accountable. i therefore call on everyone to support the compromise we have reached with the council and to prevent us from adopting the amendments of the committee on the environment, because that is not the right way of doing things.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today is a good opportunity to complete the whole food legislation package, from safety assessment to the final step, control. there are a large number of directives which can be withdrawn with what we are agreeing today. we are going to put an end to the whole question of the controllability of food production, the whole chain approach, or the stable-to-table principle. mr president, there are some problems with the compromise package which was put forward by the council and the commission and which parliament agreed to. however, at the last minute, some sand is thrown in the wheelhouse, because there seems to be some misunderstanding. i'll say the same thing to david bowe. what's the matter? it is a question of defending the compromise proposed by the council and it is a question of allowing some extra responsibility in the company where the meat is produced, of ensuring that what is happening to the meat is properly controlled and that we then say whether we approve or disapprove of the meat, under the final responsibility of the official veterinarian and the government which appointed the veterinarian. in the netherlands this system has been in operation for some years to everyone's satisfaction. mr bowe has just said that there was a problem with red meat in scotland a few years ago, whereas they have a different system. what we have to do is to ensure that responsibility is placed where it can be absolutely borne. this means that flexibility in the system is necessary and that as much bureaucracy as possible should be eliminated, but that it should be ensured that the consumer can rely on the safety of the food he is receiving. i would therefore urge you, mr president, to support the council's compromise.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank the commissioner for his first contribution. however, before i comment on the new animal transport directive, i would like to reflect for a moment on an event in my own country, namely the passing of our queen mother, princess juliana. during her reign she has always shown a particular interest in the agricultural sector in my country and also in livestock farming. to her, every human and every animal mattered. i commemorate her today at the start of this debate with gratitude and my thoughts are with her family and all those who will miss her. the revision of directives 64/432/eec and 93/119/ec on the transport of animals has been a long time coming. i appreciate the contribution of commissioner byrne, because after our debate on the 2001 resolution he did take up the glove. in addition to animal welfare, the sme crisis and the outbreaks of swine fever were the main reasons for me, as rapporteur, to make a thorough review of the legislation. i must conclude, however, that the commission's proposal is not a real choice. given the proposed time limits of nine hours transport and twelve hours rest, with unlimited repetition, and the very large increase in area per animal, it is safe to say that transport beyond nine hours would become unaffordable. however, as rapporteur, i am somewhat dissatisfied with this approach, because it does not do justice to the already difficult income situation in livestock farming and because it does not sufficiently reflect the reduction of the risks of animal diseases and the regularisation of slaughter. in addition, an excess of area per animal creates an unnecessary risk of injury during transport. i have therefore chosen the following line. firstly, transport up to 100 km should not be covered by the directive, to avoid making what is known as farmer transport for slaughter and use unnecessarily expensive. moreover, these are mainly regional livestock systems and there is rarely or never a problem of animal welfare in these transports. secondly, no major adjustments to the area requirements for slaughter. the limitation of transport of slaughter animals to nine hours or five hundred kilometres, and that covers 97 per cent of the transport of slaughter animals, is already in force. however, transitional periods should be provided for regions with few slaughterhouses or special market problems. i would also like to call for the establishment of slaughterhouses in regions where animals are kept to be promoted in a targeted manner. why is milk and sugar generally processed in the region where they are produced and not slaughtered? thirdly, i propose that for livestock and traditional systems for fattening animals a transport limit of 30 hours be introduced, including eight hours rest, but without unloading at stopping places. i also advocate a separate system for breeding and sport horses, with strict application of resting times and feeding rules. in general, however, transport conditions for this group are already excellent. fourthly, more and better targeted controls on international transport. this is the achilles' heel of current practice in the european union. fifthly, linking the rest and driving times in the existing eu directives for the transport sector to the new legislation. the gps system should also be introduced for international transport, so as to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy and to make controls much more effective. the fact that this last point in particular is not an unnecessary luxury has been shown, for example, by unannounced road checks in austria, in which more than 50% of the transport operators of animals were found to be in breach. the export of 221,000 live cattle a year to lebanon also raises questions. for every two families in lebanon, a whole cow on an annual basis! i believe that there is every reason to adapt the rules, particularly as regards the transport of animals for slaughter. i therefore ask members to vote in favour of amendments nos 1 to 97, 109, 110, 111, 112 and 115. that is the best balance between animal welfare and an economically acceptable position for livestock farming. if the council adopts this proposal, it will not drive livestock farming out of the market in europe and will structurally improve animal welfare. i would ask the commission and the council to adopt a provisional position at this stage. in conclusion, i would like to thank the various groups for the excellent cooperation they have shown in the preparation and examination of this report.
mr president, every day there are more and more long, brutal animal transports on our continent. dutch pigs are taken to spain and italy in 30 to 40 hours, sheep go from ireland to greece and even to the middle east. transports of 90 hours or more are common. that is beastly. horses from eastern europe are being transported to italy and greece. that should be stopped, but the european commission says it is not and unfortunately mr maat's report does not put an end to this kind of long, beastly transport. more than one million dutch pigs cross the alps and the pyrenees to italy and spain to be fattened. my party, the green left, wants to put an end to that. mr maat, however, has signed the written declaration with 333 colleagues to put an end to all animal transport which takes more than eight hours. unfortunately, he's coming back to that now. unfortunately, typically christian-democratic, economic interests are put before animal welfare. my party is the exact opposite and many dutch and european people agree with us. the debate in the council, it must be said, is even worse. there's not even any ending being made. we must stand our ground, send a clear signal and not give in now, otherwise the council will make an even bigger mess of things. i'm sorry to hear that.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, every year millions of animals are dragged across europe, often in appalling conditions. this has to stop. the european commission has come up with a plan that will significantly improve the transport of animals. the committee on transport has in its opinion laid down strict conditions for the transport of animals by road. welfare must be increased, control must be strengthened and enforced, and staff training must be improved. the committee on the environment has delivered an opinion on the same subject, but unfortunately the committee on agriculture has not adopted all the recommendations. i do not think that the commission has any right to make such a statement. the rapporteur deserves all the credit for this, but there are still a number of important points which i would ask you to improve. transport must be of high quality, ensuring the best possible welfare of the animals and minimising stress during transport. i think we are doing that with this report, but driving times must also be limited. it is not possible to explain why the transport of animals for slaughter is restricted and that of animals for fattening is not. we must draw a line and restrict transport for both categories. the dragging of animals must come to an end. we as a parliament have said this for years and we have, by a large majority, underlined it in a written statement in 2003. we now have the opportunity to put our demands into law. let's take this opportunity with both hands. i therefore ask you to support the amendments which limit the driving times, define the start and end of the journey, make the presence of a veterinarian compulsory and give animals sufficient space in lorries. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the rapporteur. mr president, i do not agree with mr evans's argument. we have already voted on two other reports this morning - four in fact - which were also discussed this morning. the debate on this subject is closed. however, there was a chance that we would have to vote on my report tomorrow, wednesday, if the debate had not been concluded. the debate is now closed, all the voting lists were available last night and there is no problem with the order of amendments either, because, in view of the contributions of the various groups, i cannot imagine that the voting list will be any different. i therefore see no formal or other argument for postponing the vote. (applause from the left)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) animals raised for human consumption have become victims of cheap long-distance trucking. injured, hungry and thirsty animals are transported from one country to another before they are reared or slaughtered. for years, it was hardly possible to discuss these completely unacceptable conditions in the european parliament, despite the petitions received. it is a step in the right direction that in the meantime approval has been obtained for a scheme which includes requirements for the means of transport, the duration of transport and the treatment of animals. tens of thousands of dutch people have expressed support for a standard of transport of a maximum of eight hours or 500 km. many in north-west europe, including myself, feel that this standard is not broad enough. this is opposed by associations of economic operators concerned, who consider that such a standard involves too much work and too many costs. it is not only the right wing that takes this view, but also the left wing in southern europe, where public opinion in some countries is not yet ready to give priority to improving animal welfare. there is still a long way to go before animal welfare organizations can convince the public and politicians in those countries. my party, the socialist party of the netherlands, believes that economic gain should be subordinated to more important matters, such as the decent treatment of animals. i support the amendments which provide the most extensive protection, even if they do not, unfortunately, have a majority today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we believe that transport time is not the only factor determining the quality of animal transport. the quality of transport conditions is crucial. longer transport times must be allowed for the transport of animals for slaughter if the quality of the transport allows it. certified transport undertakings should be able to do so. this view is partly reflected in amendments nos 64 and 81.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. part of the means for solidarity with the poorest areas within the present union and in the future enlarged union could be found by effectively ending the continuing fraud. the commission's annual report for 2002 reports irregularities and fraud amounting to eur 2.12 billion. of this amount, only eur 80,6 million could be recovered. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) closed 652 investigations in 2002, with a total loss of €937 million. the eurostat case has been left out of these investigations, and the commission has not drawn the lesson that responsibility for budget and accounting on the one hand and financial control and the fight against fraud on the other should not be placed with the same commissioner. eur 52 million was granted to support a large-scale export of live cattle to lebanon. it is likely that corruption is involved. olaf accuses journalists of paying for access to classified information, but the accusations are not convincing. external consultancy firms with former officials involved received eur 115 million. the 2004 elections will thus once again be about the fight against the european union of fraud.
president, commissioner, anyone who does not recognize that the state of israel has a duty to protect its citizens from terrorism is losing credibility. since the palestinian leadership launched the second intifada two and a half years ago to achieve its goals by force, on the israeli side almost a thousand men, women and children have been murdered by poisoned ghosts with scrap bombs around their waists. where is the european-wide outrage at the palestinian leaders who are putting bombs around children and want to blow them freeze to death when they are held by soldiers? the greatest obstacle to peace in the middle east is the palestinians' unwillingness to recognize the state of israel. otherwise, arafat's refusal at camp david is inexplicable. the state of israel occupies only 0.6 percent of the arab territory. the arab nations have long thought they could drive the jews into the sea, using the palestinian refugees as a means of putting international pressure on israel. the arab countries have never allowed their palestinian brothers a decent existence. the un has also artificially maintained the palestinian refugee status for 50 years. king abdullah's first reaction to a possible israeli withdrawal from gaza was to express his fear that palestinians would come to jordan to look for work. mr president, peace is inseparable from justice, and that is where the problem lies. europe has put democracy on a pedestal in its own part of the world, but it ignores democracy in israel, in a region that is nothing but dictatorships - enlightened or not.
mr president, the negative spiral of violence in the middle east seems to be unreversible and has reached a new low with the cold-blooded murder last week of the hate-mongering hamas leader yassin, ordered by israeli prime minister sharon. i call on the palestinians not to retaliate with violence for this illegal act by sharon. now is the time to break the spiral and choose with dignity for nonviolent resistance. i join the call by a group of palestinian academics not to commit any more suicide bombings. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the occupied territories, and has called for the immediate release of all palestinians. i therefore call for the eu's association agreement with israel to be suspended in accordance with article 2, the human rights clause, until the israeli government withdraws its call for attacks which are contrary to the international legal order. the sharon government thus poses a threat to the security and the rule of law in israel. the israeli-palestinian situation is a major disturbing factor in the whole region. what the middle east needs is a broad democratic initiative for dialogue and cooperation between all the countries in the middle east. europe has the right instruments for this. we must strategically use the partnerships between the eu and the mediterranean countries in the context of the barcelona process, in which we are advocating political and economic reforms as well as social reforms, to find a solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. i am convinced that there is a great political need for this among the citizens of both israel and palestine. finally, i call on the eu member states to submit a proposal to the un security council for a un intervention force on the 1967 borders to protect israeli and palestinian citizens from terrorist attacks. president, working towards peace in the middle east is a huge contribution to the fight against terrorism.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, let us not play games. anyone who has followed the situation in kosovo over the last year knew this could happen. the same picture is emerging over and over again from the huge pile of reports and media reports. the lack of prospects, the growing hopelessness, the growing socioeconomic problems and the unmik, which is increasingly seen as less liberator and more occupier. as part of the problem, not as part of the solution. i also find it far too easy to just point to the extremists. of course, they are behind the sickening attacks, which i too regard as attacks on serbs, their villages and their churches, but the feelings of disappointment and mistrust, as well as aggression, are alive among large sections of the population. i therefore repeat the call made in parliament's previous report on this region. this call to the commission and the council was: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of the environment. i must admit that i myself am a supporter of the proposals of the so-called independent kosovo commission of over two years ago, which advocated conditional independence, independence under certain conditions. in that respect, the kosovars who are behind these attacks have done a very bad service to their people. if the kosovars themselves are not able to control their own extremists, there is no prospect of fulfilling the most important condition for independence, which is respect for minorities. i am sorry to say this, mr roche, but what you are saying is more of the same and the policies you advocate have led to these problems. as far as i'm concerned, status quo, doing more of the same, is no longer an option at this point. but the message from this parliament to the kosovars and the kosovo authorities must also be clear: don't let your people be taken hostage by a bunch of criminal troublemakers. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. kosovo will be tolerant or kosovo will not be.
i think everyone is quite shocked by the images of the recent violence in kosovo that we have seen and which bring back memories of the conditions we experienced in the 1990s. what was positive in itself was the swift response of the international community, particularly the european union, but also of several eu member states, who quickly reinforced the troop force on the ground and managed to halt a further escalation of violence. many here have already said that we must now continue to call on the people in charge in kosovo itself, but also on the people in serbia and perhaps also in albania, to work together towards a workable solution. i agree with the comments of colleagues who have pointed out the static situation that has arisen in kosovo. it leaves many people in a state of despair and also gives way to those who are malicious and who have caused the recent problems. i think that the socioeconomic situation in particular deserves attention. the high unemployment in the country places a heavy burden on finding a solution to the problems. i am convinced that the european union must continue to work towards a society in which the two ethnic groups can work together and live together, and i also believe that the ethnic groups can be held accountable. the question of the final status of kosovo can only be answered if we have some kind of internal stability in which we can have confidence and if we are convinced that the two peoples can live together peacefully. i fear that the international community, that is to say, we ourselves, will have to remain on the ground until then and will also have to take regular action in the same way as we have done in recent weeks. i fully agree with commissioner patten that this is a european risk which requires a european response. we cannot afford a black hole in that part of europe and that is why it is so important that we have reacted as we have reacted. but we must also look at what might need to be a tougher line in the future to ensure that the static situation i mentioned earlier is broken.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. president, mrs thors, thank you very much for your work. i think it would be a very good idea to conclude this in a first reading agreement. it's a fairly technical file, but i think we'll get a long way. the internal market makes it necessary to harmonise the rules governing the food sector and packaging. new developments require new standards. active and intelligent materials and objects are such new developments. active materials interact with food to maintain or improve the condition of food during storage and to extend its shelf life. smart materials are designed to provide information on the state of food. one possible development is a packaging material that changes colour when the milk packed in it becomes acidic or the food packed in it begins to spoil. these are all interesting developments and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy supports the commission's proposals wholeheartedly, but has a number of comments in view of these developments. first, active and intelligent materials must not be used to mislead the consumer. the possibilities are there, but we want to make it very clear that this is not the intention. secondly, traceability is necessary, but it does not have to go back to the tree from which a paper bag is made, as far as our committee is concerned. a good system is enough. thirdly, the impact on trading partners must not be disproportionate and no unnecessary barriers to trade must be imposed, particularly on developing countries. i understand that some solutions have been provided for this. the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy calls for the removal of barriers to the use of recycled materials. it is not possible to encourage recycling on the one hand and not allow recycled material on the other. of course, food safety is the criterion. in short, our committee wants modern technologies to be used for the benefit of consumers and the environment.
president, mr goodwill, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the past five years parliament has been working intensively on the climate problem. fortunately, our work is becoming more concrete, and we are now taking real action. on behalf of my group i can say that we are generally satisfied with the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment. i would therefore like to thank mr goodwill very warmly for his work. what we have before us is a balanced outcome. in the context of the fight against climate change, the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases should be reduced as much as possible. we therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's efforts to tackle the main sources of emissions. these are: refrigeration and air conditioning systems, mobile air conditioning systems and foam products. two things deserve some attention. after much discussion my group wants to make the use of gases in firefighting equipment a little more flexible. this is only a very small emission, and it is only released in the event of fire. in our view, consumer safety is of paramount importance. we want to eliminate fluorinated greenhouse gases, but only in cases where it is really possible and where there are alternatives. a large proportion of the fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions is due to the use of air conditioning in cars. we have rightly paid a great deal of attention to this and i should like to thank mr goodwill again for his willingness to compromise. many people are not aware of the negative impact air conditioners have on the environment and climate. it is much better known that the use of air conditioning increases the fuel consumption of the car. in many countries, even in my own country, the netherlands, it is actually unnecessary to have or use air conditioning. in the southern countries, it's different. given the negative effects of fluorinated greenhouse gases in air conditioners, i would advocate their phasing out as soon as possible. as far as i'm concerned, i'd rather have it in 2009 than 2011. what is important, however, is that we also choose article 175 as the legal basis. member states should be able to take more far-reaching measures, especially in view of the geographical differences and the redundancy of air conditioning in the northern countries. the member states should therefore be able to discourage air conditioning in cars. we may even have to go further to limit the installation of air conditioners in cars. for example, the commission could look at the energy efficiency requirements for cars when all the on-board equipment is fully used, because it is precisely these luxury accessories that negate the improved energy efficiency of engines. that is not an example of sustainable development. in short, we would like to see the result of the environment committee, with a few amendments, adopted by the plenary.
mr president, in all the years that parliament and the council have been jointly adopting legislation, it has not often been the case that a proposal from the european commission has been rejected on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. i think, and many of my colleagues do, that the proposal now before us - and i am talking about access to justice, the schörling report - must meet that fate. it is extremely strange that the european commission is proposing to transpose the aarhus convention into community law by means of a directive, when all the member states and nine of the ten acceding countries have signed the convention and some have even ratified it. the instrument of a directive to force member states to incorporate the aarhus convention into their national legislation is therefore disproportionate. in addition, this proposal is based on article 175, whereas in fact it is about the harmonization of the legal systems of the member states. that is not possible under article 175. the text of the proposal also differs from the text of the aarhus convention, which will of course cause major problems of interpretation. i am of course in favour of the aarhus convention, but i cannot help but conclude that the member states must implement it themselves. they have committed themselves to this. so the commission's present proposal is both technically incorrect and unnecessary. in conclusion, my group has very strong objections to this proposal. we have therefore tabled an amendment to reject the proposal and i would urge members to support it. the committee on the environment rejected such an amendment by one vote, which was not surprising, because just before the meeting of the committee on the environment it was assumed that my amendment would not be declared admissible. so nobody really prepared for that vote. i think we'll have a chance to do it again tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed constructively to the compromise and the directive, which i hope, and i am almost certain, will be adopted. i would like to thank in particular vice-president imbeni, who led the conciliation delegation, mr gargani, chairman of the legal affairs committee, and all the shadow rapporteurs who contributed constructively to the compromise, and ambassador gunning, who was present at the conciliation on behalf of the council. i would also like to thank in particular ana palacio, who is no longer in this parliament. it was the chairman of the legal affairs committee at the time, and she has created a unique moment in this parliament, namely what i have called the 'manders procedure'. the manders procedure meant that the whole parliament had to vote on which committee was competent to draw up and examine this report. i thought it was an honour and i think it led to an acceptable result. why are we satisfied with the compromise reached? because for the first time after decades of debate, a legal title has been found which will ensure that the costs of repairing environmental damage can be recovered from the polluter. the liberal principle that the polluter pays is the guiding principle. as a liberal, i am naturally very happy with that. this is new, it's a cornerstone, a bridge that connects economic and environmental law. i am not entirely satisfied with that, but as i said in my press conference after the compromise was reached with the council, we must regard this as a seed that has now been sown and we hope that it will grow into full-fledged legislation. what's going on? what's going on? i think that because of the many 'powers' in this directive there is still a fairly high chance that a kind of patchwork quilt will emerge in europe and that the member states will put the economy before environmental protection, particularly in economic times of weakness. i therefore regret that my final proposal to use article 95, maximum harmonisation, was not adopted and we have relied on article 195. environmental organizations, environmental ngos, have also played a special role in this. they do not complain that there will be too little harmonisation and they did not support maximum harmonisation during the procedure. i regret that very much. on the other hand, europe was apparently not ready. this is also clear from the conciliation procedure, since only four amendments to the common position were adopted in parliament. only four! we have had to convene a conciliation meeting three times before that. in the end, i think, the compromise was successful. this was also shown by the outcome of the vote in parliament's conciliation delegation, because twelve to one for the result achieved is of course fantastic. i hope it's a start. i also hope that the member states will not abuse their licensing policies and the state of the science to disrupt the level playing field for economic activities - which we so much want within the internal market - by allowing some member states more than others and no benefit to the environment. on the other hand, the profits have already been made. the maximum liability under the imo convention has been increased from 50 million to 1 billion. the preventive effect of the directive has thus already proved its usefulness. i hope that euratom will follow suit in the short term and then i think that this will eventually lead to good legislation. once again, the beginning is made and i hope it will lead to something beautiful. i would like to thank the commissioner very much. it was, of course, one of her top priorities and now she can close this subject within this mandate. i would therefore like to thank her and her staff, and in particular charles pirotti, who is also here, for their constructive contribution to this whole thing. i would like to invite the commissioner to lunch or dinner with us, because we have not had the opportunity to hold a press conference together because of her busy schedule. perhaps this is a good idea, because i would like to use this invitation to explain my thoughts on how i would like to see this directive develop into mature legislation in the long term. especially my thoughts on my emas. i would like to speak to her about that and i hope she will accept my invitation. perhaps there will be time for a beer after this debate. i thank everyone again and i hope that tomorrow the proposal will be adopted by an absolute majority. i thank you very much, mr president, and i thank all those who have contributed constructively.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to make a brief interruption. i was wondering if the date offer would be accepted, because then we could make an appointment through the cabinet.
in writing. - where the italian presidency failed to adopt the european constitution, the irish appear to be succeeding. now we have an unexpected and unique opportunity to involve all europeans in this process. we must give the voter clarity before he votes from 10 to 13 june. the council must therefore adopt the text in may, in advance of the time. i guess so. but how decisive is the council? for example, how strong is the will to combat terrorism effectively? the new terrorism coordinator, my party colleague gijs de vries, is absolutely the right man in the right place, but he has an impossible job if the national security services are not willing to cooperate. we also wanted the council to take clear decisions on how to stimulate the european economy. encourage innovation, ease the labour market and remove unnecessary rules. we got another clear decision: a committee will be set up. when will the council take responsibility? i still doubt that the report by the kok committee on economic growth will be a potent force. in the end, the countries themselves must carry out structural reforms.
- president, our colleague mr baltas has made a very balanced recommendation to the council on croatia's application for accession to the union. the main points of continuing concern from the union's perspective shall be identified in a fair manner. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the rapporteur also notes the great difficulties and efforts of zagreb in achieving these objectives. he rightly mentions the indispensable contribution of croatia's neighbours to a climate of mutual trust and security in the region, as mr pack has also pointed out. in short, i think mr baltas' report is 'terribly' good and you know what i mean by 'terribly'. even more interesting to me were the rather critical reactions to the draft recommendation from a number of croatian academic thinkers. overall, their comments were: "the european union is always asking a lot of us, but what is the concrete cost to the average croatian citizen?" the problems of everyday life, such as employment, education, health care and housing, are not lacking. but these are not beyond the careful attention of mr baltas. it is not for nothing that he asks in paragraph 1 (s) for greater support from the council for croatia's long and arduous road to europe. this cautious request is given added emphasis by the surprising results of an opinion poll this week in croatia. in the uk, 82% of respondents oppose any accession to the european union. let's hope this is just a snapshot that sinks back in. the pro-european course of prime minister sanader is already under pressure. the commission's proposal is therefore a good one. on the other hand, it is clear that zagreb is committed to integration into the euro-atlantic community. the european institutions therefore have the task of providing croatia with a close transatlantic relationship, a home.
- mr president, this report, with which i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs boumediene, confirms the pattern of human rights violations and human rights problems in the european union that we have also seen in the four previous reports in this parliamentary term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the illegal immigration of refugees, such as the introduction of a new system of asylum, the introduction of a new system of protection for refugees, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for refugees, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for refugees, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, the introduction of a new system of protection for the rights of asylum seekers, and the introduction of a new system of protection for refugees. all this under the guise of fighting terrorism. my colleague, anna karamanou, will say something about that in a moment. all in all, these reports, and the last one by mrs boumediene in particular, make us ask ourselves once again what the political response of the european institutions should be to all this. i am therefore particularly pleased that minister roche, speaking here on behalf of the irish presidency, has stated unequivocally that the european union must be prepared to put its hand in its own bosom. i appreciate this judgment very much. other presidencies have either gone around this or have not appeared at all in debates of this kind and i think that this honesty is very much to be commended. so, a tribute. we must nevertheless ask ourselves whether we are ready to call the european union's human rights policy a human rights policy in its own right. actually, that's not the case. we're on the right track, but what we have is still debris and building blocks. in a relatively short period of time, the last five years, important normative and institutional parameters have been changed. changes have been made, as the various speakers have already pointed out, but all of this does not make for a coherent human rights policy. let me try to walk the different points in my remaining time. firstly, we have a charter which explicitly sets out the human rights obligations of the member states. it's beautiful, beautiful, very good. secondly, we have a european parliament which bases its reports on it. and that's good, because that makes it systematic and controllable. thirdly, there is a network, as the commissioner rightly said, which has made not only the reporting, but also the analysis and advice much more professional. and i think that should continue to be the case, because it's a great achievement. fourthly, we have added an alert mechanism to article 7 of the treaty, which was adopted by the council at nice. and it's also a huge advance, because with an atomic bomb alone, you can't make war, so to speak. fifthly, we also have the commission communication of october 2003 which gave a new interpretation to this revised article 7. we therefore know how the commission should approach this whole matter. however, we are still waiting for the council's view of this commission communication. i think that parliament will be discussing this at its next sitting. the sixth building block we have, the commissioner has already spoken about it, is the human rights agency, which the council decided to set up in december. i am glad that he has already taken the first step on the road to decision-making. i shall also be making a contribution myself, in so far as i can. seventhly, and this has already been mentioned, there will soon be a constitution which will strengthen the value clause and incorporate the charter. it's all beautiful, but it's just building blocks, it's not a whole. what is really needed is a coherent human rights policy, including all the objectives, institutions, instruments and finances. i would also like to see a clearer picture of the extent to which the human rights problems in a member state are really a matter for the european union as a whole, so that the countries and the member states, and ourselves, can speak more honestly to each other than we have done so far. but i am extremely pleased with the contributions made by mr roche, on behalf of the presidency, and by commissioner vitorino.
- "i have no doubt that the economic war waged by shell in the niger delta will sooner or later be exposed and the crimes committed in this war will be punished". that, chairman, was said by ogoni leader ken saro-wiwa ten years ago. in the west, ten years later, saro-wiwa is still the most famous accuser of the extractive industries. shell has already changed some of its policies for the better and the extractive industries review mainly concerns projects of national industries. the analysis of the extractive industries presented here shows that there is still a great deal of work to be done before the world bank can operate effectively in this sector. the struggle of the ogoni people in nigeria is symbolic of one of the main conditions for the world bank's participation, namely the guarantee of the right of the indigenous people to be able to give their informed consent to projects financed by the world bank in advance, without coercion. for many developing countries, raw materials are the main source of income, but even if there is liquid or solid gold in their soil, the people of those countries do not get much of the return from it. more often than not, these countries are hampered by poverty, high mortality, civil war, corruption and totalitarianism. the environment is not only at odds with the population, but also with the rapid profits that raw materials bring. the same ken saro-wiwa said that fish in the niger delta taste like oil. it is therefore of the utmost importance to the pse group that the european council and the commission discuss this report and set strict conditions for world bank participation and mining projects, so that they can only take place if the standard requirements relating to the social, economic and environmental impact of raw material extraction are met. the priority should be to impose good governance requirements on project decisions. only in this way can these resource-rich countries develop as a whole. this can also be done by supporting the publish what you pay initiative, which provides insight into payments and revenues and gives the public the guarantee that the proceeds do not go into the pockets of the rich, but actually benefit the public. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
- madam president, commissioner, better half-turned than lost. that is the feeling i have about this matter. the original proposal by spain to cut off the passage to the mainland for illegal immigrants was less appropriate than the present plan. however, it is common ground that heavy demands are still being made on the carriers, and these are unjustified. it is not the intention that, without a proper debate, without a mandate, the tasks of the customs authorities should simply be transferred to the transporters. when that happens, it should be done in such a way that the effort and financial damage are kept to a minimum. that was still not the case in the last proposal. but even more important is the point that carriers need to know where they stand, they need to know what legislation they have to comply with. it is the task of the legislator to make this clear and to eliminate any duplication or contradiction. this is a key point in the discussion of the requirements of the us authorities to carriers. at the moment, it seems that airlines flying into the united states are operating in a legal minefield. any move left or right can have unintended and far-reaching consequences. it is not a meaningful contribution to their position to impose a new set of requirements on the transmission of information. we are therefore not saddened by the rejection of spain's initiative. this does not create a clear situation for airlines, but it does avoid the cumulation of disparate obligations. it is up to the responsible authorities to set clear and uniform requirements for the information to be provided by airlines, in the interests of everyone on this side of the ocean and the other.
- mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that this parliament has asked for the european development fund to be included in the eu budget. that question has been on the agenda for the last 25 years with regularity. but given the situation we are in, europe cannot and must not let this go. it will not be up to us here in parliament. if the council takes parliament's advice, the european union will be one step closer to a truly democratic and transparent policy. the edf is no longer a budgetary authority. it is also out of date for parliament to have no say in the level of funding, programming or allocations by country, region or sector. we are talking about half the total eu development aid budget! the edf is now almost completely beyond our parliamentary control and this lack of control is far from being compensated by the only power parliament has over the edf, namely the discharge. apart from this democratic deficit, there is a second disadvantage of keeping the edf off the budget, namely the duplications which arise in the annual budgets of the union and the edf. the financing of food aid, humanitarian aid and thematic operations in acp countries is often provided from the community budget. this duplication means that one cash flow of support from the same donor goes to the same recipient on the basis of two different procedures. that is what the council should be convinced of. this is also contrary to the reforms which started a few years ago in the commission's external relations sector. budgeting the edf requires a change in administrative procedures and a change in mentality. i ask the european commission and the commissioner to guarantee that this will be done with care and that the cotonou agreement will remain the framework for the budgeted edf, so that we do not lose the advantages of the present system, such as mutual involvement of the acp countries and europe and the multiannual programming of the budget. however, given the advantages of budgeting the edf, this should not prevent us from seizing this opportunity. in substance, the inclusion of the edf in the community budget means that we as a parliament can really work towards achieving the millennium goals. again, half of our entire budget is in the edf. the acp budgets should stipulate that at least 35% of the resources should go to social services, 20% of which should go to education and health. we must be careful that country and regional specific allocations remain the basis and that any shift in commitments is only made in consultation with the acp countries. finally, i would point out that the principle of coherence must be strictly respected when the edf is included in the budget, so that aid and resources are used to combat poverty. president and commissioner, this commission proposal is ideally suited to making europe's overall effort on behalf of the poorest countries, the acp countries, extraordinarily much more effective, more serious and more democratically controlled. i hope that with our support you will succeed in the council. i expect all countries to see the benefits, which i have listed here again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly the case with human rights, freedom of culture and the media, and the limitation of the political role of the army. we are following the negotiations on the future of cyprus with great interest, because they are an essential part of the road to the union. we had initially thought that turkey's participation in these negotiations would be particularly problematic because of the opposition of the army to compromise and because of the senior administrators in the turkish government. unfortunately, we must also note that the greek cypriot side is not cooperating optimally in the search for a solution to the cyprus problem, to put it mildly. of course, that's not the final word. we think that the negotiations will continue, because i cannot imagine that the greek cypriot government will dare to join the european union on such extremely bad terms. i think this government would stick to that for years and years. despite all the changes on paper in turkey and the commitment of the departments to give freedom to the organized society, the implementation of the reforms has proved very difficult. the government itself recognises this and has indicated its seriousness by setting up a monitoring system. i think that is an important position taken by the government, because for us in particular the implementation of all these changes is the essential point. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the obstacles to european union can hardly come as a surprise. the structure and philosophy of the state are reflected in the mentality of the population and of public servants. if they are thus on a track which is incompatible with the european union, it is not to be expected that this will change in the short term. the changes we are calling for are revolutionary. the main thrust of the report is confirmed by these observations. the european union must be strict with regard to the rule of law and democracy for all candidates, or states that wish to become so. this is first and foremost a matter of principle, but it is also a matter of the ability of the european union to function as such and it is a matter of persuasiveness vis-à-vis our own people, who must also find a basis for accepting this enlargement. the point is that the candidates are in line with the european union in terms of the political values they defend. until that is the case, membership should not be considered. it is not just a question of correcting a number of concrete abuses, but of the legal and social basis from which these abuses arise. it is not just the release of leyla zana, for example, who has been sentenced to many years in prison for conduct for which she has been awarded the sakharov prize by this parliament. the point is that such convictions will be unthinkable in the future. if you ask the highest courts in turkey about this, they, to my surprise, unfortunately still have to answer guilty. the same applies to the cultural rights of minorities. it must be inconceivable that they cannot be exercised because of obstruction. a real separation of church and state should not be a cause for panic, nor should religious freedom for groups not explicitly mentioned in the lausanne convention. it seems that this is a very difficult point for turkey. another very difficult issue is the position of the army. the military, as history shows, enjoys the confidence of a large part of the population, but politics will have to regain its self-confidence. the government is working on changes, but cannot go much further than circumstances allow. the union must nevertheless insist that the military should not have more political influence than is customary in the member states of the european union. i therefore reject amendments which would relax the union's demands on turkey. the fulfilment of the copenhagen political criteria must precede the business as usual of accompanying the adoption of the acquis. that is a lesson from previous enlargement processes and the experience with, for example, romania. it is also a signal to countries that are aspiring to membership. i also believe that the turkish government needs our pressure as a back-up against the forces of opposition in society and in parts of the government. elements of the acquis are non-negotiable. this also applies to values and their application in the european union. these are non-negotiable. they must be embraced and, if one really wants to be a member, simply adopted. on the other hand, i believe that the union should maintain the prospect of full membership for turkey as soon as the political, economic and other criteria are actually met. it is understandable that some amendments call for close involvement of the european parliament. but it is equally necessary that we do our homework to be able to process the accession of countries to the european union. that means that the results of the convention must be accepted, otherwise we cannot function. the principle of deepening and then expanding remains valid. the possibility, mr president, of participating in the good neighbour policy, as expressed in the napolitano report, can also be maintained, but amendments which merely grant turkey a place outside the union do not fit in with my report. the strong emphasis on fulfilling the political criteria is partly related to the desire to find sufficient support among the population. i hope, mr president, that the adoption of the main lines of this report will send a clear signal to the turkish government and society as well as to our own citizens in the union. the subject is one of principle and cannot be tolerated. i suggest that we continue the dialogue with turkey with an open mind. the turkish government is used to that by now. (applause from the left)
we have now reached the point in the debate on turkey where, fortunately, there is a great deal of agreement on the remaining problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the present oostlander report contains three minor points which i think should be dealt with. first of all, paragraph 8. the turkish position, as we have seen in recent days in cyprus, is a reflection of the power of the army. colleagues, we cannot be serious about this. what has just happened in cyprus is that the army has endorsed what the government said should be done. that is an example of reform and not an example of stagnation. let's take that part out of the report. that is possible with amendment no 10. secondly, in the light of the events of the past few days, can mr oostlander not seriously believe that the greek cypriots have shown that they are seriously committed to the annan plan? they will have to show that in the coming weeks. so i think that needs to change, too. finally, the third dirt. i would be in favour of lowering the voting threshold in the elections and have tabled an amendment to that effect. this is a wish of parliament which we must pass on to the turks, because i believe it is better that the turkish parliament should be more pluralist than it is now, with a 10% threshold. the major problem with the oostlander report, however, is in paragraph 7. the rapporteur has acknowledged, or perhaps should have acknowledged, that it is inevitable that if the current reforms continue, the member states will decide in december to open negotiations. what does paragraph 7 say about that? the interpretation of mr oostlander is that negotiations are inevitable, but we are not really going to negotiate. we are not going to negotiate the 31 chapters of the acquis, as we have done with all the other applicant countries. what is proposed in paragraph 7 is that we first complete all the political criteria. that sounds good, but what does that mean in practice? an example. the same paragraph says that a new constitution must be written. that is what mr oostlander is for and that is what i am for. if done in a decent way, it will take, i think, two to three years. the european union is doing this. another example. mr oostlander has repeatedly said that what we want, namely a change of mentality, is a long-term process. does he really think that this has to be all done before we can deal with the chapters? you can't be serious. does parliament, and does the socialist group, for example, really think that we should negotiate with turkey with an arm tied behind our back because we are not yet allowed to discuss 31 chapters of the acquis? my view, which is expressed in amendment no 9, is different. i'm in favor of doing two things after december. firstly, to continue to stress the importance of political criteria, with a special monitoring system if necessary, because that is important and will remain important, but at the same time to start the so-called normal negotiations. i do not think we can say to turkey in december that we are going to negotiate and follow mr oostlander's interpretation. that interpretation is now in paragraph 7 and it therefore makes it possible for us to, let me put it this way, first do only groundwork for years and then really negotiate. paragraph 7 is now a vague, i would almost say diplomatic, compromise that covers a lot. the alternative is a clear but nuanced position of parliament, and that is what turkey is entitled to.
mr president, in line with his previous report, mr oostlander is again presenting a very clear report to this house today on turkey's very steep path towards the european union. the rapporteur rightly notes in paragraph 32 that the country still interprets the secular state differently from the way it is used in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. i would like to strengthen the word 'state control' with the word 'promotion', because under the auspices of the presidency for religious affairs, which reports directly to prime minister erdogan, the turkish republic provides the sunni mainstream of islam with ample opportunities for social development. try the christian churches in turkey. to this day, although they are covered by the provisions of the lausanne convention of 1923, they must be deprived of the essential status of legal personality. in short, commissioner, there is work to be done, but i had already heard that from you. i also took note of paragraph 10 of the report and agreed with it. in this report, mr oostlander is advocating the independence and quality of higher education and scientific institutions in turkey. a very topical plea, given the persistent attempts of the reformist erdogan himself to subordinate the country's academic level to the, i quote, "islamist conservative political ideology of the cabinet". this urgent warning, from a member of the turkish academy of sciences about a month ago, was published in the frankfurter allgemeine. another signal to brussels of the real state of affairs in ankara.
turkey is making a great effort to meet the political criteria and has already taken various reform measures. the erdogan government is doing its best. that is a positive development, but there is still a great deal to be done if the negotiations are to be opened after december. torture and the restriction of various civil liberties remain a problem and the gap between paper and practice remains too wide. this problem is not confined to us in the ivory towers of brussels and strasbourg. ordinary europeans are also concerned and we must therefore be quite sure that we are going to make the right decision. i am therefore very surprised that mr lagendijk says that he thinks that turkey should negotiate with an arm behind its back if the political criteria are not first to be met and that this can also be done in parallel with the negotiations on the acquis. but that's the world upside down. it is as if we were doing something distasteful when we ask an acceding country to first meet our fundamental values. on that point too, an agreement must be an agreement. turkey must be judged fairly in the future on the basis of the political criteria of copenhagen. i have heard commissioner verheugen use the word zero tolerance and that appeals to me. the turks have a right to it and the people of the european union have a right to it. in short, the fixing of a date for negotiations in december is not a fait accompli.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. now that prime minister sharon himself is calling for a withdrawal from the occupied territories and the removal of settlements, the eu should support a new policy in this direction. a boycott of israel would further reduce europe's already very limited influence in the country and would constitute a serious obstacle to communication. the text of paragraph 40 is also unbalanced in mr van den bos's view, since it does not condemn the terrorist attack on ashdod, whereas the killing of the hamas leader has been condemned.
in the case of kosovo, the situation is not the same as in the case of the former yugoslavia. the people of kosovo remember the serbs in particular for their soldiers, police, tax collectors, prison guards, unfriendly officials and unwelcome rulers. they do not believe that the remaining 5% of serbs will acquire the albanian language and adapt to it. this minority is suspected of actually wanting to return to their former privileged position. their position is similar to that of the turks in greece and bulgaria, the hungarians in slovakia and romania and the russians in the baltic states, except that the memories of kosovo are more recent and marked by greater bitterness. the area designated as the bilingual autonomous province of kosovo-metohija within serbia after world war ii has in practice been divided into a northern serbian part - with a few scattered serb villages under military surveillance - and an otherwise purely albanian part. the few contacts between serbs and albanians result in violent conflicts. we should now work towards equality between peoples and good neighbourliness. i expect that the albanian intolerance towards the serbs, turks and roma - which is very regrettable - will disappear as soon as they are sure that they can take over the running of the country and will not be subjected to another power again.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. moreover, turkish emigrants and their descendants have formed a significant population in western europe over the last 40 years. it has made the question of whether turkey belongs to europe or whether it would be more appropriate to sign association agreements with the middle east, central asia or iran ever more theoretical. the forces which want to keep turkey out of the eu on the grounds that it is not geographically located in europe and is not based on the judeo-christian traditions have long since lost the debate. but that does not mean that the other extreme is necessarily right. in its present form, turkey does indeed fit into the authoritarian europe of the first half of the 20th century, but not yet into a union of parliamentary democracies. this will only happen when the country stops banning political parties, abolishes an electoral system aimed at exclusion, stops taking political prisoners and abolishes press censorship, the suppression of regional languages and the political influence of the army. it is not enough to change the legislation if it does not lead to changes in practice. anyone who wants turkish membership for military, economic or idealistic reasons should be aware of the negative consequences of a hasty accession. it will not benefit democracy, human rights, peace or the environment in the eu.
the rapporteur. mr president, i must say that as rapporteur i was extremely surprised by the 350 amendments in the plenary, whereas we had a very good debate in committee, with far fewer amendments than there are now. nevertheless, i have looked at the amendments and we will look tonight in the committee concerned at what we can do with all those amendments and make sure that there is an opinion for parliament. i am, however, extremely surprised that we now have to do in plenary what has not been done in the committee concerned. i would also point out that there is europe-wide support for the content of this report. if you think that there are parts of it which are not in accordance with the rules of procedure, i would like to hear that from you, because then we might be able to withdraw those parts. it is an excellent report, at least that is what friends and foes in the media say. so i do not see why we should now withdraw it for these kinds of reasons. i'd like to hear that, too.
the rapporteur. mr president, i must say that i am not very satisfied with the commissioner's remark that there is no breach of regulation 95/46. the agreement itself states, in paragraph 4, that all data of european passengers will be processed in accordance with the constitutional requirements of the united states. one of the laws in the united states that should apply is the privacy act, but this law does not apply to persons from third countries, to give just one example. article 6 of the agreement states that there will be reciprocity to the extent feasible and on the basis of strict reciprocity. i do not want to debate this now, but i can easily give you ten more examples of things that are not true and that i believe are in violation of our privacy laws. that is why we should bring this matter before the court. the commissioner said in the previous debate on the transfer to third parties: "we are still negotiating with the united states". i heard that right, the last time and again. it is really beyond words that i, as rapporteur, had to present a report on adequacy finding, when the commission itself still considered that the whole thing was not adequate. i would like to bring that up in the debate. i thank all the members who spoke before the court. i think the question to the court of justice whether we can conclude international agreements which exclude both the european parliament and the american congress is extremely interesting. i have understood from consultations with members of congress that if a similar agreement were to be presented to the us congress, it would never, if ever, pass. let us show that we as a european parliament know how to stand up for our citizens and not be pressured by anyone. we're the only ones who can do this. i hope that parliament will follow the legal committee in this.
mr president, for more than a year and a half this parliament has been working on the european commission's proposal to harmonize the provisions on consumer credit. we believe that this is far too long, also because the advisory committee's views were already outlined before the summer of 2003. it seems that the european commission, in proposing maximum harmonization, has misjudged the political feasibility. my group, on the other hand, can agree to minimum harmonization of the provisions on consumer credit. in this way, the rights acquired in the member states are preserved. one of the acquired rights in my country, the netherlands, is that consumers without extensive contracts with a bank may temporarily have a debt on their current account. we call that "red" standing. it is rightly proposed that article 3 (2) (c) be deleted by means of amendment no 52. i would like to hear from the commissioner whether he accepts this amendment. can the existing practice of overdraft be maintained under the new directive without additional administrative action? secondly, i would like to draw attention to the european commission's proposal on unfair trading practices. article 4 of the directive states that a trader is only required to comply with the requirements of his home country. from the consumer's point of view, this is incomprehensible. a consumer wants the protection he enjoys in his own country. this article is a major obstacle to effective consumer protection. a trader simply has to comply with the requirements of the country where he markets his products. our group has therefore tabled amendment no 95 to solve this problem. i hope that the members will support this. i would like to hear from the commissioner whether this amendment can also be accepted.
first of all, mr president, i would like to express my appreciation for mr sturdy, for his work and for his willingness to compromise. there are wide differences in the permitted residues of plant protection products between member states. that is why it is a good idea to set maximum residue limits. but we are very concerned about the amendments to the text. the commission proposal is too little concerned with consumer protection and too much with the protection of agricultural interests. i would like to draw your attention to three points. firstly, maximum residue levels should be set at the lowest possible level. public health and best agricultural practices must be the guiding principles. non-chemical controls should be given priority over chemical controls. i would like to record that now. second, children are especially vulnerable because their livers are not yet fully developed. research by the emma children's hospital in amsterdam has shown that certain residues can seriously retard the development of children. it is therefore of the utmost importance that children be adequately protected. i therefore ask you all to support amendment no 67. thirdly, clear and strict regulation would eliminate the current distortions of competition in the authorization of the use of plant protection products. that would be a good thing.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr mombaur for his work as rapporteur on this difficult subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is a good thing that the council has finally reached a political agreement which takes parliament's concerns into account. last year, when the question of the security of natural gas supply was being discussed, i was rapporteur for an opinion on behalf of the economic and monetary affairs committee. i then explained why the commission proposal was not satisfactory on a number of points. i am pleased to see that the council has taken up the main recommendations which have emerged from the debates. a first recommendation concerned the legal basis of the commission proposal. the european commission relied on article 95 of the treaty on the internal market. we discussed here at that time that it is better to use article 100 crisis measures . i think that the european commission's view that article 100 applies only to economic and monetary policy is incorrect. economic policy may also be understood in a broader sense as energy policy. commissioner, you say that the european commission does not agree with the council and parliament. are you planning to go back to the court of justice? a second recommendation. the gas directive, which was the subject of the council's common position, was circulated in the council, the commission and parliament last year. the proposal on security of supply does not seem to be in line with this. on the contrary, the proposal seems to be contrary to the gas directive. it was surprising that a proposal on the security of natural gas supply was tabled in parliament pending the procedure with the gas directive. i would like to know from the commissioner whether the amended proposal on the security of natural gas supply has been linked to the gas directive. if so, how was this done?
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking my fellow shadow rapporteurs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thank you for your unity and support. i thank the irish presidency for its constructive approach to the negotiations. thank you also for the european commission. you've been very cooperative, even though you're not formally required to do so. i would like to thank commissioner wallström. we have reached an agreement at first reading. i will deal with nine points. i think the result is good. point one. this linkage directive will enter into force as early as 2005. companies can start now, they get legal certainty now. point two. this linking directive is independent of the entry into force of the kyoto protocol. the emissions trading act is also independent of the kyoto protocol. for us in europe, kyoto is now starting to work. we are not going to wait for russia to ratify kyoto. one hundred and twenty countries, two-thirds of the world's population, have already ratified kyoto. point three. energy companies and large corporations can now earn emission allowances by investing in the conversion of chinese coal-fired power plants to gas, in making coal-fired power plants more efficient, in solar power plants in indonesia, in wind farms off the coasts of developing countries or in capturing waste gas from landfills. there are many, many more ways to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases. point four. as in the kyoto protocol, we have decided that the construction of nuclear power stations is not allowed. point five. carbon sinks are out of the question, because in the eyes of the european parliament, growing trees is only a temporary solution. trees blowing over or burning down. even when trees die a natural death, they give up all the carbon they have taken in. on the other hand, biomass or biofuels are possible. governments can also gain experience with the sinks. point number six. large hydropower plants can only be built if the criteria of the world commission on dams are respected. it is true that hydropower makes a real contribution to combating climate change, but ecological and social criteria must be taken into account. we are also more stringent than the kyoto protocol on this point. point 7 of the report. the agreement that member states should do half of their kyoto efforts at home and half abroad has been reaffirmed. agreements to limit companies to the ceiling alone are pointless, because that will lead to governments, at least some governments, putting 50% and their businesses also putting another 25% of their investments abroad. then the end of the story is that only 25 percent is invested in one's own country and 75 percent outside. we would be putting our ecological credibility at risk. point 8 of the report. there is a great deal of interest outside europe in our emissions trading system and in this linkage directive. fifteen states in the united states and four provinces in australia are planning to set up similar emissions trading schemes. the european commission will examine whether they can be integrated into our european system. the same applies to canada and hopefully in the future to japan. in this way, the implementation of the kyoto protocol will begin before the kyoto protocol officially enters into force. point 9 of the report. we will have to extend the scope of the emissions trading system to aviation and later to the road sector. this is better than the path of domestic ji projects, as some have suggested. finally, the french government and the french industry do not like this linkage directive. neither does greenpeace. that's old school dogma. i am glad that all the political groups, the council of ministers and the european commission have a better understanding of this and want to support this compromise. climate change is getting worse every day, and we need to act together. for climate change, it doesn't matter where the greenhouse gas is produced. with this linking directive in hand, we are now taking the fight to solve the climate problem on a global scale.
madam president, last year our colleague at the time, mr jorge moreira da silva, reached an agreement with the council on trade in greenhouse gases. this was a difficult task, since the agreements already made with industry in a number of countries to reduce greenhouse gases had to be incorporated into european policy. today, tomorrow after the vote, i believe a new agreement has been reached and new agreements have been made to extend emissions trading to third countries. i am proud that we, as the european union, are showing that we mean what we say about kyoto and that we are not only making commitments but also keeping them. we in europe have pursued a defensive policy on the environment for too long. with the new cdm instrument and the joint implementation, we can take the lead globally again. with the development of clean technology that is exported, we are developing a new market for cleaner production processes. our european business community can benefit from this. but i expect that the transfer of environmentally friendly techniques will also help the developing countries. it helps them to introduce sustainability and it will also bring them more prosperity. the trade projects that can now take place with developed countries or with countries in transition to a market economy will increase the market on which emissions trading will operate and thus also reduce the cost per tonne of greenhouse gas reduced. high environmental performance at the lowest possible cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. since we have now established at european level that joint implementation and the cdm are too complementary, we must be satisfied with the revision that has been agreed. what matters now is that the corporate world takes what's there. alexander the red did his best. i congratulate him on that. he's made good negotiations possible. thank you for that.
commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, for his report. the commission proposal for a new battery directive seeks to extend the scope of the existing community legislation on batteries and accumulators containing certain dangerous substances to all batteries and accumulators placed on the community market. today the existing legislation covers only 7% of all the portable batteries sold each year in the european union. this has hindered the setting up of efficient national collection and recycling schemes. consumers have also been confused as to what is to be collected, and what not, and have therefore not participated effectively in the national collection schemes. consequently, today many batteries still end up in the environment. in 2002, for example, approximately 45% of the total volume of portable batteries sold in the 15-member eu was landfilled or incinerated. the current proposal aims to achieve a high level of environmental protection while at the same time contributing to proper functioning of the internal market for batteries. in this respect the commission's proposal has two main goals: creating a closed loop system for all batteries and accumulators, and introducing a producer responsibility scheme. the proposed closed loop system requires member states to take all necessary measures to prevent final disposal of spent batteries and achieve a high level of battery collection and recycling. i am confident that the proposed collection targets for portable batteries, in combination with the proposed high recycling targets, will protect our environment against the risks involved in the disposal of those batteries. moreover, the proposal addresses the issue of the uncontrolled disposal of hazardous batteries containing mercury, cadmium or lead. in this respect, in addition to the existing restrictions on the use of those substances, established by the end-of-life vehicles directive, the following additional measures would be introduced: a ban on landfilling and incineration of all industrial and automotive batteries, which covers most batteries containing lead or cadmium, and an additional collection target for portable nickel-cadmium batteries, which requires monitoring of the waste stream to determine the volume of discarded portable nicad batteries. the extended impact assessment has identified the proposed policy options as the most sustainable from an economic, social and environmental viewpoint. i turn now to the introduction of a producer responsibility scheme. the application of the producer responsibility principle is an important step towards incorporating the external environmental costs into the production phase and, at the same time, towards encouraging producers to market more environmentally friendly products. all batteries and accumulators should be diverted from the waste stream and recycled in order to avoid environmental damage and recover the various metals they contain. to achieve this goal, we need to create a closed-loop system and make battery producers responsible for the products they make.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i should like to explain my report on batteries and accumulators. after much insistence on the part of the european parliament, there is now at last a proposal from the european commission. the commission proposal has a number of positive points. first, all batteries are covered by the directive. secondly, binding collection objectives. thirdly, binding recycling rates and recycling efficiencies and fourthly, financing mechanisms in which producer responsibility plays a major role. we have had a very long debate on batteries in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the main subjects discussed were the prevention of heavy metals and collection targets. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has reached agreement with all the groups on most of the points. even on the collection targets for the batteries we have reached a broadly supported compromise. as the sales of batteries vary greatly from one member state to another, especially after 1 may, it was decided to propose a percentage of sales as the collection target. the prevention of heavy metals has been developing for many years. eu legislation now prohibits the heavy metals mercury, lead and cadmium in materials and parts of vehicles placed on the market after 1 july 2003 and in new electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market after 1 july 2006. the main problem with batteries and accumulators is the presence of the heavy metals mercury, lead and cadmium. the explanatory memorandum to the european commission's proposal, on pages 9 to 12, clearly describes the harmful effects of the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead on the environment and health. for this reason, most mercury batteries were already banned in 1998. the concepts of the revised battery directive of the european commission have always been based on a ban on nickel-cadmium batteries. the commission's current proposal, strangely enough, does not call for a ban on nickel-cadmium batteries but for a so-called closed loop for cadmium. however, it appears that there is no closed loop, as only 80% of the portable nickel-cadmium batteries have to be collected. so 20 percent of portable nickel-cadmium batteries end up in landfills or in incinerators. since cadmium is a volatile metal, it is irreversibly released into the air during waste incineration. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has therefore adopted a ban on the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead. in addition, we have included an extensive list of exceptions for cases where no suitable substitutes are yet available. this includes batteries for hearing aids, emergency lighting, industrial batteries, lead-acid batteries and wireless tools. although i personally do not think the last exception is necessary, i have added it to meet the objections of some colleagues. the replacement of nickel-cadmium batteries, namely nickel-metal hydride batteries, operates at a temperature of minus 20° celsius to plus 60° celsius. i can therefore assume that these batteries are usable throughout the european union. finally, madam president, i would like to respond to a comic strip by the european portable battery association which falsely suggests that all kinds of applications could no longer be used if the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection were adopted. i have a four-and-a-half-year-old cell phone. this old phone has a lithium-ion battery. i'm pretty sure all your cell phones have a nickel-metal hydride or lithium-ion battery. in short, if nickel-cadmium batteries are banned for these applications, there is no problem. another example from the comic is the lead batteries in cars. these lead-acid batteries are not covered by the ban in the car wreckage directive. they are also not covered by the ban under the battery directive, because, as you have just heard, they are included in the list of exceptions. the same is true of all the button cells in hearing aids and watches, wireless tools, emergency lighting and all industrial applications. even the european consumer organisation beuc is in favour of a ban on nickel-cadmium batteries for consumer applications. as you know, the alternatives are wide open. i have, however, encountered opposition from the industry to the fact that they do not want a ban on principle. this goes so far that it is still opposed, even though all the exceptions requested have been honoured. i believe that such arguments should not be a factor in decision-making. i suspect a dangerous tactic behind that. it is noted that the industry, which is so strongly against a ban on nickel-cadmium batteries, promotes the alternatives to them on its own website. let us therefore promote these alternatives too, by removing as much as possible of the harmful heavy metals from batteries.
madam president, cadmium is extremely toxic. in the framework directive on water, we, that is to say the council, parliament and the commission, decided to phase out cadmium. why don't we do this here? the commission proposes a closed loop system, but the rapporteur has already pointed out that only 80% is recovered, which means that 20% inevitably disappears into the environment. the commission proposal has another problem, namely the removal of cadmium from the waste stream. a very small amount of cadmium from a very large waste stream. that is a very inefficient way of working. it is therefore better to work towards a ban and then allow a number of exceptions. lithium-ion and nickel-hybrid batteries are already on the market. in the future, there will also be fuel cells. so the alternative is there. in fact, the alternative's market share is already growing. it is therefore a great pity that the commission has succumbed to the pressure of a section of industry. european policy must reward the leaders in industry and not the laggards, as the commission does. unfortunately, the christian democrats and the commission are doing exactly that, rewarding those who fall behind. i hope that the majority of this house will be wiser.
president. - i agree with what is on the table with a heavy heart. i wanted more and i wanted it better in some ways. i would like to thank commissioner dimas for his answers. the regulation as it stands now applies to all eu citizens. that's profit. i see that it has not only been extended in scope but also simplified. that's profit, too. i see that on paper a clear distinction has been made between the exportability and non-exportability of cash benefits. i think that there could be problems with the annexes. i still regret that mrs gillig and her socialist colleagues did not even want to put my amendment to a democratic vote on that point last time. i am afraid that we are going to have problems with the annexes. mr president, there are important improvements in this regulation for frontier workers. i see the legal ramifications of what has now been accomplished. for example, certain events in a member state should be treated by the country of residence in the same way as similar events that have taken place in its own territory. that's an advantage. i also see that the position of the family members of frontier workers has in fact been reversed and that the family members now have rights too. however, those same rights are set aside in an annex. that is a gain in the regulation, but a loss for what is in the annex. i feel, mr president, that we could have done more if we had looked at all the protocols. for example, in the field of taxation and social security contributions. i know that the council is not in favour of this, but we could have done it in one hand. i see that the judgments of the court of justice have been made much clearer in this regulation on a number of points. i also see that the court's judgments on health care have been well taken up. i just have a problem with the way the outpatient services have been handled. that is contrary to what the court says. the question of unemployment has also been raised more prominently, although less strongly than i had expected. third countries are now included, but that was already the case in my report. i have advised my group to vote in favour, but that does mean that i want to have every opportunity to improve what can be improved in the wording of the import regulation and also in the annexes. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much.
the simplification and modernisation of the regulation has been a difficult birth. i would like to congratulate all those involved and particularly the rapporteur of parliament, mr cornelissen and his team, the irish presidency and a number of presidencies beforehand on this achievement. my group thinks that this is a good basis and it is also very important that priority be given to ensuring that the first step is completed before 1 may. we are not, of course, quite finished or 100% satisfied. it is also very important that the implementation of the annexes and the implementation of the implementing regulation, with 25 member states, be closely monitored during the new mandate. we must not only look at the systematic approach which has now been established, but also at the consequences of the changes which will result, because some people may be seriously deceived. these problems must also be solved. in addition, there are problems which cannot be solved in the regulation itself. some of these have already been mentioned, for example the linking of taxes and social security schemes or the schemes which supplement social security schemes through caos or in the private sphere. these are matters which affect frontier workers in particular. we have called in this house on several occasions for a border labour test, for changes in national rules and for much better structured cooperation between member states where crossborder labour movements are frequent. i would therefore like to call on the dutch presidency to do so in the next six months, as soon as the revision is ready. the netherlands, with its neighbours germany and belgium, should set an example for the other member states in areas where it itself still has much to do bilaterally and, if possible, should also come up with more ambitious cooperation proposals for the 25 member states, because an intensification of labour migration is to be expected. i shall not repeat all the points because of the time, but i would at least like to suggest that cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission should continue on an equal footing in a constructive way. perhaps in a special working group, for which mrs lambert has already named a name: the friends of regulation 1408.
president. - i should like to congratulate the commissioner on his new post. i hope he shares our view that mobility in the member states is more than necessary, also if we are to implement the lisbon agenda. the lambert report and the regulation 1408/71 on which it is based are of course important instruments for this. i am extremely concerned about the reluctance of the member states to consider the consequences when they look only at their own tax systems and their own social security. i think it is a grateful task to give a push in the right direction on this point in the future. that does not mean that you have to get parliament behind you, but above all that you have to get the member states behind you. nevertheless, i should like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have contributed. my group will vote for the lambert report tomorrow. i must say that i have great admiration for the rapporteur, mr lambert. there are good things in this regulation. the definition of frontier workers has been adopted, improvements have been made in the area of pensions and the family members of frontier workers have also been taken into account. but it will. my country, the netherlands, for example, is asking for an opt-out on parts anyway. for example, in the area of medical treatment for the families of frontier workers. we have already dealt with this in the regulation, but the netherlands is still asking for an opt-out. well, i don't think this is possible. i think you should always be the first to tell your own country that they're doing it wrong. this is of course also true of other countries which are extremely concerned that the enlargement of the european union will place a heavy burden on their social security systems. i hope that together we can achieve the ideals that mobility between member states is promoted, that frontier workers who are the first to do so should be rewarded for it and not always have to fight for their rights. i understand that the president thinks i have been speaking too long, but i would very much like to have another tree with the new commissioner on how we can bring this subject into the limelight. i think we need a permanent monitoring committee for that.
to replace the rapporteur. mr president, it all started in november 2001. the prestige sank, and tens of thousands of tons of oil spilled into the sea off the coasts of galicia, spain, and france. even the british and belgian coasts were stained with traces of crude oil. it was a real european drama and yet another drama we were not expecting. the european parliament appointed dirk sterckx as rapporteur, but because of circumstances in his own country he asked me to replace him. so i'll be taking his place on behalf of the liberals and say a few words. in the european parliament, there is great disappointment, because after the erika disaster we had already worked constructively with the commission to tighten up the policy. the results were two erika packages, but still, another disaster had to happen first. in september 2003, the european parliament adopted a first report by mr sterckx. this report dealt in detail with what had happened and made a number of recommendations. the main points of the report were: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the temporary committee for the improvement of safety at sea (mare) was set up in november 2003 and its mandate was first to investigate recent shipping accidents, especially with the prestige and the erika; secondly, to analyse the social and economic consequences; thirdly, to evaluate existing european and international rules; fourthly, to examine how the recommendations of the first resolution have been implemented. finally, if necessary, additional proposals will be made. we have now completed six months of hard work and a balanced report. it has not always been easy to look at the situation rationally, but fortunately everyone has worked well together and has been constructive so far, so that the adoption of this report will hopefully be a serious step towards safer seas, because that has been the focus of the work of the last six months. shipping safety is in everyone's interest, because no one should think that another prestige or an erika will go down any shore. on behalf of mr sterckx, i would like to thank mr jarzembowski, chairman of the mare committee, the people who spoke to us - including the captain of the prestige, who received a delegation from the committee - all the coordinators and all the colleagues. mr sterckx regrets that he cannot be there because of local problems. now the report. step one, clearing the wreckage. according to the spanish authorities, 43 000 tonnes of crude oil have been recovered. repsol, the company that will extract the remaining oil from the wreck, says there's still 14,000 tons in the wreck. so, as the report says, there are still 20,000 tonnes unaccounted for. so these 20,000 tons are still a threat. the cleaned oil is stored somewhere, but it still needs to be processed. secondly, the meeting with the captain exposes a contradiction between what the spanish authorities say, that 10,000 tonnes of oil had been released into the sea at the very beginning, and the statement by the captain that only 2,000 to 3,000 tonnes were lost on the first day through one of the two openings. and by the way, the way the captain is being treated doesn't really encourage people to go into the maritime profession. it is a real task, and it is very difficult when you are personally put under pressure in this way. and so do a lot of the men this captain works with. the prestige is not alone in this, as witness what has happened to other shipwrecks involving other crew members. there's still no report on the prestige of the flag state, the bahamas. that is unfortunate and, in fact, quite inappropriate, considering what we have all done to contribute to the work. i have a few more proposals i'd like to say something about. first, compliance with existing law remains a priority. we must first and foremost apply what already exists. we are pleased to note that the member states have made up for the delays in the directive on port state control and classification agencies. that is why we propose to update the text of paragraph 7 and to reject the second part, since this question seems to have been resolved. the european coast guard has been the subject of a good compromise in the committee. i have found that the last part of the compromise is confusing and contrary to our request for an independent decision-making and command structure at the level of the member states, which can impose the necessary decisions. the visit of the briton robert middleton to our committee was very instructive. i therefore propose that the contradiction in amendment no 26 be removed and that paragraph 13 be brought into line with paragraph 10. then there is the matter of labelling and tracing containers with dangerous cargo. this point is included in the report, but i think a quick scan from the commission is needed to indicate what level of transmitters we should set up. possibly passive, but possibly active, heavy-duty transmitters. i would ask mrs palacio to look at that again. there are very simple, inexpensive transmitters that can be attached to any load. we can introduce it the day after tomorrow, the market is ready. i think it's important to have this kind of thing well-ordered. i look forward to your answer.
president. - i also congratulate mr sterckx on his excellent report. it contains many good recommendations which will hopefully be implemented so that we will be even better able to prevent what we have experienced a number of times in the recent period, namely unacceptable accidents with oil tankers. it is particularly important now to carry out what has been agreed. in particular, by investing much more in monitoring existing measures. we must invest in global cooperation to tackle international maritime security problems outside the european union. consultation with and action against flag states which do not take such stringent safety measures is also of great importance. i think we all want so much to happen in the years to come that we never have to have a debate like this again in parliament and that the risk of accidents of this kind will be reduced considerably, partly because of what we are doing as the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report also contains many proposals on this point. we must learn from each other and we must try to follow the same procedures. the experience of and the discussion with the english coordinator have just been mentioned. it was found that the united kingdom has a very clear command line in the event of accidents. that too must be regulated at european level. we therefore support the proposal to establish a european coastguard. that's a fair goal. it is important, however, that we first look at how these can be set up through research, projects and experiments. we are strongly in favour of giving emsa, this new body, an important role in the further development of policy in this area, including controls and the like.
mr president, commissioner, as other members have already said, we can be satisfied with the work done by the rapporteur. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr sterckx on his work on safety at sea. that compliment goes to the commissioner, too. the report before us is concise and clear and has avoided a repetition of the september resolution. i myself tabled a number of amendments in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, all of which were adopted or included in the rapporteur's compromise amendments. a few remarks on my concerns. firstly, the european coast guard. the majority in this parliament rightly favours a far-reaching form of cooperation between the various coastguards with the ultimate aim of establishing a common european coastguard if necessary. it is of great importance for both the coastguard and the european maritime safety agency (emsa), which has already been set up, to have sufficient powers to carry out the work in the interests of maritime safety. i think that much more attention should be paid to the maintenance and condition of ships. for example, a poorly maintained double-hulled tanker is more dangerous than a well-maintained single-hulled tanker. i have also expressed my concern about the registration labelling of containers and barrels containing dangerous chemicals and substances. this was due to the loss of a highly toxic cargo from the andinette in the north sea, which revealed that the substance in question did not correspond to the description on the consignment notes. i am also concerned about the increase in exports of russian oil via the baltic sea along the eu coastline, as this is often done using the cheapest substandard tonnage. as my own report on the introduction of criminal sanctions has been adopted by the council, i am pleased to see that the rapporteur and some members here are also calling on the council to take a decision on this matter as soon as possible. internationally, there are plenty of regulatory options to address the situation. the problem is that the member states do not enforce the rules to which they have committed themselves by means of conventions. it is precisely these member states which refuse to be controlled by community legislation.
i am glad, mr president, that the rapporteur has managed to find good compromises in this parliament after a very long period. thank you for that. this proposal to price heavy goods transport is an improvement on the current system. it gives member states more flexibility as regards the nature of their systems. the rates can be adjusted to the time, day, weight and euro emissions. it therefore makes the tariffs more flexible and more market-oriented than under the old regime, and that is profit. i also think it is important that the general conditions for the pricing of heavy goods vehicles be regulated at european level. this is a systematic matter. the question is how a toll should be levied and arranged by a member state. it is important not to allow unnecessary new tariffs for heavy goods traffic to have a disruptive effect, which would lead to a race from the top down, as a serious consequence of a normal logistical flow of goods. we don't want to make it a competition. the proposal that is now before us is not yet fully completed. i myself welcome amendment no 50 by mr simpson and mr swoboda. i too am concerned about the current lack of clarity on how to internalize the external costs, environmental costs, social costs and accident costs. this should be done on the basis of generally accepted calculation methods. it is good that the commission is coming back with this in two years' time to indicate how we are going to shape it. finally, i am pleased that every reference to passenger transport has been removed from this report. it is simply too far to make agreements at european level at the moment. that is why passenger transport, often by car, is so large and why in very important member states this volume problem - car traffic often means local traffic for them - and local pricing can be tackled. it is particularly important, however, to ensure that there is an alternative.
president, commissioner, children learn rules, but they try to go over the edge again and again. corrections must be made to prevent worse. the same is true of adults. something pushes them to the limits of what is permissible, and often a correction is needed to keep them on the right path. in road transport, the need to compete in order to compete can be gained by sharing a breach of the other. i am convinced that we can reduce such situations by adequate controls on legislation, so that infringement does not pay off. in his report, mr markov makes good proposals to tighten up these checks. however, there are also less meaningful comments and some things are missing. the good points concern the paragraphs on equal interpretation and application of existing schemes and the aim of non-discrimination of the carriers to be checked. the inclusion of the driver's licence in the checks is a useful addition. however, in our view, the comments on so-called 'serious' infringements in their present form are not appropriate. the limited margin of error allows everyday traffic situations to offend drivers and businesses alike, with no intention whatsoever. only repeated infringements should constitute a serious infringement. the same applies to the inclusion of the working time directive in the scope of the checks. national freedoms make it difficult to achieve a clear enforcement at the moment. this creates a lot of confusion and annoyance. it is advisable to agree on a common interpretation of the provisions before incorporating them. a crucial gap at the moment is the position of the auditors. in some member states they have not been given the powers necessary to carry out their assigned tasks satisfactorily. that's gonna have to change. president. - despite these reservations, i should like to thank mr markov for the good report. i hope that the honourable member will reconsider my remarks.
in the netherlands, the dutch media have given the impression that mr doorn, who is the interim leader of the cda party in the netherlands, has found a way to save 10 billion euros in the netherlands. the superficial reader thinks he's going to use this money to lower taxes for the eu. mr doorn does not provide any solution to the problem of the eu wasting 20% of its budget every year on prestige projects, on pumping money between the rich member states and on fraud. he is concerned only with freeing business from what he considers a stifling bureaucracy. he also called for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism. this is in line with the efforts of the dutch minister of finance, mr zalms, to reduce the administrative burden on businesses from eur 17 billion to eur 14 billion a year. he believes that half of these are due to european rules. mr zalms' calculations show that this is not 10 billion, but only 1.5 billion. i am in favour of extending the possibilities for assessing the negative consequences of european legislation at the earliest possible stage, but i think mr doorn wants to prevent rules which are quite different from mine.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. before a public debate is possible, serious differences of opinion are already cleared up. in this case, the business community is satisfied that co2 emissions trading can start as early as 2005 instead of 2008 thanks to the energetic efforts of the green rapporteur. it is in line with the liberal view that reducing emissions is too much for animals at home and can therefore be done better in countries where it is cheaper. the expected benefits of this are faster achievement of results worldwide and an incentive for developing countries to use environmental technology developed in europe immediately in their industrialization. the disadvantages are that no action is taken at home, that eastern european countries are selling their rights to rebuild their industry and that third world countries may have to abandon industrialization permanently. however, it is positive that at least 50% of the reduction must be achieved within the eu. the advantage of this proposal is that production forests which are intended to be felled or which can be burned can no longer be included, through fraud, in the list of carbon sources which remove carbon dioxide from the air and convert it into oxygen.
the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome for many years. in the meantime, such a constitution is being prepared, which will permanently establish genuine free competition, ever-increasing armaments and the undemocratic power of the council. this constitution and article 7 of the current eu treaty allow for measures against member states which cease to be democracies and which seriously and persistently violate the rule of law. it is important for the undemocratic spain of the aznar government, which lost the elections, and for the possible future member states romania and turkey. neither these provisions nor the commission's communication on them make it clear whether they also apply to serious failure to act in respect of human rights violations. i appreciate that in his proposal mr voggenhuber will interpret it on the basis of openness, equality, plurality of opinions and confidence that the union will not exercise permanent supervision over the member states. i also agree with him that the european parliament must play an important role in suspensions and that this cannot be left to the council's power politics. what bothers me, however, is that his proposals are laced with idealism. unfortunately, the real values of the european union are the market, the currency, free competition and armaments, rather than democracy, human rights, the environment, peace and solidarity.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. president, the committee on budgetary control has made the following comments on the commission's proposals in general terms. firstly, we would like budgets to be more realistic in the future than they have been in the past. each year we have seen large surpluses. there is nothing wrong with that in itself, but why should it be put in the budget first? the second point, which is very important to us, is that some 80 to 85 per cent of all the money is spent by the member states. as an additional check, would it not be possible to have each member state issue a declaration each year stating that the funds have been well spent? if it is wrong afterwards, the commission is legally stronger to take action against the member state concerned. national declarations of good conduct, then. the third point is that we would like, but this is well known, that once in many years there should be a positive das. it is not the case that on the eve of the elections the commission is still unable, after nine years, to obtain a positive declaration of expenditure from the european court of auditors.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, we in the committee on employment and social affairs are very pleased with the report by mr garriga polledo. he has the most difficult reporting role we have because it is during the period when parliament is temporarily absent. at such times there are always various forces, particularly in the council, who try to take up the subject, but i think it is up to mr garriga polledo to resist these attacks. we had three main priorities from our committee. one of them is fully covered in the report, and that is lisbon. lisbon is the key to better competitiveness, better employment and a better economy. we must emphasize this even more than in the past. the social partners must also be mentioned if lisbon is to succeed. it is a very small sum, but it is very important. it would be good if that were somehow still to be dealt with in the resolution. another point is safety and health, and this will become very important in the coming period, especially with regard to the new member states.
i would like to thank mr garriga polledo, president-in-office, for his work and i too look forward to a fruitful cooperation on the 2005 budget. the point i wish to make is a little more general, because the terry wynn report on the financial perspective and the report before us today also speak of the lisbon process, the need to achieve higher economic growth. i wonder why the promises made in gothenburg are not mentioned anywhere? then it was about the quality of the growth we're producing, about sustainability and about biodiversity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. the member states seem to be trying to achieve the lisbon objectives mainly through a kind of management by speech, because money and a real social policy are not on the table. there are some empty phrases, but sustainability and the promises made about it are no longer heard, they are ignored. i want a europe of people and the environment, not of markets and currencies. so not only a europe of lisbon, but also of gothenburg.
rapporteur. – mr president, since i am leaving parliament this is my last speech and i would like to take this occasion to thank everyone who has helped me here over the past five years, in particular my own staff, my assistants and the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control. i would like to congratulate the secretary-general on the result that we are hopefully going to deliver tomorrow, which would be a positive discharge for the european parliament. the cooperation has been excellent and the secretary-general, together with all his staff, has done a very good job of running the parliament over the last five years in the face of mounting challenges, not least of which is enlargement. the criticism contained in my report is not aimed at parliament's staff or the secretary-general. my criticism is aimed at us, the politicians, who give political direction to parliament. in 1999, i was elected in the netherlands with a very low turnout of just 29%. the main reason why people did not go and vote in the european elections was that they did not have faith in the eu institutions. this is bad in itself, but it is also a great danger to european integration because if people do not have faith in the institutions it is very unlikely that they will support further steps in european integration. my mission for the last five years has been to try to reform the institutions to make them more legitimate and credible in the eyes of our citizens. we have come a long way, in particular with regard to the european commission. here i would like to pay tribute to commissioner schreyer and her colleagues who have done a great job over the last five years, again in the face of very difficult challenges. parliament has made progress. people who say that this institution is just a 'gravy train' are wrong. we have made excellent progress in modernising the institution, in modernising the administration and even the rules governing members. but two big eyesores remain. one is our system of expenses, which is still not based on the actual costs incurred. this system is indefensible to the outside world. no matter how big the differences in salary between meps from different countries, and no matter how unfair that is – especially when the new member states come in – we cannot continue to justify this system. the vote tomorrow will be an opportunity for this house to show that we are in touch with the real world, that we are prepared to put our own house in order and to clean up our act. the second question concerns strasbourg. this is a beautiful assembly and an even more beautiful city, but we should not meet here for only four days per week. the commission and the council are based in brussels. if we are to be a credible democratic assembly, defending the interests of the citizens of europe, then we should be where the other powerful institutions are – with the council and the commission. it was natural to come to strasbourg when this parliament was still a part-time parliament, when the memories of the second world war were still fresh and we needed a symbol of reconciliation. but today europe's citizens are not looking for signs of reconciliation between france and germany. i do not believe that anyone doubts those two countries get on together – perhaps a little too well at times! the citizens are looking for efficient, modern institutions that are capable of managing european integration and the policies we have agreed together. without a doubt, the time is right for a move to brussels. clearly we must find a purpose for strasbourg. it has been built on european institutions and we must give them something in return. we have suggested the idea of the first european university. the buildings would be perfect for that. another suggestion is to let the european council meet here rather than in brussels. these are the key issues that we need to address. i hope that tomorrow we will also give president cox a mandate to go to the intergovernmental conference and say that we need to change the treaty in this respect. we need to give parliament the right to decide its own seat. today a number of meps held a press conference organised by the campaign for parliamentary reform. we signed a reform pledge which commits the signatories to the reform of our expenses system and to work for a single seat for parliament in brussels. i hope that when we vote tomorrow we will all sign this pledge by voting for the amendments that have been tabled by a number of groups. i am grateful to them for having done so.
president. - since there is so little time, two very brief questions. firstly, the reservations of the british and dutch governments have been mentioned. i know the persuasiveness of mr patten and mr verheugen, so i assume they are also listened to in the hague and london. can i still assume that there will be no negotiations with croatia until the stabilisation and association agreement has been ratified? i would like to put this question to the commission just to be sure. secondly, i am glad that the lead prosecutor, mrs del ponte, is positive now, but i think it is important that she remains positive in the future. is the commission prepared to recommend that this very specific tribunal, the lead prosecutor herself, should continue to be involved in monitoring croatia's cooperation with this tribunal in the future?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to thank her in advance for the openness with which she has met this parliament over the years. as regards the reporting for the agencies, which i am responsible for, i can only say that, on the basis of the information i have at present, there is no reason to refuse to grant discharge to the agencies. of course, this does not mean that there is nothing to improve. we have noted a number of issues in the agencies over the past year which may need more attention. firstly, it is their personnel policy. we want more transparency in this area in general. how are people recruited and how do they get promoted? there are indications that this is different from the commission, whereas these people, once they are officials in an agency, have the same rights and duties as commission officials. we think that this should be rectified as much as possible. we also believe that olaf has every right to intervene in any problems that may arise in agencies. finally, we think that the commission's internal audit service should pay more attention to what is happening in the agencies. so far, this department has had neither the time nor the inclination to intervene. we think that this must happen in the future. some agencies have their own revenue and there is a problem with carryovers from one financial year to another. agencies may have their own revenue but, according to the rules of the financial regulation, they may not use it in the following financial year. for one agency, the london agency, a solution has been found. we believe that this solution should also apply to the other agencies. in addition, we would generally encourage agencies to generate more of their own revenue where possible, so that it is cheaper for the budget. i would also like to say something about the other agencies, but in a personal capacity and therefore no longer as rapporteur. we support mr bayona's decision to grant discharge to the commission. i can almost repeat the comments made last year and the years before that. it remains extremely unsatisfactory that there is no positive declaration of reliability by the court of auditors. everything must be done to obtain it. we can only conclude that if we were to refuse to grant discharge at this time, it would not serve any good purpose, because the political consequences of it are not in the interests of europe at the moment. i would also like to say a few words about the eurostat affair. there has already been a statement from the commission this afternoon. as far as i am concerned, that explanation is not sufficient. i have not heard anything in this statement from the commission about the essence of political responsibility. we heard mr prodi say when he became president of the commission that there would be political responsibility. we think that the commission is not giving enough substance to this. a commissioner is responsible for the task assigned to him and must be accountable for it. if something goes wrong, he or she has to take the fall for it. we regret that three months ago, following the kasaka follow-up report on the 2001 discharge, an amendment by the liberals was adopted by only one vote. in this amendment we said that we regretted that commissioner solbes had not taken political responsibility from day one. it is obvious that the atmosphere in this house is different now, given the many amendments i see on the bayona report. i can only say that the resistance of the large groups in this parliament was not as strong two or three months ago as it is now. in view of the hearings for the new commission at the end of the year, one of the important points we must emphasize is the individual responsibility of the commissioners for the implementation of the budget. if we make every official in the commission responsible for his own area of work, then surely the commissioners should be too.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: it concerns a number of agencies that we have looked at and it concerns in particular the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao. i was extremely surprised when i read the court of auditors' report, because the court of auditors accuses this agency of having transferred far too much. further research showed that this was linked to a sme programme which we had decided to introduce here in parliament. it took some time to agree with the commission on where to implement this programme, but it was finally decided to host it at the agency in bilbao. of course, this is not the fault of the agency in bilbao, but the court of auditors has a very negative opinion on this. of course, she could have easily checked all that. you know, sometimes you wonder, - is that right? - yeah. we all knew it here and the rapporteur, mr mulder, has also said it in his final report, although less sharply than i do. it would be good if the court of auditors did not just look at the first level, but went a little deeper. that is my view on this matter, but otherwise there are no problems with the agencies with which we are dealing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there is still a problem with this, and that is that member states always overestimate how much they can take from the structural funds. that leads to an unbalanced budget and that leads to non-spending at the end of the year. this is particularly true at the beginning of a period. i think the commission should be a little less naive in this respect. so far, when a new period has begun, we have received virtually nothing from the ground in the first year. of course, it would be nice if this were to improve in the future. that point should be better regulated in future than it is now, otherwise it means that history is never learned.
mr president, this parliament had just given the commission a discharge for 2001 last year when the eurostat affair came to light. that confirmed the position taken by my group that a delay in the discharge was necessary. the commission still refuses to take responsibility for the fraud at eurostat, as we have seen today. this shows the commission's arrogant and contemptuous attitude towards parliament and the citizens, whose taxpayers' money is at stake. a second example of maladministration concerns the improperly organised recovery of sums wrongly paid. it is truly shocking that the commission is still paying out money to the member states, knowing that the control and management systems are not in order in 15% of cases. when will the commission stop this and suspend part of the payment? when will the commission have a complete and sound register of debtors in its books? so far, she's been moping with the faucet open. i would ask the commission, mr president, to promise that it will submit to parliament before 1 may next, within 14 days, an evaluation of the aid to the lessfavoured areas, irrespective of whether all the member states have complied with their obligation to provide information. it is then immediately clear which member states need special attention and we can have our colleagues in the national parliaments put pressure on their governments. there's a lot wrong with those problem areas. the validity of the classification is questionable and the set of indicators effectively gives member states carte blanche. farmers working in similar conditions receive unequal compensation and so on. there's enough work in store for you and your successors to make this right. finally, i would ask the commissioner to give a clear answer to the proposal to create a separate directorate-general for accounting and anti-fraud from 2005 onwards, so as to put an end to the confusion of functions in the current dg budget.
the rapporteur. thank you, mr president, thank you, mr commissioner, for your detailed explanation. we all agree that terrorists must be fought. but that should not be a license for things that we cannot account for in the end. i have to tell you, commissioner, you didn't convince me tonight. first of all, you said that you were concerned about the transfer through the customs office. the commission currently refers to transfers to other public authorities, including foreign public authorities, in recital 20 of the decision. we have heard for the first time in the last few days that you are concerned about the way this has been handled. a few months ago you asked parliament for an adequacy finding. in the meantime, we have been informed by mr bolkestein and by you that this adequacy finding is still not in fact there. then there is the question of the agreement itself. parliament is calling for a genuine international agreement. parliament called for non-discrimination between eu citizens in the use of data. parliament called for equivalence in the united states and for efficient, independent remedies for incorrect data and for a clear legal process for eu citizens who get into trouble. you said there was a reciprocity. the commissioner, article 6 of the agreement states that, as far as is feasible and on the basis of strict reciprocity, the cooperation of airlines under his jurisdiction will be actively promoted. that's not reciprocal. article 1 tells us what we have to do. cbp shall have electronic access to pnr data in the booking and departure systems of air carriers located in the territory of the member states of the european community. such shall be strictly in accordance with the decision and for as long as the decision is in force. we are thus legalising what we have not wanted all along, and that is the reason why parliament is now calling for a real agreement, which has parliament's consent. you say that this is not necessary, because the legal basis chosen by the council is directive 1995/45 and this agreement would not change the substance of the directive. how can you say that when article 2 of the agreement stipulates that everything will be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the united states? i think we are introducing legislation from the united states. this isn't a real deal. this is an agreement of which mr bolkestein says that many things are still unresolved. i have not yet mentioned the connection between this agreement and caps ii, but the undertakings also state that this agreement will in fact be linked to the new advanced caps ii system in the united states. the united states congress has said that it is not good and has sent it back to the appropriate bodies. long story short, the way this deal was done is not right. mr bolkestein promised in september that parliament would be treated as a full partner. unfortunately, he did not keep that promise. in fact, the european commission and the council have deliberately tried to sideline the european parliament. the treaty required parliament's assent, but you did not choose this. that is why i have made a strong case in parliament and recommended to mr cox, through the legal affairs committee, that article 300 (6) of the treaty be invoked to have this agreement examined by the court of justice of the european communities. that is the only way we can do anything about this agreement and protect our citizens adequately. now they are not adequately protected. i am extremely sorry to hear that. i would have liked to see you withdraw the agreement. i share your view that terrorism is terrible, but to use all of this as a license to trample on our legislation and give americans access to our data without legal protection, because the us constitution and the privacy act do not apply to european citizens, is going too far. i urge you once again to withdraw this agreement and to come to parliament with a real agreement.
mr president, the question is simple. is the agreement in order and was the european commission authorized to conclude it? my group wants a legal opinion on this. the european commission cannot oppose this, even if it is convinced that everything is ok. commissioner patten just said that the agreement is better than nothing. i don't agree with that. the european commission has been given some restrictions, but the agreement still contains too much data and it is kept for an absurdly long time. privacy is not sacred, but violations must be proportionate. i therefore think that we should continue negotiations with the united states. if the united states does not want that, we simply do not give that information. of course, the united states will ask passengers at airports for this information, but then citizens will see immediately how much information is involved and i think that this is how you organize resistance from a different angle. i think that's very important. it is a matter of political will to ensure that our own european laws are respected. i think it is the duty of the european commission to ensure that they are monitored. (applause from the left)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i took on the task of becoming rapporteur for this report, i was well aware that it would not be an easy task. i have therefore applied a number of tests which i believe should be applied in such a difficult situation. we have, for example, organised a hearing earlier this year in which many experts spoke and gave their views on freedom of expression and protection of pluralism. in addition, the institute for the media in düsseldorf, a highly respected institute, has been asked to carry out a survey in all the countries of europe. i believe that this is a study which should have been carried out by the european commission a long time ago. this study will be available to the european commission in due course. i spoke to a lot of experts, and all of them, whether they represented the dome of journalists, public media or commercial media, appreciated my recommendations. i have also made a series of recommendations to promote pluralism in europe. one of these recommendations concerns the definition of minimum conditions throughout the european union to ensure that public service broadcasters are independent and free from government interference, as recommended by the council of europe. other recommendations concern rules on transparency of media ownership, in particular cross-border ownership, and disclosure of information on significant media interests. i also ask for an examination of the need to include a pluralism test in the merger regulation and to lower thresholds for media concentrations, as well as the need to include provisions on this in national rules. i'm not going to list all my recommendations here. i only know that there are many in europe who are waiting for an update of the commission's green paper and for proposals to clarify its role in the field of freedom of expression. it is of the utmost importance in a democracy that pluralism be respected. i have expressed a number of concerns on the basis of all the discussions i have had and on the basis of the report by the institute for the media, and one of those concerns is indeed italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. this mandate has been given to me by the conference of presidents. it was therefore my duty to pay particular attention to italy on the basis of a petition and at the request of the conference of presidents. many of my colleagues have reinforced the attention i had already given to italy. does this report now address matters that cannot be dealt with? mr president, i do not think so. facts are presented on the basis of which we say to the european commission: do you not have a moral duty to develop policies regarding media pluralism? i believe that the commission has that duty. i have also noted in my opinions that we can make more demands on public media than on commercial media in terms of pluralism. as rapporteur, i am well aware that the market is doing its job and i have no objection to that. the question is whether the pluriformity is threatened by concentration or otherwise, because certain media are too much in one hand. that's not new, commissioner. we do this in all kinds of policy areas. it is one of our internal market tasks to ensure that excessive concentrations do not occur. all i ask is that freedom of expression be guaranteed, for the sake of a good democracy. i am very sorry that certain members who have not been involved in the debate from the start have now suddenly tabled a great many amendments to the report. i do not think that this report deserves that, i did not expect it and i do not think it is democratic.
president. - mr ceyhun's report deals with a very important subject, drug policy, and in particular with the agency, the observatory, in lisbon. my group considers this a very useful instrument, which helps it to base its policy on facts. given the politicization of all talk about drugs, and from the netherlands this politicization is very convincing, we really cannot miss such a centre any more. the centre's task, as the commissioner has just said, is to collect, standardise, analyse and compare data. i am surprised that a number of amendments now seek to extend this task to the evaluation of member states' policies. but that is not the place for a scientific and technical bureau or agency, which is far from political either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my group's view, it is unacceptable that this policy should be technicalised, that this political task should be delegated. apart from this main objection, which will ultimately determine our vote on the report, we have a few other comments. we do not think that members of this parliament should be on the centre's board of directors, that is a state monstrosity. we are much more pleased with two representatives appointed by us, who are not members, as is the case now, and this solution has also worked very well. we do not want to be restricted in our supervisory role by being on the board of directors ourselves. that's not possible. we also welcome good contact with the director, who must keep us regularly informed of the progress of the centre. it is not necessary that they be our representatives, although we can of course hold them to account. unlike the rapporteur, we think that a body such as an executive board, which prepares the meetings of the executive board, is a good idea. with this comment the european people's party is following a path already taken. i assume that the council and the commission also understand that a political mandate is something different from an official mandate. the other amendments tabled by our esteemed rapporteur are ones which my group can wholeheartedly support. finally, i would also like to commend commissioner vitorino, who is responsible for this matter, for the commitment he has shown over the past few years.
- mr president, the extremely somber statement by commissioner verheugen is particularly shocking to us all, because we are on the verge of finding a solution through the annan plan. we used to think that the slogan 'the solution is not a solution' could be attributed exclusively to mr denktash. but now we have to note that this slogan is also used by the prime minister of the greek cypriot republic. that is of course impossible to accept. in personal talks with mr papadopoulos and through other signals, i have always had the unpleasant feeling that we were being cheated, that there was no real willingness to go to the extreme to find a solution for cyprus. the basis for the accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union is the assumption that the republic of cyprus would do its utmost to reach a solution and that it would not fail to do so. it seems as if there is a suspicion that the fraud sector can also become a member of the european union. that is unacceptable. we also heard later that in particular issues which are part of the political criteria of copenhagen, such as freedom of the press and access to the media, are closed not only to our commissioner verheugen and to foreigners, but also to the opposition parties themselves. we blame other countries for this and say: we're stopping negotiations with you. we have done this with romania, for example. so now we are on the eve of the accession of a new member state which has achieved it on the basis of fraud. i think we absolutely cannot accept that. it shows a lack of respect for the european union. we have seen that in the past with slovakia, which said: you're interfering in internal affairs. now, membership of the european union means that we are firmly involved in each other's internal affairs. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is not a party to the peace process.
- mr president, once again many fine words have been spoken about relations between europe and the united states. however, i remain a little skeptical when i look at the reality. relations between europe and the united states have been better. the us government regularly gives its transatlantic partners a hard time. the us policy is characterized by unilateralism and changing coalitions. iraq has proved to be a mushrooming splinter and a major role for the un in that country still seems a long way off. earlier this morning, there was talk of the middle east. president bush's support for prime minister sharon and his unilateral policies has rightly been badly received here. the eu is clearly not a serious partner for the us on this issue. no one is looking for a real break between the united states and the european union. we have a lot in common and we could do more together in the world. perhaps things will get better under a new american administration, but in my view the trends are deeper. we are here today to discuss an agenda for transatlantic dialogue. such a dialogue is more necessary than ever, but it must be an open dialogue and not one in which one side only says things and little is heard. we must not, above all, try to hide the differences between us and the americans. in the field of international security, we see a number of priorities, including iraq and what we can learn from it. first of all, of course, that such a thing should never happen again. we must also return to a full role for the united nations, which must be given political leadership as soon as possible in the reconstruction of the country. we must also continue to work together to resolve the middle east conflict, and stick to the road map. if president bush does not become much more critical of prime minister sharon's policy of the established facts - i mention the security wall, gaza and the killing of hamas leaders - cooperation with the eu is unlikely to achieve much. we also want an effective response to international terrorism, but not only on american terms. what we want is priority for a multilateral approach to international problems. preventive engagement, as javier solana calls it, rather than preemptive wars. we want to strengthen the un and, above all, the international legal order. we must therefore continue to support the work of the international criminal court and the support that the european union has always given to it. what we also want is a serious approach to disarmament initiatives. we must discuss all these issues with the americans, but we must also remain firm in our own strength. pragmatic, but we're pursuing our own goals. where the americans, the united states, emphasize military supremacy, we see the european union as a role reserved for it as, say, a civilian superpower.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is not a yes or no agreement. parliament has always said that there must be an agreement. however, what we want is an agreement which comes into being with the consent of parliament, as promised to us by mr bolkestein in september last year. we ask the court of justice to do this and to ensure that we can exercise our rights so that we can close down parts of the agreement - i will mention only one, namely the transfer of data by the united states to third countries - if we feel that they cannot do so at the moment. i hope therefore that parliament will continue to follow the line laid down. (applause from the left)
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i commend you on your wisdom. having listened to all the debate, i think it would be an excellent idea to vote on my original report. it contains enough to be thoroughly debated in parliament and then perhaps some of the pain will be gone. so i think that it is an excellent idea to put the original report to the vote.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in view of the fact that the agreement is before the court of justice, it seems to me that it would be better not to put this report to the vote at this stage but to await the court's answer. i hope the commission and the council will do the same. so my proposal is: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the report, but will refer it back to committee pending the opinion of the court of justice.
rapporteur. – mr president, there is a misunderstanding here. mr bourlanges is referring to the explanatory statement – not to a paragraph in the resolution – and, as you know, the explanatory statement is not included in the final text adopted by plenary.
rapporteur. – mr president, we did not win the vote against strasbourg and i admit defeat on this issue for the time being. on the second issue, we voted by a very large majority to ask for the introduction as soon as possible of the reforms of the expenses system adopted by the bureau last year. would you ask the president to report back to the house as soon as possible as to when he intends to ask the bureau to adopt those rules?
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) at the first reading of the debate on 10 march i expressed my rejection of the plan. the second reading now sets out, without a vote on the overall scale, an excessively long list of motorways, airports, bridges and tunnels as investment requirements for the eu. it will lead to a long-term co-financing plan and probably also make it possible to circumvent the requirement of environmental impact assessments. the package also reveals the desire to further neglect the good railway network in eastern europe by building a large number of motorways. i am opposed to the idea conceived by the berlusconi government in italy that tax revenues should be spent mainly on infrastructure and other large public works rather than on public services, environmental protection and social security. we don't have time for a serious debate today. my group will try to get the plans for a bridge across the strait of messina dropped, because it is unrealistic because of earthquakes and wind gusts, because the bridge is superfluous because of the deficiencies in the interconnected railway network, and because the construction of the bridge mainly serves the interests of the mafia. i also support all the green amendments. the rejection of all these amendments will be a heavy burden for europe and an unnecessary attack on the environment for many years to come.
in the case of the european parliament, the european council has already taken a decision on the future of the european union. today, the support for this can be measured in the 1999-2004 parliamentary term, which is about to end. on a proposal from the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, a majority of 31 voted against moving all meetings to brussels. the cost of this rejection amounts to eur 185 million per year and rises to eur 203 million after enlargement. the vote did not include the proposal to reimburse only travel expenses actually incurred, as a more vague proposal was adopted only after an examination of travel expenses. my group made two proposals to limit the period during which the attendance list can be signed. a proposal to limit it to regular meeting times was rejected by 99 votes to 355, and a proposal to abolish the possibility of signing it on days when there are no meetings was rejected by 151 votes to 320. only the recently introduced option of additional taxi charges was rejected by 351 votes to 146. it is an incredibly poor harvest so far in the fight to limit parliament's unnecessary expenditure. in these circumstances it is good that the council did not authorize the recent wage increase.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) for 40 years the greek cypriots have insisted that their island should be reunited. it was unacceptable to the turkish cypriot minority in the north of the island, because they feared that they would become a disadvantaged minority in their own country. in the meantime, a majority of turkish cypriots are likely to support reunification and reconciliation on the basis of the plan of the un secretary-general. the plan proposes a belgian model of state, a federation of two federal states with a single language. it now seems that a majority of the greek-speaking population will vote against the 24th of april, as they want more rights for themselves and fewer for the turkish-speaking minority. it wants to strengthen the unilateral condition that cyprus should become a greek-speaking united state in which individual turks are allowed to reside. under these conditions, no agreement will ever be reached between the two nations, and the barbed-wire border separation will remain forever. the commissioner, like most groups, now feels deceived, and rightly so. i warned against this on 5 september 2001, when we discussed the poos report on the accession of cyprus to the european union. by initially only including the greek-speaking part of the eu, the turks could be forced to choose between poverty outside the eu or subjugation in the eu member state of cyprus. after the failed referendum, we must look for another way of including the turkish-speaking part of the eu if it so wishes.
- mr president, i voted for the sterckx report because it is a good report. i said that in the debate yesterday. however, this report wrongly gives the european people a feeling of security. yesterday i learned that the action plan of the european maritime safety agency cannot be implemented for budgetary and technical reasons. this means that there is a qualitative and quantitative lack of capacity on european coasts to guarantee the safety of citizens. this means that all the work we have done has come to a disappointing end, all the more so since we also know that the member states do not want to participate in the introduction of criminal sanctions. i am sorry that what we have all proposed here is of little substance, but it did not lead me to think that i should vote against the report. i think, however, that in order to clarify responsibilities, it is necessary to have this recorded in the minutes of parliament.
the spanish government, which was responsible for the disaster of the tanker prestige and the fuel oil on the spanish, french and portuguese coasts, has now been voted out of office by the electorate. to prevent possible oil pollution in a spanish port, the tanker's captain was ordered to leave the coast and eventually sink the ship in open water. as a result, the disaster became much worse. of the 77,000 tonnes of crude oil on board, 43,000 tonnes have been salvaged and it is estimated that 14,000 tonnes are still on board. this means that 20,000 tonnes have disappeared into the sea and that the galician coast is contaminated in the long term. the report is right to criticise the netherlands and belgium for seemingly not considering the use of port state control and classification society inspection of ships as a matter of urgency. proposals have been made for the designation of emergency ports, compulsory insurance cover to enable shipowners to be compensated for damage and expenses, the use of dispatchers to trace missing containers and stricter compliance with current environmental and safety rules. i can support these proposals. it is unfortunate that a european coast guard service, which is being planned, should not only be used for the joint protection of the environment, safety and compliance with fishing restrictions, but is also directly linked to the hunt for immigrants and possible terrorists and the further building of a european superstate.
- mr president, of course there are many things that bind europe and the united states together and of course there is the need for a dialogue between europe and the united states, because neither of them can solve the world's problems alone. but let there be no misunderstanding that this is a dialogue between partners with fundamentally different views on a number of crucial issues. i'll name a few. the core activity of europe's security strategy is conflict prevention and preventive engagement. a crucial part of the bush strategy is armed preemptive strikes. the european union's objective is to strengthen the united nations. the united states' objective is multilateralism à la carte. through the un if it can and if it suits washington and not through the un if it doesn't. the european union is committed to preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. that is officially the policy of the united states, but at the same time friendly regimes, such as israel in palestine, are being kept in the dark, while the united states itself continues to develop so-called mini nukes. the european union supports the international criminal court in order to strengthen international law. the united states is doing its utmost to make life as difficult as possible for the icc. the european union is a civilian superpower, mr president, or rather it could be if it concentrated more on strengthening the areas in which it is or could be good. i call them: the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. the united states has learned the hard way in iraq that it cannot solve the problems of dictatorial regimes and terrorism on its own without the help of the united nations and europe. that is true, let there be no misunderstanding, also for the european union. therefore, we believe that the best policy to follow is: europe must cooperate with the united states whenever possible, but must not shy away from taking countermeasures against the united states if necessary. not because idealistic politicians think so, but because our citizens expect europe to speak with one voice and act with self-consciousness to rein in the united states when necessary.
- mr. president, the emergency in iraq is still high. that message was relayed to me by telephone from baghdad on monday night. my iraqi informant is directly involved in the reconstruction of his homeland - the ministry of education, not insignificant - a country ruined in many ways by two currents. that's iraq. he was not soft in his criticism of the united states and the european union. if the transatlantic partners do not finally join forces militarily and economically to secure a better future for iraq, they will have to pay for it themselves. what does this urgent appeal from baghdad mean in practical terms? the pacification of the two-stream country by nato, preferably under a un mandate, and a generous marshall plan to neutralize the suction power of radical groups. i personally would like to support this appeal to the council and the commission wholeheartedly. only in this way will the european union prove that it is a solid partner of the united states. only in this way will the european institutions prove that they are willing to take political responsibility for a world which seems to be ripe for the forces of ultimate evil, terrorists who do not care about human life. the lives of iraqi compatriots or fellow believers are no more important than the lives of spaniards. a house divided against itself, the bible says, will not stand. that is true today, a fortiori, of the european union itself.
- mr president, will we ever reach the level of civilization where large-scale human rights violations are a thing of the past? the main cause of such violations is usually the desire to retain or even to seize power at any cost. the barbaric practices of hatred for purely religious or ethnic reasons are also far from being eradicated. on the contrary, the indiscriminate blowing up of innocent civilians is increasing by the day. this week we commemorate the massacre in rwanda. the world community is collectively ashamed of its own passivity. is this for real? have we really drawn the right conclusions? is the european union's approach to human rights really as difficult in practice as the solemn declarations suggest? are we really prepared to give less weight to economic and strategic interests than to human rights? unfortunately, that is still not the case. large-scale violence, torture, structural violations such as abuse of women, and the caste system are still the reality of everyday life. mrs de keyser happily agrees with the pleas in my report last year to make the human rights dialogue with partner countries less open-ended and better structured. the question is to what extent has this been demonstrated in practice? since my report, cooperation with the council has improved significantly in a number of areas. i hope that the dutch presidency will continue to shape the strengthening of this relationship with our parliament. we are doing well to have the human rights report published at a fixed time each year so that it can give an opinion on the council's report and also on the findings of the un commission on human rights. our parliament should also focus more systematically on the follow-up of the human rights violations we have identified. the background to the de keyser report is unfortunate. nevertheless, my group supports the content, including the rights of the disabled and reproductive health. it is against every fundamental sense of justice that someone dies because of a lack of medical care. our christian-democratic friends should agree with that, even if it is a question of non-enforceable rights. finally, i would like to point out once again the increasing abuse of religions for political purposes and radicalism. given the seriousness of the threat and the reality of madrid, i repeat my plea from last year that the european union must map the problem in all its dimensions and devise a strategy to prevent this religious extremism. i also think it is high time that the euromed foundation, which was decided in valencia in 2002, finally got off the ground. the european union is proud to call itself a community of values. this means that our human rights policy must be less liberal and that means also a commitment to work towards a level of civilization where large-scale human rights violations no longer occur.
mr president, we have a wonderful prospect of a flourishing railway. unfortunately, the day-to-day reality is far from that. to bring the high expectations within reach, a strong european stimulus is vital. we are therefore pleased with the progress made under the leadership of our colleagues ainardi, savary, jarzembowski and sterckx. each of them has contributed to the development and expansion of a sound legal framework. within this framework, european railways can develop as competitive freight transport operators in the coming years. a major focus was on passenger transport. i agree with the current views. passenger transport is a very different market from freight transport and the concept for one form is therefore not seamlessly applicable to the other. a controlled approach to the development of this market is therefore appropriate. mr president, the council and parliament have spoken. it is now up to the sector to take the glove. i told you. (applause from the left)
the rapporteur. president, commissioner, this is a rather historic moment, because it is wednesday evening and this is the last report to be debated this evening. it will also be my last report in this house, because i am retiring after ten years. the importance of the lisbon process was recently reiterated at the brussels summit. if we are to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based society in the world by 2010, there is of course a lot of work to be done. as we have already seen in e-europe 2005, the successful implementation of broadband access depends to a large extent on the availability of e-content. you can have broadband, but if you don't have it, citizens don't care. the same applies to advanced services for mobile phone users, and i am referring to, for example, the third generation. mr president, i was in china a few weeks ago and i noticed that the chinese, along with the japanese and south koreans, are already concerned about the fourth generation of mobile telephony. this means that europe is also falling further behind in the field of third generation, as shown by nokia's figures. so one could say that the report on e-content is an extremely important report because it stimulates increased productivity and innovation, better information products and services, it has a positive impact on e-government, an area where we are also still far behind, and it leads to more projects in the field of e-health, e-business and e-learning. i am therefore glad that the commissioner is here tonight. the current commission proposal for e-content+ identifies the obstacles, particularly in the areas of public interest in europe, as well as those areas where the market is lacking adequate investment. the market cannot do everything, and governments have a legitimate role to play. the present proposal creates conditions for better access to and use of digital content and, where appropriate, for a high economic return of services based on access to and reuse of digital content. the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has tabled some 16 amendments to the european commission's proposal. we want to ensure that the report focuses on the public sector, that it takes account of the financial perspective after 2007, that a budget of eur 55 million is set aside for the years 2005 and 2006, and that the total budget is eur 163 million. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my shadow rapporteurs, mrs neena gill and mrs elly plooij-van gorsel, for the excellent cooperation i have had with them. it seemed to be a wonderful party, because the council, with whom we were consulting, was also interested in one reading, so that we would not be delayed. we started with 163 million euros. the council, and in particular the irish presidency, pretended that a deal was within reach if we were to go back to 145 million. as good parliamentarians we thought that we would eventually come to an amount of somewhere in the region of 150 million. however, the irish presidency came back into the informal trialogue with the announcement that it could not go above 120 million and added that if we pushed a little, we might be able to get to 138 million. we have indicated that this was not enough for us and that it should be at least 140 million. we have also asked the council presidency to state in writing that it has therefore agreed to 140 million euro. the deal closed at 1:30 this afternoon. it is typical of the council that i then received the following message at five minutes past eleven. i quote, mr president, that is good for history. " however, you ask for a written position from the council in favour of a financial amount of one hundred and forty million euros. on the basis of the coreper discussion this morning, this is not possible as there remains a clear blocking minority at one hundred thirty million euros. however, my own estimate, and that is as the chairman of coreper i and based on the contacts with a number of key delegations at and around the meeting, is that if the european parliament were, through its vote tomorrow, to take a position for an amount higher than one hundred and thirty million, it may very likely prove possible ultimately to gather a sufficient majority in the council for that". mr president, this is the third time we have received the same message from the council, and each time we say to the council: deliver it, the council says he can't. with so much, let me say, uncertainty in the council, we cannot but conclude that we will soon be campaigning for elections. that we will say to the citizens: the council is making great headlines in brussels when it comes to the lisbon process, but when it comes to delivering, also in terms of financial resources to achieve the lisbon process, the council says no way, the council is not at home and leaves us empty-handed. i find it extremely sad that we, who want to have the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, are treated in this way by the council as a parliament. i'm glad there's going to be campaigns. it is in any case a motivation for me to join in and to denounce this ambivalence of the council. better days are ahead.
unfortunately, mr president, the outcome of yesterday's hearing was not a surprise. those who have been there in recent years, in recent months, have seen with their own eyes that this process was a sham. there was no interest on the part of the judges, let alone the public prosecutor, to critically examine the old 1994 testimony once again. in this trial, too, the defense was not given any opportunity to call new witnesses who would like to make opposing noises. this was a copy of a bad trial, and the result of a bad trial is a bad verdict. but let me be clear: this says less about the government's reformist spirit than it does about the stubborn resistance of conservatives. these judges, the judges of yesterday, wanted to show who's boss. their answer is clear: we are the ones who are in charge, not the european parliament or the european commission in brussels, not the government in ankara, but we are the ones who decide what happens in this case. i think the only way for the government to limit the damage - which it has undeniably suffered in connection with its request to start negotiations in december - is to show that this is an exception to the rule. that rule must remain: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. two examples. there has already been talk of plans, i emphasize the plans, to abolish the state security courts. i would urge the government to act quickly, to stop delaying and to ensure that these courts are actually abolished by december. the second example, which is of course very symbolic in this case, is the use of the kurdish language, which is the reason for this whole issue. on paper, again on paper, the use of this language is possible, but in practice there are still very many administrative obstacles. it is therefore very important that by the end of this year the use of the kurdish language in education and the media is actually possible. finally, mr president, for those who have concluded that negotiations should not be started on the basis of this case alone, i would like to recall the words of mrs zana herself. in a letter to the european parliament, she said: i would rather be in prison in a country that is negotiating with the european union than be free in a country that has been turned away by europe.
i would like to add my support to the beautiful rhetoric of mr lagendijk. i would prefer that mrs leyla zana should live free in a country that is negotiating with the european union. that's actually the only option i find acceptable. it is a very strange thing, in fact, that someone has been in prison for so long and has been in possession of the sakharov prize for almost as long. that is an extraordinary schizophrenic condition. it is also very strange that the european union has continued for so long with business as usual. we cannot continue to do business as usual in this way. we will have to be more difficult, we will have to exert more pressure so that this pressure can be passed on to the opposing forces in turkey. we are still dealing with a strong influence of the old state philosophy, the old type of kemalism, which was also expressed in this criminal trial. the people responsible for this are themselves the bearers of that old philosophy and naturally come back to the same conclusion. i agree with the colleagues who have spoken on this before that it is a special case that the government, and we must admit this, has done its best and sometimes drastically changed the law. in particular, the possibility of reopening proceedings is provided by the government. the possibility of releasing a person is also provided by the government, but it is not used. that legislation is simply not being used or not being used in an appropriate way. that is something which i think we must also convince our own government leaders of. it's not just some symptoms, like the severe case of leyla zana and the hair. it is a consequence of a deeper issue and we must discuss it with turkey. i also think it is extremely important to try to change the way of thinking in the contacts between judges and prosecutors from the european union and their turkish colleagues, because it is a way of thinking that leads to constantly getting into traffic jams, that leads to nationalistic hatred against minorities who are feared to be a threat to the integrity of the state. mr president, for this reason i think we must insist strongly on using the existing possibilities to release mrs leyla zana and others who are in prison for similar so-called offences, pending a change in the whole judicial process.
madam president, last tuesday mr trichet, president of the european central bank, gave a lecture in rotterdam on the european economy. he said he was extremely concerned about the slow recovery in economic growth. i share your concern, because recovery is going to take too long and it's going to take too long to get there. well, waiting is not the right attitude to promote that recovery. activity is required, but that is what is lacking at the moment. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would urge the member states to finally put aside their differences and take action. countries like china and india have little chance of outstripping us. activity will require effort and political sacrifice, but waiting any longer is not justified.
mr president, i would like to make a few comments. the procedure followed so far, because it has created the necessary difficulties. i would also like to say a few words about lisbon, about mr kok's report on the quality of work, about china and india and finally about the amendments. as regards the procedure, i think that this is the second or third time that we have found ourselves, especially as regards the adoption of the employment guidelines, in a procedure in which we have little time. this leads to conflicts between the member states, beyond the usual political differences, over how the directives should be interpreted, how they should be amended, what should be changed, etc. i suggest we do it differently next year. that is an opinion to the incoming presidencies of the council and to the commission. it is necessary to ensure that parliament is given the opportunity to do what it is entitled to do under the treaty, namely to comment in a correct way, so that we do not have to vote down a whole bunch of amendments which are not, let us say, in the correct procedural order. i also wonder whether the three-year procedure we have chosen is wise. in view of the rapid developments in the economy and the fact that the commission has had to adjust its optimistic views in a very short time and has had to realise that things are not going as well as they were thought, i think we should have the room to adjust these guidelines, both economic and employment guidelines, on some important points. i would also point out that there is a serious mistake in the treaty. that's one way of putting it. in fact, the employment guidelines are by definition subordinate to the economic guidelines. that is something we do not wish. it leads to all kinds of problems, for example with proposals for liberalization, but it also leads to all kinds of other measures being proposed that have their effects. i agree with what a number of speakers before me, mr jonckheer and mr goebbels amongst others, have said on this point. progress on lisbon is weak. that is what our committee has also pointed out. we have achieved little in terms of poverty and the participation of older people and women in the workforce. there is progress, but it is far too little and we really need to review the guidelines. we will have to revise the lisbon agreements in the light of, among other things, economic developments. against this background, the statement in the kok report that we must implement and improve the implementation of the whole is quite plausible. that was also the mandate of the council. i wonder, however, whether that will be enough. the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. but i see in reality that attention is paid to flexibility, not to certainty. the temporary agency workers directive is still blocked by both germany and the uk. the quality of work, which is also one of mr kok's proposals, will not be accepted. in other words, i think that this should be addressed and that we should go back to the proposals of the belgian presidency on quality of work, for example. that was a useful report and it is not just a simple category like job satisfaction that should be looked at. i think we should also look not only at the united states but also at developments in china and india. we are currently facing massive off-shore outsourcing with all its side effects. finally, i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation in the past. i can also tell you that the green group will support the amendments tabled by mrs hermange and probably also the oral amendment tabled by mr bushill-matthews.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) last night i gave mr caudron the opportunity to make his last speech after 15 years as a member of the european parliament, as he is about to retire. he presented the final position of our group on the railway package and made it clear that this liberalisation proposal is appropriate for a very different europe from that which the joint group of the european left wants. in 2000, the commission tried to force member states to privatise all public transport. after the european parliament excluded important parts of urban and regional transport from this experiment on 14 november 2001, the commission has turned its attention to railways. it wants to liberalize not only international freight transport but also domestic passenger transport. in the meantime, we have had some bad experiences in the netherlands. the decision to sell shares in the state-owned railway company nederlandse spoorwegen on the stock exchange allegedly resulted in negligence of the rolling stock and railway infrastructure, delays, labour disputes, etc., and the process has therefore been stopped. it was not done because of a political choice, but because the staff, the passengers and, in time, the politicians learned their lesson. the provision of train services by a competing company, which has since been acquired by the international transport giant connex-vivendi, has also been discontinued. the council has held back similar plans for europe, but they have not yet been removed from the agenda.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in pakistan, parliamentary democracy has never had a fair chance because of the military's interference. every time voters elect a decent government, it is eventually overthrown by the military. former prime minister bhutto was even killed after he was deposed, and his daughter, who was popular as long as she was considered his political heir, was later also removed from power. this military intervention against progressive governments has created a breeding ground for islamic fundamentalism and for groups that want to turn individual populations against each other. these groups have been able to continue their activities legally under military rule. the current president musharraf was considered until a few years ago to be a dangerous general who had seized power in a coup and who wanted to make his country a nuclear power, gave way to a very conservative interpretation of islam and cooperated with the taliban regime in neighbouring afghanistan. but when he first supported the american military intervention in afghanistan, he was suddenly considered an american ally. this proposal gives him the same status in europe. once again, commercial and military interests take precedence over human rights. it is surprising that parliament first approves an agreement with pakistan and then later in the sitting adopts a resolution deploring the lack of human rights.
the netherlands is a significant net contributor to the eu. unfortunately, the reason for this is rarely discussed. firstly, a large proportion of eu imports arrive at the port of rotterdam. the relevant import duties are collected by the dutch customs authorities and then transferred to brussels. the netherlands does not actually benefit from this. another reason is the agreements concluded by mr kok and mr zalm in berlin in 1999. the result of these agreements is that dutch farmers now receive far less from the brussels cashier than before. dutch farmers account for 7% of european agricultural production. in 1999, the netherlands still received 3.5% of the european agricultural budget, but in 2004 this figure has fallen to 2.1%. moreover, the netherlands receives only 1.2% of the rural development funds because the dutch government at the time gave this issue a low priority in the negotiations. the best way to improve the netherlands' position as a net contributor is to ensure that the netherlands receives a greater share of eu agricultural and rural development funds in the future. it is not the hague, after all, but the rural areas of the netherlands that are paying the european bill. the best way for the netherlands to regain its rightful place in the eu is to correct the errors in the berlin agreement. it is much better than to limit expenditure to only 1% of community gdp.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the majority want more money for the structural funds and the cohesion fund. it will keep payments to the richest member states in check, without depriving the currently poorest countries, while giving priority to the new member states, which will have the lowest standard of living for the time being. the idea behind this is that the eu will become more popular if everyone gets more. a union that is generous to all is expected to be perceived positively by public opinion, the broadest sections of society and local authorities. so wherever a project is co-financed by the eu, we still see signs informing us of it. the question whether the money in question will actually be made available is not raised. and certainly not the question of whether these projects, many of which are undoubtedly beneficial, are best carried out through the mediation of european officials and with european money. eu funds can be better used for development aid to help those who are lagging behind. less money and less bureaucracy can produce better results. all other projects should be returned to the member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in july 2003, the commission suspended the activities of the eurostat management as cases of fraud which had been detected some time before continued. at that point i demanded immediate, transparent action. the commission's investigations are useless because they have to keep their findings secret. the only way to prevent future fraud, subversion and nepotism is to give the public the right information and the opportunity to express their opinion. that could be done by a parliamentary inquiry. at the end of september 2003 the members of the committee on budgetary control received a secret report and the commission continues to act as if it had no responsibility in this matter. the person who was first appointed to deal with the matter, commissioner solbes, is now a minister in the new spanish government. everything is being done to avoid a discussion of a vote of no confidence in the commission, which i and others have signed. the deliberate omission to put this matter on the agenda means that this vote of no confidence cannot be taken this week. after 1 may, the number of signatories will fall to less than 10% as a result of the enlargement of the european parliament. the green party chairman has called on his members to undermine this initiative by withdrawing their signatures. the problems of 1999 continue, but the prodi commission ignores them.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information and propaganda media are not misused. if all the media are concentrated in the same hands, we will be in the period when the media had a smaller reach and a monopoly was often created, involving the authorities, a powerful party, the church or a regional publisher. people heard only one view of what was good and what was bad and how society should develop. governments and big business are still trying to achieve it. recently, the previous spanish government tried to blame three major bombings on a separatist movement instead of an international movement because it would be better for them in the elections. in italy, the prime minister controls the commercial company mediaset as owner and the state-run company rai by virtue of his position in the government. the christian democrats are not criticizing this situation and have tried to keep this matter off the agenda by ignoring the problems, dragging the negotiations out and putting forward a huge number of amendments. they are abusing democracy to abolish democracy. i support the rapporteur in her efforts to do something about cable monopolies and to push for the introduction of legislative measures aimed at protecting freedom of expression and dissent in the media.
mr president, i am a signatory to this resolution. good news from castro's cuba, is that possible? yes, and i would like to refer you to the page-long article in the neue zürcher zeitung yesterday on the relentless domestic efforts to bring about a peaceful regime change on the island. the headline of the article spoke for itself: "third run-up to the referendum in cuba". the driving force behind this proposed referendum is oswaldo payá, winner of the sakharov prize of this house. and he's not afraid of the hostility and chicanery of castro and his cronies. payá's main concern is the growing popularity of his initiative. more and more cubans are losing their fear of government repression. in may 2002, payá and his supporters were able to hand over 11,020 signatures to the national parliament for a referendum. at the beginning of october 2003, 14,384 new signatures were added. about half of them are from the period after the wave of arrests in march 2003. there was no response from the muzzled parliament. this does not prevent payá from launching a third petition. the european parliament expressly supports the cuban people who are rejecting the achievements of a democratic state based on the rule of law. the house expects the council, the member states of the union and the commission to show the same support. i very much hope that the committee on foreign affairs will deliver on its intention of a full report on the situation in cuba in the next term. we owe it to the freedom-loving citizens of this island, so attractive to european tourists.
mr president, how can anyone justify invading a church where women, men and children are practicing their religion? when they are called to bow down, and then they are driven to death with axes and knives? thousands of dead, many tens of thousands of refugees, hundreds of burned down churches, fear. the only charge against the victims is that they are christians. this is the horrifying reality that is emerging in central and northern nigeria. the perpetrators are once again, here, muslim extremists. not just from nigeria itself, but supplemented by muslim mercenaries from chad and niger. in fact, money has been pouring in from saudi arabia to finance these kinds of unscrupulous murders. what do you want me to do? in this resolution i urge the nigerian authorities to take immediate and effective measures to protect their fellow citizens, especially christians, whose suffering is being prolonged by the continuing attacks. the european union must also take measures to put an end to this muslim terrorism, including preventive action if necessary. and measures to repeal the sharia law that was imposed in 12 states. if the government does not consistently address the violence, there is a legitimate fear that nigeria will become the scene of a religious war. i call on the council and the commission to follow this matter closely and to urge the nigerian authorities to take effective action.
mr president, i couldn't believe my eyes when i looked at this week's agenda: as you said, we are going to vote tomorrow on a declaration of urgency on the agreement with the united states on passenger data. well, that was déjà vu. what did we do here two weeks ago with all of us in this same room? the european parliament then decided not to approve or reject this agreement until the court of justice had delivered its judgment. because we want to respect the judgment of the court. however, it seems that the council does not want to respect the opinion of the european parliament. coreper is simply not happy with the democratic vote we have had and wants us to have another one. whatever we decide, the council will approve the agreement as the first item on the agenda on thursday morning and i understand that our case may be dropped. we must therefore discuss what we are going to do here in this house. it seems to me, however, that we cannot accept the council's request for urgency. we are not little children, and the decision of this house which was taken earlier is still in force. the majority of the coordinators of the committee on civil liberties also share this view. i therefore ask you, mr president, to take this matter off the agenda and not to make an indefinite mockery of us, otherwise we will open the door to a repeat of any vote whose outcome the council does not like. it seems to me that we have more than enough other work to do instead of just doing everything over again. (applause from the left)
the rapporteur. mr president, i agree with mrs buitenweg completely. i understand that this item will be discussed tomorrow and i would like to draw your attention to the fact that not only a speaker for and a speaker against may speak, but that the rapporteur may also speak. i must say that i find it extremely difficult to convince a full house of people who have not been through the whole process until now, but i am counting on the rapporteur's speaking time being available tomorrow. (applause from the left)
rapporteur. – mr president, the request for urgent procedure cannot be accepted by parliament as the council has not forwarded to parliament a text to which the international agreement makes reference, namely the commission's draft decision on adequacy, declaring that passengers' data are adequately protected by the us; nor has it received the so-called undertakings by the us administration. in other words, we still have no guarantee that european passenger data transferred to the us will not be passed on to third countries. this is the first vote of the new enlarged parliament, the only democratically elected institution that represents 450 million citizens. the council is asking us to vote with closed eyes on a question that relates to our fundamental rights. if we accept this request, parliament cannot be taken seriously. in addition, there is a procedural defect in that translation into the new languages is not available. i ask you to withdraw this item and also to respect our referral of the matter to the court of justice. (applause)
in july 2003 the commission suspended the management of eurostat because the cases of fraud, which had been known for a long time, continued. i demanded the same publicity back then. it is pointless to let institutions which are dependent on the commission carry out an inquiry if they are then to keep their findings secret. only if the public is well informed and can participate in the assessment of the matter can fraud, self-enrichment and nepotism be prevented in the future. a committee of inquiry makes this possible. even after a secret report was presented to the members of the committee on budgetary control at the end of september 2003, the commission can still pretend that it has no responsibility. the main person responsible, mr solbes, is now a minister in the new spanish government. there is no sign that the problems which five years ago forced the previous commission to resign before the elections have been solved. to illustrate the seriousness of the situation and to ensure that the next commission will be required to address the problems, i am voting today in favour of the motion of censure. the fact that the greens, who were previously in opposition, opposed it at the last meeting in order to prove their administrative reliability does not make it any less necessary to continue the fight against fraud.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) our group strongly supported the proposal which has just been rejected. now voters can see at once which members will shed light on the current commission's mismanagement, mismanagement and misrepresentation and which members will cover it up or not care about it. the slow and failed reform, the obsolete accounting system, which is vulnerable to fraud, and the eurostat affair are just three characteristic examples. they show that what the independent expert group found as early as 1999 is also true of this commission, namely that there is hardly anyone within the commission who is willing to take on responsibility. it is a travesty of democracy in europe and a denial of parliament's rights when members of the commission do not intervene when they are asked to do so, but also do not resign. if the commission rejects the european parliament's primary task of control, we have no choice but to dismiss it. otherwise we would not take ourselves seriously, nor would the citizens who elected us. the so-called european constitution is increasingly proving to be nothing more than a showpiece to hide from the citizens what is happening in the european union and how their interests are being harassed and manipulated. the vote of no confidence was a means of putting an end to the hesitation of the prodi commission and marks the beginning of an open culture in which everyone takes his responsibilities seriously.
- mr president, accession to the european union continues to play a part in the public and political imagination of eastern europe, even after, or perhaps precisely because of, the great enlargement round which has just been officially concluded. to illustrate, consider the following story. the president and the minister for economic affairs of one of the so-called new neighbouring countries in the east visit the oracle of delphi together. the minister's pressing questions about the trend of macroeconomic figures are answered surprisingly positively. to his disappointment, it adds: "not just during your tenure". encouraged by these promises, the president wants to know if his country might also become a member of the european union. "certainly", the famous oracle replies, "but not during my tenure". commissioner verheugen recently made a statement which bears a striking resemblance to the last oracle's spell. he stated unequivocally that for a considerable time the western border of the former soviet union, with the exception of the baltic states, would be the eastern border of the european union. clear language, which, incidentally, provoked the comment of the offended ukrainians that a turkish-moroccan camel would seem to be more easily able to pass through the eye of the needle of the european commission than a so-called foreign orthodox civilization such as the ukrainian. she told us. meanwhile, verheugen's choices of position are a testament to his sense of reality. that is to say, for the foreseeable future. speculation about ukraine's long-term eu prospects, for example, depends on several factors. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. can you still have the decency to keep the door closed for kiev? on the other hand, very recent statements by the ukrainian president, leonid kuchma, show that it is not accession to the european union but accession to the wto and nato that are currently kiev's international priorities, perhaps to reassure mr elles. in any case, the european union is faced with a new neighbourhood policy after this enlargement, independent of the question of membership of the european union. the new eastern border is a source of considerable concern, as the internal situation in belarus, ukraine and moldova is a cause for great concern. how can we promote the establishment of democratic states of law in these countries? concrete neighborly help is the most obvious. the european union must also be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the new member states will also play a major role in shaping the union's relations with its eastern neighbours. they are the most affected. we are counting on them today, just as the reformist forces in the societies of belarus, ukraine and moldova must be able to count on the european union in the near future.
- mr president, i would like to return to a point which has been emphasized in an equally powerful and charming way by my group's chairman, mrs frassoni, namely the possibility for turkish cypriots to take part in the european elections. i would like to make a few points and would like to hear the council's comments on this, if it is listening. if the turkish cypriots cannot vote, do you not think that it should be considered to leave two of the six cypriot seats specifically reserved for the defence of the interests of the turkish cypriots unoccupied? secondly, in the debate on the current enlargement, the question is often asked: where does it end? what is europe stopping at? this is a point for commissioner nielson. the european commission has so far taken a very pragmatic approach to this. in addition to romania, bulgaria and turkey, the balkans have been given a 'yes' in principle, without a time-frame being set. ukraine and belarus have received neither a yes nor a no. however, i read in the newspaper that the president of the european commission, romano prodi, said in dublin last weekend that the books are closed for ukraine and belarus. they can never become members of the european union. is this a change of attitude on the part of the european commission? has the european commission defined the ultimate frontiers of the european union between the companies this weekend, or is there a misunderstanding here? the third point, mr president, concerns an old debate, namely whether it is possible to expand and yet deepen. in other words: what are the implications of enlargement for the prospects for a common foreign policy? some, including ourselves, believe that the chances of success after enlargement are less, because there are now 25 countries, so the chances of unanimity have become smaller. others are very happy about that, because they don't want any foreign policy at all. i think the lesson from iraq is that we never want to see a division like this in europe again. i think that the chances of a european foreign policy have increased and i do not expect the new member states to be a trojan horse, as many think. i think it is possible to expand and deepen it. this means that a common foreign policy can also be established after enlargement.
- mr president, cooperation between the europe of the twenty-five and its neighbours to the east, such as ukraine, and to the south, such as north africa, should not be primarily about membership of the european union, but about stability and security pacts, with joint control of borders and border regions as the main priority. at the same time, the europe of the twenty-five must itself put things in order. in this europe too much is neoliberalism and there is no social dialogue, no social security and no work. in this europe too many decisions are taken in back rooms and there is no public-political debate. in this europe, too much bureaucracy and too little selectivity. a more social, democratic and selective europe means a strong europe with a constitution. the european union should then be able to support the stability and security pacts with the new neighbours with the confidence of the citizens. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. only if the citizens of the twenty-five feel stronger and safer will we, as the europe of the twenty-five, be able to be good neighbours. stability and security pacts mean fair trade areas, human rights programmes and knowledge exchange programmes, but also cooperation agreements to keep a close watch on our external borders and regions against terrorism, trafficking in women and crime. however, these stability and security pacts should not be at the expense of europe's global contribution to the fight against poverty and the ending of conflicts. on the contrary, our contribution, including that of the new members, must be increased. this is also part of the social model for europe - social inward and social outward. i believe, mr president, that europe should withdraw from iraq until the un has really taken over the mandate.
- mr president, it has been a privilege for me to have been involved in the accession process as coordinator of epp policy during the last three periods, from the liberation of eastern europe to the accession of the new countries, and also as rapporteur on strategy in the beginning. it was about making the union what the once so oppressed peoples hoped it would be: the european union is a federation of democratic states governed by the rule of law, which is internationally recognised as a factor for peace. the acceding states expected to come home to a community of values that also corresponded to their deepest desires. we are not a market in the first place: "it's not the economy, stupid!" the council may be less inclined to this, but we, as representatives of the european citizens, insist that it is not the bureaucratic or power politics that are decisive, but the political and moral. i agree with the commissioner's words about turkey: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have recently noticed that this turkish government is increasingly understanding and appreciating this. the same priority for political values applies to romania. i hope therefore that the commission and the council will not ignore parliament's warning and simply continue with business as usual. the accession of the ten is a very festive moment, which was only interrupted by the false note of the cypriot referendum, which, curiously enough, rewards the 'no' voters with two seats from the 'yes' voters. i wonder if that is indeed the intention and if any further action is being taken. this course of events shows how much we must insist on the sustainability of political change before a candidate becomes a member. a very important factor in this respect is the attitude of the members of this parliament. we are european representatives elected in different countries. that means that we are working for the common european welfare, in accordance with the ancient biblical command that each one should look not only to his own interest but also to that of others. in this sense, i hope that europe will become more and more christian. this atmosphere of solidarity creates the confidence that we absolutely need and that will determine the future of the european union.
- madam president, from 10 to 13 june the european parliament elections will be held in the 25 member states. it's a dream come true, you know? but they are also elections that opinion makers expect to settle with the policies of incumbent governments. but it is not a matter of the policy of the european parliament. there seems to be no direct link between the situation in the member states and the policies we are pursuing here. in the run-up to the elections, there is a website in the netherlands called "geenwoorden.nl". the electorate wants to see action and to know whether the parties and members of parliament have fulfilled their election promises. citizens have a right to a government that delivers on its promises and turns good intentions into good policies. if i take this up with the european commission, it is clear that today's declaration is again full of good intentions and good wishes, and once again i cannot help feeling that it will remain so. i have called for attention to be paid to the stalled lisbon process on several occasions in the economic policy debate in recent months. this process is stalled because member states wait for each other to implement the measures. the member states themselves must ensure that this is done, and you will understand that with 25 member states there must be a few countries taking the lead. we as a parliament need not sit still, we can define better the objectives of lisbon in our resolutions. we will then have feasible objectives and you will understand that feasible objectives are feasible. it is high time that european social and economic policy was put to work. the member states must implement this policy and we must ensure that the agreements reached are implemented. the elections will not be settled in this way, but a mandate will be given.
the rapporteur. mr president, i share the view of mrs ludford. i'm not gonna repeat what she said. i would just like to point out that i wrote a letter yesterday to mr gargani, the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, reminding him of the debate in this committee on 6 april, when we decided to bring the case before the court. however, in that debate there was also a question of another procedure, in case neither the council nor the commission would heed parliament's opinion. there was not enough time last night to discuss this letter, but the president has promised me that he will save eight of them and make use of them. i'll e-mail you this letter just in case. if the council were to go ahead and sign, i think we should start another procedure. i would ask you to pay attention to that.
mr president, we are pleased to welcome ten new members of the european commission today. for us dutch people today is a symbolic day, because on 5 may every year in the netherlands the end of the second world war is commemorated and celebrated. a war whose sad end is the division of europe. now, 59 years later, there is indeed a healing, a free europe. we want the european commission to continue its full efforts in this process of european healing. yesterday the motion of censure tabled by our colleague was put to the vote. we supported them. now you might think we'd be putting on a sour face today, too. nothing could be further from the truth. we're dealing with qualified candidates here, and we'll support them. but we do have an urgent advice for the new members. do not adopt the usual tactics of certain commissioners. so do not hide behind your officials, or behind the member states, and do not lose yourself in vagueness, but give concrete answers. be clear and specific in your commitments and follow through. this is a matter of great importance for european democracy. in short, make yourself controllable. we and the voters who voted for us appreciate that. finally, complete your mandate and do not leave early. the edd group regrets that the policy aspect of budgetary control has not been assigned separately to one of the new commissioners. with so many new members, it would have been easy. in recent years it has become clear that one commissioner cannot be responsible for the budget and for budgetary control at the same time. this leads to a conflict of interest in the fight against fraud. my group has a motto for the new commissioners which will inspire them greatly: not resign, but act. we wish you god's blessing on your responsible work. (applause from the left)
president, ten new countries and ten new commissioners. the ten new countries must meet the new criteria, and the commissioners must do the same. unfortunately, the outcome of the parliament's hearing with candidate joe borg is that he is not convincing in the field of development cooperation at the moment. public offices here receive public judgment and public scrutiny. this is done, i want to emphasize, with full respect for the person, but also in full dependence. we must take our work seriously and that is why the motion for a resolution on which we are voting this afternoon makes explicit reference to the critical judgment of the committee responsible. we believe that something must change drastically in october, otherwise we will have to look for another candidate for development cooperation and poverty reduction. i'm making that judgment publicly. however, if the commission would at least indicate that it has taken note of the critical opinion in the motion for a resolution, that would greatly increase the value of our work in the hearings. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. as regards the first question on the caucasus, i must say that i fully share the concern that has been expressed. i have recently met president saakashvili and i hope to be able to visit the countries of the caucasus, if possible. relations with the european union are essential if this area is to develop into the security and democracy it so badly needs. as for the cohesion strategy - the strategy prepared by commissioner barnier - it was drawn up by the whole commission and is shared by the new commissioner. it is a strategy which has a very important task, namely to create solidarity with the new countries without, however, abandoning the regions of the old member states which still have problems in adjusting to the average european income. it is a complex but harmonious strategy which we can achieve, of course, with the budgetary conditions which we have proposed and which we hope will be adopted in the financial perspective for 2007-13.
i share the view, mr president, that the commissioners from the new member states are generally sufficiently qualified to serve for the next six months. but there's a problem. as mr prodi has already said, it is to be expected that the commissioners from the ten new member states will continue to work for the next five years. i am afraid, however, that the members of this house have not realised this all too well. attendance at the hearings was generally very low. this view is shared by the chairmen of the other committees. i think we should remind the new parliament in this connection that it must take the autumn hearings very seriously. the commission has also made a number of recommendations to the council. as first vice-chairman of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i should like to give this opinion to the next parliament. i would very much like to have returned to parliament, but unfortunately my party does not allow me to do so.
i warmly welcome the dutch presidency of the council in the person of our prime minister. this presidency is about innovation. we have a new parliament now, a new commission later. in this context, let us speak rather of the challenge than of the threat of excessive ambition. a lot of new people with new ideas can bring a breath of fresh air. and this is necessary because the public is not yet very enthusiastic about the european union and the european institutions. yet, if it is right, we are all doing it for the sake of the citizen. but all those good intentions have led to an endless stream of regulations that make it unclear what we really need. i therefore welcome the presidency's desire to ensure that the objectives remain realistic and in line with the expectations of the citizens of europe. how does the president-in-office intend to achieve that? the presidency wishes to consider the possibility of provisional application of parts of the so-called constitution. is the presidency not anticipating the ratification process, which will involve referenda? do we still take our citizens seriously? we are assuming full freedom of choice between a yes and a no to that constitution. another sensitive issue is the position of turkey. will there be a serious assessment of whether turkey meets the political criteria of copenhagen, or can we say yes after 40 years of promise? even if it's supposed to be a no? what does the president-in-office of the council think of recent statements by some heads of government who apparently no longer need such an assessment and who already know that turkey is fine? the human rights situation in the world remains a cause for concern. intolerance, oppression and exploitation of minorities are more the rule than the exception in large parts of the world. a bad example of this is the religious law passed yesterday in sri lanka which effectively bans evangelism on pain of a long prison sentence. are you prepared to raise this serious violation of religious freedom with the sri lankan government?
the dutch presidency, mr president, will for the first time bring together all 25 union partners to ensure the success of these six months of cooperation, six crucial first months. as president of the council, mr balkenende will be able and must provide important impetus on key issues. the council itself will have to develop and apply new and effective methods. this is necessary if the union of 25 is not to be reduced to a mere 25 km/h speed. in the same spirit, the council must still approve the new statute of the european parliament and not block it. the citizens rightly expect us to be democratically transparent. i would like to hear from prime minister balkenende how he will give the necessary signals on these points of approach and communication. i know from my own experience as a member of parliament how capable he is of taking a strong stance and of persevering in his politics, even when it is unpopular or even controversial. we must therefore trust in his political vision and his ability to do what is necessary. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter is a very serious matter. the council president rightly made a timely connection between the civil courage, moral courage and conviction of von stauffenberg and his fellow-minds and the chance for reconciliation which europe had after liberation. it is in this spirit that we must do what is necessary now, after the liberating enlargement to 25 union partners. what is to be done, mr president? europe must be more visible. the problem is not to deny the public the fact that he is a complex mole, but to change him in concrete terms. the great questions of our time, which directly affect every citizen and every member state, must be faced by europe in a united spirit. this ranges from a coherent humanitarian asylum policy that tackles human trafficking directly to a common approach to global terrorism. this requires concrete action, the exchange of information and signals for the safety of citizens, and a clear line must be drawn in the fight against criminals and their networks across national borders, including the drug trade. and, mr president, in the interests of credibility, it is not necessary to add new requirements to those of the applicant countries, such as turkey, but to maintain them clearly and not to give in to the demands already made in the copenhagen context. if we as christian democrats want to make the european community of values not a sunday talk but a daily action point, we must set out common concrete policies here. the document of former prime minister kok is also not concrete in the economic field; i therefore expect clear proposals from the council and the commission and the necessary action points to give the lisbon agenda a strong impetus. there is every reason to expect a lot from this presidency on these points, the opportunity, energy and energy given to mr balkenende are not small, and for those who have been given a lot, much can be expected of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have full confidence in the personal vision, attention and determination of this president of the council.
i would like to welcome the dutch presidency, mr president, on behalf of the dutch and european social democrats in the european parliament. your minister for european affairs has asked us to focus on the political debate. we as european socialists are happy to accept this challenge. you talk about modernisation, competition with the usa and asia, and the implementation of the lisbon objectives. we socialists fear that with these seductive words you are actually trying to do something quite different: the european parliament has a duty to support the european union. if a few years ago there was a huge effort to combat unemployment by reducing working hours and division of labour, now it is called extended working hours and you talk about shorter holidays. what's so modern about that? we were talking about quality of work, health and safety at work, prevention of illness and accidents at work with european-wide regulation, now you are talking about deregulation. has this removed the objective of lower absenteeism and higher labour force participation? we were talking about greater flexibility in the labour market with greater legal protection, and now you are talking about deregulation of this protection. your aim of abolishing administrative burdens seems more like an excuse for abolishing certain social and administrative acquisitions. at the same time, you do not address the european procurement rules which are suffocating small and mediumsized enterprises. we were talking then about investing 3% of gdp per member state in research and training, which the netherlands itself has so far fallen behind, and now you are talking only about the stability pact, cuts, and the hard play of the 3% deficit, without making money and space available to invest 3% in research and training. i would have liked to have seen a fight in the court of justice about that. that would be the only way to take the cook report - work, work, work - seriously. in 2000, we were talking about high-quality public services, and not just in infrastructure, but now you are talking about liberalising and privatising the services sector. read the following: electricity, health care, public transport. are you prepared to put a stop to mr bolkestein's disastrous proposals for the liberalization of services? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. president, for the social democrats this seems to be an abuse of the lisbon agenda to implement a hard conservative economic agenda under the name of modernisation. we social democrats say: it is a way of turning back the clock, of refusing to work with brains, of putting quality, research, education and high-quality public services first. we fear that this will increase unemployment in europe, the weak will pay the price of austerity and you, with your candidate barroso, will take the wrong path to win the battle with asia and the usa. we challenge you to the debate, you understand your presidency and you are welcome, but your political choices still present us with the necessary problems and we look forward to the debate with your presidency. (applause from the left)
mr president-in-office, in a gray political past i was once a member of the municipal council of a medium-sized town in the netherlands, amstelveen. a fellow councillor, now a european celebrity and not unknown to you, once spoke to us about what he called the paradox of the mediocre fanfare. in short, the conductor of such a mediocre band had a dual task. the band had to start at the same time and it had to end at the same time. what happened in between was not the point. the council of ministers is a very important institution. the programme of the dutch presidency is good. i believe that very sincerely. i am also glad that after the rather moderate rhetoric of the election campaign, mr van den berg has just gone back on the old-fashioned socialist tour. (applause) i think your programme is realistic. you do not underestimate your task, and that has been different in other presidencies, but your challenge is different. the european elections have shown that the electorate is not only indifferent, as you rightly said, but also angry at the european institutions. they say it's not going to work anymore. it is not enough that, for example, in the council - but parliament and the commission must also take note - the fanfare starts and ends at the same time, the tune must also be worth listening to. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i am glad you said that, because i have not had much experience of that in the council so far. if you succeed in that, i think you will have a successful presidency and i wish you every success in that ambition. (applause from the left)
president, finally jp the np in the ep. i would like to welcome the president of the council to the european parliament. in the netherlands, prime minister balkenende has established himself as the man of standards and values, and in europe too he wants to take over the presidency in order to have a debate on european standards and values, and i am fine with that. then let it not become a vague and easy discussion. my group would think it a good idea to take the asylum policy for example through the proper channels. the european directive on asylum procedures, for example, which was adopted by the ministers of justice in may, allows asylum seekers to be expelled before the final outcome of their appeal procedure, at the insistence of the netherlands. they can then attend the appeal procedure by videoconference if, of course, they have not been imprisoned in the country of origin in the meantime. that is a worthless thing and it is also absolutely contrary to international standards. i can say that my group will ask the european parliament to refer this directive to the european court of justice for annulment. (applause) mr president, i also congratulate the dutch presidency. i understand that countries holding referendums on the european constitution have been asked to coordinate their dates as much as possible. that is a really good initiative, but it would be even better if there were a real european referendum. i would therefore ask the dutch government to at least start drawing up plans for this. the important plus point of the constitution is that the legislative meetings of the council of ministers are now held in public, hurrah. it is also absurd that today laws are still passed behind closed doors. there is nothing, nothing, that is stopping you from just going public right now. my group therefore calls on the dutch presidency to open the doors from today so that citizens can follow the discussions and the voting behaviour of their governments directly from today. the last point, mr president, is the stability pact, and it is becoming clear that the stability pact is going downhill. a smarter pact is needed that is less fixed on annual budget balances and instead looks more at long-term indicators such as public debt and pension liabilities. the commission has already put forward ideas for this, and the question is whether the dutch government is going to pursue them vigorously. i hope so. (applause from the left)
the dutch government is calling for priority to be given to economic growth and the fight against terrorism. it is embracing the now outdated illusions of the lisbon summit in 2000. they assumed that europe could beat the united states and japan in a competition by 2010 by making it as bad here as it is already there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the education system. the disadvantages of lisbon are becoming apparent, but the benefits are not. the same applies to the stability pact, without violating democracy the 3% standard is becoming increasingly unworkable. the netherlands is increasingly emerging as the bravest of the class in the european union and nato by demanding stricter compliance with the stability pact, by outsourcing public transport to international companies, by extending working hours, by bolkestein's pressure for a services directive and by continuing to participate in a military involvement in the us protectorate of iraq, which is increasing the terrorist threat to europe. i sometimes hear from other member states the sigh that it would be nice if the netherlands left the european union, because it has become the engine of the unholy drive to reduce public spending and to reject public services. that is the aim of the european union, and it is the aim of the european union. if mr balkenende wants to make europe the same, he will be faced with great social contradictions, because public opinion is going in a different direction. the lisbon summit may have decided to reject public services, but then this parliament, on my proposal, decided by a large majority to reject that obligation for public transport. instead of pursuing unlimited economic growth at the expense of social security, public services and the environment, it is better to maintain adequate taxation and to pursue a redistribution of national and european income in favour of the weakest and of useful community tasks and also for the integration of migrants and for the elimination of poverty and despair in the world, which still provide a continuing breeding ground for terrorism.
i would like to wish the dutch presidency success in its priorities. the presidency is working under the motto 'realism and ambition', and that is something that appeals to me very much, because in recent years we have seen a sort of tradition grow of constantly adding new priorities to the agenda and at every council summit there are solemn declarations, but in reality it often turns out to be empty phrases and there is no action at all. it is not surprising that citizens are becoming disappointed and sceptical, and no promotion campaign can counter that. so it is time for action, and this applies in particular to the lisbon agenda. because i have just heard a number of speakers from the left of the political spectrum, and ironically, from my right, saying all the time that this lisbon agenda would not be social. but, mr president, i think that the interpretation of the lisbon agenda is very social. we look at 9% unemployment in europe, we look at youth unemployment where some young people will never get a job. it is high time that we implemented this agenda and i would like to point out that we could learn a great deal from the 10 new countries in the european union, because they have made a lot of difficult and painful reforms in the last 15 years, but they have been able to achieve greater economic growth, and everyone is contributing to that. i therefore find it incomprehensible and irresponsible how some parties are trying to undermine the lisbon strategy. finally, there is also the matter of agreeing on eu funding. it is a well-known fact that the dutch government is advocating drastic cuts, and i would like to hear from you how that relates to the ambitions you have mentioned in the slogan, because in addition to good financial management, what europe needs at the moment is vision, action and political leadership, and i look forward to a successful presidency. (applause from the left)
i am sorry, mr president, there was confusion, but that is also the novelty of a lot of people in the whole new parliament. i congratulate you on your election as vice-president and as president of this important debate. mr barroso, i want to concentrate on one subject and that is the subject of foreign and security policy. my group chairman has already put a number of questions to you and that was one of them. we believe that the future european commission can make an important contribution to the further development of a strong european foreign policy with its own distinctive features. it can, of course, play an important role in this by linking the powers of the european commission to those of the council, and in particular the high representative and the president of the commission. we want a more ambitious european union. security policy is an important part of this and we believe that it can never be a copy of the american model, let us say, of military supremacy. we believe that the european countries represent a different tradition and we advocate a broad security policy in which civilian instruments are preferred and the military is always the last resort and only on the basis of decisions taken by the european union. we want to stand up, also in that context of the wider security policy, for development, for aid to developing countries, for fair trade and for tackling insecurity but also for tackling the causes of insecurity. we are all aware of the importance of the role of the european parliament in the development of the union. on this basis, the eu must dare to make its own choices, whether it is about kyoto, the international criminal court or the approach to nuclear proliferation. we must not underestimate the importance of genuine cooperation when it is the only way to do so. i now come to the crux of the debate and to the question which still lives with us as a group of european social democrats: the proposed president of the commission has not been able to convince us that he also envisages such an autonomous role for the european union. the vast majority of the group of the european socialists were against the war in iraq. it turns out that the decision to do so was based on mistakes or on complete information about weapons of mass destruction in iraq or iraq's ties to al qaeda and other terrorist groups and that story we still read about a lot in the newspapers and elsewhere every day. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud. it turns out that it takes a lot of effort to get iraq back on track. we have said much about this in the last six months. mr barroso, as prime minister of portugal, is playing a leading role by hosting a summit in the azores, which he himself has facilitated, and by doing so he gives the impression that he is identifying with the unilateral approach proposed by the americans, as we see it. he did not distance himself from it after that. the question is whether he would have the same reaction, given the same choice, and that is essentially his basic attitude. the whole point is a heavy one for the pse group and will play an important part in the final assessment we are going to make tonight. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. the fact that politicians have a political background, but that these former colleagues are not candidates for president of the european commission, does of course play a part in the assessment of a candidate. i hope he will understand that we want a president who can at least share our approach to the security policy of the european union.
i also congratulate you, mr president, on your election as vice-president of this parliament. mr president-in-office of the commission, your presidency, should you take it, is obviously coming at a very difficult time. in the european elections, more than half of the voters stayed at home and those who went to vote chose, in part, parties that are critical of europe or anti-european. if the voters have said anything, it is that they are saying to us, to parliament, to the council and to the commission, that this is no longer the case. the european union as it is now cannot go on. there is a huge crisis of confidence and the last thing we can afford is to go on the agenda. that is why we are so critical of the procedure followed. that is not at all personal, on the contrary, you have been unanimously supported and that is what you are advocating, but that procedure does not fit the picture we should have of europe. you may not be the problem, but you may be the solution. you can say, yes, it must not go on like this, we must work in a different way. we must present a different picture from the one we are presenting. the question is: you going on? i am sure that you will not, also because of what you have said before, but will you continue with this backroom atmosphere, with decisions being taken by ministers in the "old-boy style" or will you also say, like all those citizens, "this is no longer the case"? a second question, should we believe you on your words or your deeds? there is something in your words of "for every little bit", which i can well imagine if a candidacy is in play. i have great respect for your actions, you are pursuing an economic policy or you have pursued an economic policy in portugal which the union also needs. your foreign policy - and i disagree with the previous speaker on this - is excellent, and these are the kinds of things we need. i hope i can believe your actions more than your words. finally, one more question. you have said more women in the commission, and i think that is a very good point. as a dutch liberal, i am particularly interested in what you do when a country has a good female candidate; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you may have some good male candidates, but that woman has to be the one. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
president, the dutch subgroup of our group is considering supporting mr barroso's candidacy despite our constitutional reservations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are all committed to good, solid relations with the united states. in this period of global threat and terror, close cooperation with washington is far preferable to european policy aimed at the united states. we also welcome mr barroso's focus on the family as the cornerstone of society and his commitment to a sound financial and economic policy within the union. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. firstly, we ask the european commission to adopt an objective stance on the politically sensitive question of turkey's possible accession. the progress report this autumn should therefore be based on the actual situation in turkey and not on the positive attitude of some heads of state or government in the council. secondly, we call on mr barroso to draw attention to the serious loss of authority by the palestinian authority. we expect him and the european commission to give the best possible support for the urgent reform of the palestinian authority, the necessary step, madam president, towards perhaps a real peace process in the middle east.
mr president, when you became president of this parliament in july you mentioned an open and visible european parliament as one of your priorities. in this our pvda delegation wholeheartedly supports you. we have even made a concrete suggestion to take that first step. for some years now, european citizens have not been able to walk into meetings open to the public. understandably, increased security measures have restricted the free access to parliament. this has of course made the gap between the citizen and the politicians more problematic and wider. one solution is to broadcast the meetings via the parliament's website. the plenary session already does this and it can easily be extended to the meetings of the various parliamentary committees. that would enable citizens in all member states to follow our work in those committees, well, cheaply and democratically. our delegation proposes today to you as president that this openness be made a priority. our colleague, dorette corbey, has made a particular point of introducing you to the environment committee, and today we are counting on your support for this proposal on behalf of all our colleagues, so that we can bring the european citizen closer to our work in the committees through the website.
i would like to return to the hostage situation in iraq. i am of course in agreement with the condemnations you have expressed, mr president, but can we not do something else? this parliament, with more than 300 people, has signed a petition for his release, and that is a very good thing, and that international pressure, including this petition - more has happened, of course - that international pressure has already led to an internal debate in iraq among the radical movements. that's actually an unexpected result, which is quite a lot. there are guilty innocents and innocent innocents. i have to go a little further: hostage-taking as a method must be abolished, that goes without saying. can this parliament not send a letter to all the national parliaments of our 25 member states and call on them to submit a similar petition, a similar appeal to plead as democratically elected bodies, symbols of respect for the individual, for the immediate release of all the hostages in iraq?
president, the 35th session of icao is about to be a memorable one. twenty-one delegations have put forward proposals which will not improve the position of aviation in terms of emission levels. the commission is also proposing to abolish the individual initiative of countries or regions to take emission control measures and to replace it with a more legislative initiative from icao. it is a contradiction in terms, because we never agree on such matters in icao. the community is committed to sustainable development in both ecological and economic terms. i've been a big supporter of that for years. in that light, we must dare to face reality. aviation and the environment are not friends. we are trying to change this on all fronts in this house, and we must continue to do so, in principle with our partners in other parts of the world, but if that is not possible, then without them. at the moment, aviation has certain unintended advantages over other modes of transport, and we have to get rid of them. the maintenance of tax advantages and the failure to cover certain social costs do not contribute to this. we must be careful not to throw our own glasses in. our measures must not lead to european companies being forced to stop fighting. measures are fine, but they have to be applied to all players. but that's not a free pass. i therefore also believe that the proposed amendments to icao resolution a33-7 should be withdrawn. a sustainable policy requires courage and foresight, and these proposals do not address these issues. the european community must show that transport and the environment are less contrasting than in the amendments.
president. - as the climate spokesman for the press group, i would naturally like to join all the colleagues who have expressed their concern about the icao resolution before us. this would be a step backwards, and we should be moving forward. our group is committed to a very decisive climate policy and we do not shy away from difficult choices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the gatt agreements. so it is aviation that we must tackle. we believe that international emissions trading can provide an additional incentive for airlines to develop new and efficient aircraft, and thus sustainable aviation. i call on all members, and particularly on the epp colleagues, to support the resolution before this house and thus send a clear signal to the united states. i also urge the commission and the dutch presidency, if they come again, to support an american motion for a resolution on this subject at the icao meeting without reservation. instead, the european union should focus, together with its partners, on a constructive contribution by icao to the next conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol in buenos aires.
mr president, it goes without saying that the ulla garbage ship in south-west turkey has gone really wrong. it is also clear that this disaster could have been prevented. now over 300 million litres of water have been polluted, and a lot of investment will have to be made to clean up this pollution. but it is much more important to look for ways of preventing such situations in the future. this concerns in particular the implementation and enforcement of the international basel convention and the european regulation on shipments of waste. as rapporteur, i have been working intensively on the revision of the latter regulation for over a year. the current regulation clearly states that member states must take back their cargo if it is refused on good grounds. in november last year the european parliament proposed to extend the grounds for refusal. i hereby call on the european commission to adopt these proposals of the european parliament. in this case of the ulla ship, which was loaded with hazardous waste, it is particularly strange that the ship left without the permission of a receiving country. so apparently spain has acted against the rules. i would therefore ask the european commission to take additional enforcement measures and, if necessary, legal action.
i would like to say, mr president, that i fully agree with the analysis just made by the commissioner. we're talking about new neighbors, but we're talking about an old problem. this is a problem that has existed since 1996, when the european union first had a quarrel with president lukashenko, the leading figure in belarus. parliamentary elections are coming up on 17 october and it is important that we now pay attention to the situation in the country. a referendum has also been announced on a possible third term for the president. i have been able to chair the delegation of this parliament to belarus for five years. we have had bad experiences in the past with elections in that country. the european parliament has already been involved in the negotiations on the future of the union, and the european council has already been involved in the negotiations on the future of the union. all the reports i have received in the run-up to the elections show once again that the opposition is being thwarted, the opposition candidates are being opposed and the media are being influenced in an unacceptable way. it is therefore important that we, as the european parliament, now, more than a month before the elections, give a signal of what we expect, in the hope that we will not have to reject those elections again. earlier this year we tried to revive the troika of the three parliamentary institutions in order to get it active in time for the elections in belarus. the role of the european parliament in particular has been blocked. i was personally more or less not welcome in that country. so this problem must be solved before we as a parliament can even send a delegation to observe the elections. we want the opposition to have the space to campaign in a proper way. we too want the candidates to be free to do what they want. the use of administrative means to hamper the opposition and civil society must stop. this must be coupled with a climate change, which also means more trade union freedom and academic freedom. there are countless examples of how unions are manipulated and infiltrated. academic institutions that try to operate independently are closed or dismantled. subsidy flows that are meant to promote freedom in this country are being stopped. only when all the things i have just mentioned have happened can we perhaps be in a position to say that after 17 october there have finally been improvements, that there is finally room for the european union to open up relations which have been frozen since 1996 and to develop more contacts with that country. this is, as i said, only possible if the referendum is also cancelled. i regard what president lukashenko is now trying to do as a sort of constitutional coup d'état via a referendum, in which the population is undoubtedly being manipulated in all sorts of ways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must strive to bring the last dictatorship in europe - as we usually call it - to an end, and on that basis we can indeed give shape to a new neighbourhood policy with that country. i hope that the elections will be a step towards europe, but i fear that they will be a step towards an even more authoritarian system. i share the commissioner's pessimism about this development.
president. - since 1 may this year belarus has been a member of the european union. it is well known that this geographical proximity is not necessarily parallel to political affinity. exactly one week ago, the belarusian head of state, lukashenko, highlighted this gap. he issued a decree to legalize and consolidate his authoritarian presidency by ballot after 2006. in just over a month, on october 17, this constitutional amendment could be a fait accompli. this predictable development does not in any way simplify relations between brussels and minsk. as belarus is a major transit route for energy and other goods supplies from russia to eu member states, the repressive regime of lukashenko is strong. and incidentally, over the years it has proved immune to direct international attempts at gradual democratization and reform. the undeniable desire of lukashenko to retain power will only strengthen this tendency in the coming period. what can the european institutions do in belarus? the political isolation of the current rulers towards the west seems complete, doesn't it? nevertheless, we must not abandon belarusian society to the unbridled lust for power of lukashenko. this is a path that is certainly difficult, as a german study this summer points out. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. there is indeed a glimmer of light here, for despite the difficult conditions of recent years some 2500 registered civil society organisations have managed to survive to date. long-term contacts with foreign partners certainly contributed to this. the federal republic of germany is leading the way with hundreds of initiatives. how does the commission view this way out of the political impasse between the european union and belarus? it is certainly a long-winded job that requires a lot of risky effort. however, the laudable goal is inspiring, the general welfare of the belarusian people with the active involvement of civil society and the ability of both local and regional authorities. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community.
as mrs guy-quint has just said, there is always something predictable about debates such as the one we are having today. the commission draws up a preliminary draft budget, the council draws up a draft budget and without knowing the figures, it can be predicted that the council will cut back on agricultural expenditure, as it will on almost all other budgetary categories. a large part of agricultural expenditure is regulated by law. i have always felt that the commission is better equipped than the council to determine the exact expenditure, and therefore i think it is a good tradition for parliament to take the commission more seriously than the council in this area. in any case, we shall have to wait and see what the note of amendments will say at the end of october. as a liberal group we hope, and this is already partly reflected in parliament's position on the 2005 budget, that two pilot projects will be continued. the first concerns the possibility of future insurance against infectious animal diseases, which will certainly occur again at some point and will weigh heavily on the agricultural budget. the second pilot project will lead to a system of quality assessment of european agricultural products. it is difficult to justify that farmers in europe have to compete more and more with farmers elsewhere in the world, while farmers elsewhere in the world do not have to comply with the same standards. there is much to be said about the many budget categories. as far as the structural funds are concerned, i think it is essential that the impact of the n+2 rule be analysed precisely and that it be checked how it relates to the estimates. if it is found that there are still large surpluses, it can be checked whether it is possible to cut back. i would also like to mention - i am going through the chapters of the budget at random - something about category 5. i do think the council is being a little too generous to itself, in giving itself the highest increase. it is now a good practice for the council and parliament not to criticise each other's budgets and to leave them unchanged. but i think that in the council budget a new element has been introduced for some years now, namely the expenditure on the common foreign and security policy. i wonder if that is really an administrative expenditure of the council. i don't think it was. i think it is clearly a political activity which must be assessed as such and parliament must have more control over it, not just information, as is the case now. one more thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and we are pleased to see that they have been accepted. that still hasn't happened. perhaps mrs schreyer could tell us when the list of results of the pilot projects and preparatory actions will be available.
president. - mr president, fifty thousand people have been killed in the last year and a half, a million people have been displaced and the government in sudan, a dictatorship since 1989, is still in power. a government that diplomatically bows to the international community and politely listens to its requests, but in the meantime, it takes the janjaweed militias into its own army and continues to murder and rape. this government is apparently only prepared to make real peace agreements if there is a real threat and the willingness to make that threat come true is shown. in south sudan, we have seen that the threat of an oil boycott has worked for this government. minister van ardenne told the european parliament last week that she considered the oil boycott as one of the means of putting pressure on the government. in the security council, europe must be firm and united, together with the african union and the united states, in declaring that either the sudanese government will comply with the agreements reached with kofi annan or there will be a targeted oil boycott, which will be declared irrevocably through the security council. mr president, the question remains with many: the sudanese government has little to fear in the meantime, or are we prepared to take this matter through the security council? i hope we are strong on this point.
mr president, hundreds of children and mothers have been victims of the terrible terrorist attack on a school in beslan. the first day of school for hundreds of children, which should have been a holiday, turned into a terrible drama. we have to remember that the european union is not a military force, but a political force, and that it is a political force, and that it is a political force. at the same time, it was also an expression of powerlessness, the powerlessness that everyone feels in the face of this brutal attack on those who cannot defend themselves, children and their mothers. mr president, today we want to express our sympathy with the people in a remote corner of europe. but the debate on the growing threat of a terrorism that does not fear anyone and nothing must be conducted today and in the months ahead. understanding and action must be the key words. we must try to understand the incomprehensible. we must be prepared to trace the causes of terrorism, to open our eyes to the hopelessness and frustrations of people and to conflicts which seem to go on indefinitely without any solution in sight. i do not mean, of course, that the existence of these conflicts justifies the barbaric violence against innocent people, but that we must make a concerted effort to eliminate these sources of violence. at the same time, we must also be prepared to intervene, to further strengthen international cooperation in the fight against international terrorism. the european union must therefore offer all possible assistance to the russian people and to president putin in trying to prevent disasters of this magnitude in the future. of course, there is also the question of how it could have happened. it is good that the duma is investigating the outcome and the handling of the beslan disaster. the chechen question cannot be ignored either. the aid i have just mentioned naturally also involves cooperation in the field of intelligence, training of specialised units and learning from each other's experience. the fight against international terrorism cannot be tackled without international cooperation and the european union must play an important role in this. my group has little sympathy for those who think they can fight the fight against international terrorism alone and who think that this fight can and should be fought only in their own way. i would ask parliament to hold a further in-depth debate with the council and the commission on the european contribution to the fight against terrorism before the end of the year. where are we, what's our threat analysis? minister bot has already given an important impetus to this debate this morning in his statement on what the european union and the presidency are doing. the search for the causes and the fight against them are paramount, but in our european tradition we must also keep an eye on safeguarding the democratic framework and the protection of fundamental human rights in this respect.
the image of children fleeing an explosion and being shot in the back is too appalling to put into words. and above all, we feel at this moment with the victims, the survivors and the whole of russian society. however much we may disagree about a conflict such as that in chechnya, there can and must never be any justification for this kind of atrocity. we have an obligation as politicians to our citizens to do everything possible to prevent a repetition. it is becoming increasingly clear that terrorism knows no borders and threatens every open society. in the fight against terrorism, we will therefore have to work together more than ever as the european union, with countries such as the united states and russia, but also within the union itself, we have a world to win in terms of cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the extraordinary security and cooperation council following the september 2001 attacks in new york agreed that all relevant information on terrorist threats would henceforth be exchanged within the union. a few days before the madrid attacks, it became clear that this exchange was still very under-performing. we can't afford this anymore. have words of beauty been translated into deeds? and the need for uniform implementation, mr president, also applies to terrorist organisations which have been placed on the european list. in our union without internal frontiers, these organizations are banned in some countries but not in many others. the debate on the effective and uniform implementation of the plans must be conducted at a higher level and it would be good if coordinator de vries would also forward his progress reports directly to this house in the future. it is only when ambitious words are translated into concrete actions that we can truly show understanding and sympathy for the victims of new york, madrid and beslan.
president, constructive iraqi voices deserve to be heard by us. that was true during the days of saddam hussein's reign of terror, and it is just as true now that the future of the two-stream country is directly at stake. at the moment, these deeply concerned iraqi voices are calling on the member states of the european union to be especially visible in their country and the region. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. if not, the eu will eventually have to pay the price. furthermore, these iraqi voices are committed to a regional and local start to the country's urgent reconstruction. the opportunities in the north and south of iraq are there to do so. the member states of the european union must not leave it unattended. if this local and regional reconstruction succeeds, the population will be able to see for itself in the terrorist hotbeds what is most beneficial to it. that brings me to the future political structure of iraq. a federal solution to preserve the country's territorial integrity is met with great reluctance by neighbouring countries. another excellent opportunity to demonstrate european commitment to national and regional stability. i hope and expect that this commitment will also be translated into action at transatlantic level under the dutch presidency, because that is how we contribute to the future of the two-streams country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i realize that the eu's role in iraq is modest for the time being, but it can nevertheless be a decisive factor in the quality of democracy in the future. my questions are specific and i must say in advance that i welcome the proposal of the president-in-office of the council to send a fact-finding mission to iraq perhaps this autumn. my first question concerns the use of eu funds in iraq itself. i believe that it is for practical reasons that these funds have been chosen to be spent mainly through the existing traditional structures, and in this way to have the greatest possible impact. it seems, however, that minorities, and i am referring in particular to the assyrian minority, which represents 10% of the population and is mainly christian, are in danger of being left out of the picture. that would be painful, because they too have suffered the consequences of saddam's arabisation programme and are still suffering repression in the kurdish region. can the commission and the council say more about the use of the funds and in particular also about the use of the funds for this minority and other small minorities? my second point concerns the draft constitution. it recognizes arabic and kurdish as official languages. this is not the case with assyrian, despite the fact that over 10% of the population speak it. what role can the european union play in this respect in safeguarding the positions of minorities and also minority languages in the new iraq and iraqi society?
president, when president prodi said two years ago that the stability pact was too inflexible, he was right. you, minister zalm, were at the forefront of the criticism, because anyone who wanted to change the stability pact was a softie. you took, as you often did, the obvious pleasure of throwing all the critics on a pile, because they were all pruts. now , may i ask you something ? is it not true that what you can live with now, what you have just read out, is very similar to what those same critics of the stability pact said two years ago? two examples: the commission has always been in favour of paying more attention to the public debt and less to the annual budget deficit. we have always said that there are situations where a member state is not penalized for exceeding 3%, for example if there is low growth for a long period. now there seems to be a willingness in the council and the commission to interpret the stability pact more flexibly, and i welcome that. but minister zalm, be honest and flexible, don't say: "we clarify and we improve and we clarify the statute". no, why don't you just say, "we are finally taking the constructive criticism of our green and left colleagues seriously and that is why we are modernising the pact". minister zalm, everyone has to admit they're wrong sometimes, this is your moment.
i would like to congratulate mr almunia on his achievements. he has made a courageous attempt to revive the stalled growth and stability pact. i would also like to congratulate and thank mr gerrit zalm as president of the ecofin council for the fact that he is not stuck in the old cows and i would not like to take them out of the ditch, as my colleague mr lagendijk did. what i do hope is that he does not do so merely on opportunistic and tactical grounds, but that he is now also convinced in substance that it is also important from an economic point of view to emphasize more the growth element of the pact. i would also like to say that my group very much appreciates the fact that you have indicated your willingness to continue the debate with our economic committee. i think it is important that we in the european parliament should be involved in this. as regards the content: my group is positive about the direction of the commission document, that will be clear. we have always advocated a better balance between the objectives of growth and stability. we want to get rid of the friction between the ambitious lisbon objectives on the one hand and the budgetary standards that are too tight for a prolonged period of recession on the other hand, in order to be able to invest in renewed economic growth. it is absurd that in portugal, for example, research and development and education expenditure is being cut rather than increased, and that greece is being punished - another example of budgetary overruns - for the wonderful olympic games we have all enjoyed so much. i also see, for example, in my own country the discussion with the lower levels of government on how they can finance investments from the reserves. the following also apply: they have the money in those reserves to make investments. that could be good for growth, but because of not exceeding the 3% budget deficit they would be forced to stop investing, which is absurd in this period. my group therefore supports a more precisely formulated growth pact. i would like to put forward two elements. first of all, i'm curious to hear your thoughts on the golden rule. as you know, there is a very strong call in the united kingdom, which is not part of the euro, for a distinction to be made between current budgetary expenditure and investment expenditure. your objection has always been that those boundaries cannot be drawn clearly. my plea would be not to leave this to the ingenuity of individual national finance ministers, but rather to see whether we cannot draw common standards from the lisbon objectives and the broad economic guidelines and hopefully also from the advice of wim kok's high level group in the future. i would suggest that we then translate the many fine commitments of lisbon and the subsequent summits into real investment and growth plans. the second element is that i propose to do so in multiannual plans, which coincide with that deadline of 2010 or with subsequent years. what do you think of the idea of writing off that growth and growth investments over several years so that they don't count on an annual basis for that 3% norm? i would like to hear from you whether you are prepared to continue such discussions in the ecofin council and i hope that we can thereby really put the pact back on its feet again, on the two legs it needs, namely stability and growth.
president, it is almost two years since president prodi called the stability and growth pact stupid. during these two years, the debate continued and led to the commission's proposals which were discussed at the last ecofin council in scheveningen. the european commission's proposals, in my view, provide a basis for further shaping the debate on the stability and growth pact, and in this respect the implementation of the pact continues to benefit from clear and unambiguous decision-making. sanctions in a clear manner remain required. the debate now taking place must not be detrimental to the implementation of the pact and to confidence in the euro. the debate at that time suggested that greater account should be taken of cyclical fluctuations. thus, in times of need, the surplus saved from good years can be used. i would like to hear from mr zalm whether this suggestion has been accepted and whether it may be the key to an acceptable new pact. i would also like to ask the council to clarify the duties and responsibilities of the next president of ecofin, mr juncker.
the court's ruling of 13 july was a positive development in the fight for the stability and growth pact. there was a clear signal from an independent body that agreed with the european commission on its approach to member states structurally exceeding the 3% standard. but now the same commission, albeit with a new commissioner, is presenting a proposal for the reform of the stability and growth pact which, because of its vagueness, will be particularly welcome in the accounting chambers of the adulterous members of the council. the commission is considering a more intelligent application of the pact, but i wonder what definition of intelligence the commission is using in this context, because since when is rewarding violations intelligent? let's not make this any more complicated than it already is. in the simplicity of the pact lies its strength. two large member states are now in difficult times and want to find a solution to their economic situation at the expense of the pact, and are only too eager to get ahead of the future. but how can we be confident that in a new system there will be any guarantee that those member states, france and germany, will continue to adhere to the agreements and, above all, as my colleague mr klinz has already said, that they will carry out the necessary economic reforms? a review of the pact could of course be useful, and i wholeheartedly agree with the president of ecofin. but whereas in the past i was definitely in favour of a much stronger role for the european commission in maintaining the pact, the new commissioner has yet to convince me that the pact is in good hands with him. and i am glad that the council has at least shown itself to be responsible under the dutch presidency.
the commission proposal, mr president, is a bit of a shock to us: i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so. i believe that the core of the pact must be maintained, i.e. a maximum of 3% of gdp for the budget deficit and 60% of gdp for the public debt. if flexibility is to be introduced, it must be based on objective and generally accepted criteria. the proposal fails to meet this requirement. the european commission must have more powerful means of binding the member states to the commitments of the pact. at the moment the council is too much in the way; this leads to the politicization of the stability pact. the sanction mechanism in the current stability pact has not proved to be as harsh and neutral as it should be: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the current pact does not sufficiently establish the need to work towards building up a surplus in times of economic prosperity. however, this is essential for the success of a stability pact. the creation of such a buffer is essential, for example, in view of ageing. the commission's emphasis on the importance of this in the revised pact is therefore to be welcomed. at the same time, the 3% ceiling pact provides member states with sufficient room in principle to stimulate their economies in times of economic downturn.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what is happening here in the debate in this house, of course, but also in the media the debate on women's reproductive rights, which are not granted in all eu countries, has been revived. and that discussion, that's exactly what the organization women on waves is trying to do. any politician who is for or against that organisation and wants to engage in the fundamental debate on abortion is therefore doing justice to the aims of this women's organisation. i can be brief about that myself. i fully support the position of this european parliament as set out in mrs van lancker's report. it said that abortion should not be taken lightly, but that women should have the right to choose a safe, legal abortion. that is what the majority of the european parliament has said and that is what women on waves has said. but portugal refused to let the ship into port, and that's bizarre. women on waves does not carry out illegal activities in portuguese waters, but the organisation does provide information on a subject that is not of interest to the government. if we start with that, of course, we'll never know the end. the next time greenpeace says something the government does not like, they will not be allowed to enter the ports, and we cannot accept that. the portuguese government has argued that the ship is a danger to public health in the borndief. does the european commission agree? the dutch minister bot has already said that it is not justified to refuse a ship access to this ground. does the european commission share his view? but even on grounds of public policy, access cannot be denied. the information activities are non-violent, they take place in the privacy of the ship and in the spirit of dialogue and respect. the government's strong reaction is therefore unwarranted. the ship has now crossed the border again, as do some 10,000 portuguese women who do so each year to get the treatment they need.
mr president, this is the third time the boat has sailed. first, as you know, the boat is already sailing to ireland and poland. the boat is a dutch boat, according to the schedule. that is not correct, although he is sailing under the dutch flag. the boat is an initiative of a few dutch women and i find it surprising in that sense that it is on the agenda here. we're not going to talk about greenpeace boats and other organizations. i think it is important and i welcome a debate on ethical issues, mr president, such as abortion and women's rights, but here we are dealing specifically with this boat and the action on this boat. i find that action unfortunate. in portugal, they want to change the law, but in a democratic culture this is not the way to encourage another country to do so. a similar foreign intervention in the netherlands, for example, in the area of drugs or euthanasia, could also be met with a similar wave of protests in the netherlands. we need to debate each other in a different way, not like this. i also think this action is irresponsible, mr president. the boat was sailing to ireland without a licence, so even the dutch legislation, which is already quite extensive in this area, was not respected. there was a great deal of discussion about the use of the unapproved abortion pill when we left for poland, and now there is discussion about the aftercare that cannot be provided. women on waves has now published online how you can promote abortion yourself with over-the-counter medicines, and has immediately pointed out the huge risks that this entails. a little later, the boat sails away. i don't think this is a good way to promote what you want to promote. countries have different ideas about things like abortion. we must discuss this, mr president, and i welcome that. we are a community of values, too, but not in this way.
i would like to ask the commission to give its opinion on the right of european citizens to information, particularly the right of women to information. this right is also a key element of the lisbon strategy, which is to increase and share knowledge in the interest of women's sexual health and rights. the women on waves boat did not intend to export the achievements of the netherlands in the field of abortion to portugal, but wanted to inform portuguese women and men about their sexual rights in an objective way. what they do with it is up to them. two years ago, through the report by anne van lancker, this parliament adopted a resolution calling on governments to ensure that objective, scientific and clear information and education on sexual and reproductive health is provided. this included the prevention of unwanted pregnancies and the risks of unsafe abortions performed under inadequate conditions. the portuguese government has failed to take this house's resolution seriously by preventing the activities of women on waves which are aimed at providing information. meanwhile, the boat has left portugal. women on waves has announced that it will be back in portugal for the next elections. this could be a good opportunity for the portuguese government to respond to the resolution of this parliament and to show that it does not want to deprive its citizens of the right to information. mrs wallström, can the commission make a strong effort to put forward and implement best practices in the field of information on women's reproductive and sexual rights, for example by organising a conference on this subject in lisbon? (applause from the socialist group)
i am in full agreement with mr graça moura. i also do not understand why we are debating here in the european parliament a matter between portugal and a dutch-flagged action group. there is a court ruling and the matter is not within the competence of this parliament. that seems to be the end of the matter, but the question is not only legal but also moral. since when does the free movement of persons, goods and services include an attack on the legislation of another member state? because that's what's going on with women on waves here. in the nrc handelsblad last saturday, this organization calls on people to support the fight for free abortion in portugal. that is different from service, and it shows this organization what it is really about. that is something entirely different from giving information on board the borndief. i note that the dutch health inspectorate is conducting an investigation to assess whether the activities of women on waves are legally permitted. progressive activism seeks the limits of the law. abortus provocatus is not a matter of course in the netherlands either. at the time, only a slim majority supported a legal provision to allow abortion provocatus. a large minority still has great difficulty with the abortion legislation from the point of view of the protection of the dignity of life. the netherlands need not be a guiding country in this. i should like to answer the questions put to the commission by my colleagues. they argue that the european commission should take action on the basis of community law. article 28 of community law provides for the free movement of goods and services. article 30 of that community law provides that freedom of movement may not be applied for the purposes of protecting public morality, public policy, public security or public health. portugal therefore has every right to refuse entry to an action ship, even if that ship is there at the invitation of a portuguese organisation. what a privilege it is then that the member states of the european union still have the right to set their own policies! i therefore find it disrespectful that the european legislation should be used to try to justify the progressive. the portuguese government is to be commended for its concern to protect unborn life.
imagine that fanatical, aggressive anti-abortion activists come to the netherlands to protest abortion there with the kind of improper arguments that i have heard from that side of the house and they are stopped at the dutch border by the military police. then this house would be on its back foot. yes, abortion legislation is a national matter, but freedom of expression is a fundamental right of all european citizens throughout europe. every six minutes a woman dies somewhere in the world as a result of an illegal abortion, and in portugal alone there have been a hundred victims in the last two decades. the portuguese government's blocking of information and debate is therefore incomprehensible in this light and, in my view, a disgrace to democracy. our fellow europeans in portugal have the same right to information and debate as everyone else. i therefore count on the european commission to defend the fundamental rights of europe.
in writing. aviation has long been a privileged industry. the tax levied on land transport is not allowed as a result of old international agreements for aviation. this was a means of giving a newly emerging but economically weak form of international transport a chance of survival. now that's all changed. air traffic is growing rapidly, the old airlines are being supplanted by price-fighters, the inhabitants of the ever-growing airports are being sickened by noise pollution, global warming continues and international rail traffic is being destroyed by competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not left behind. in order to limit environmental damage, to pay for the costs of nuisance caused by aviation and to protect other modes of transport, air traffic should be subject to normal taxation. any new decision at world level which leads to the maintenance of the tax ban or which is an obstacle to reducing the burden is therefore unacceptable. it is astonishing that the largest group in the transport committee, both on 1 september and now, is opposing a resolution which seeks to put an end to the american drive to perpetuate privileged aviation.
in writing. in early 2003, a majority of this parliament was against the plan for a pre-emptive war in iraq. the argument for that war, the possession of weapons of mass destruction by the regime of saddam hussein, has now been proven to be false. thanks to the intervention of america and its allies in europe, iraq has been turned into a breeding ground for fundamentalist islamic resistance. the fear of the consequences of the withdrawal of the occupying forces now dominates european politicians. with or without immediate withdrawal, it is becoming urgent that europe detach itself from the american positions in iraq. america is looking for oil, contracts for american companies and replacing the euro with dollars for international contracts. it fails to repair power plants, water treatment plants, schools and hospitals. europe can take up this civil task and contribute to free elections by giving a fair chance to others besides the conservative religious forces and the satellites of america, such as the communists and the kurdish parties in the north. as long as there are european armies, it must be clear that they will do no more than that and will leave as soon as the iraqi people ask for it. i object to a resolution which does not call for this, but i naturally vote for the release of the hostages, although the chances of this succeeding are slim if we do not offer the iraqi people an improvement.
the summit in hanoi will take place on 8 and 9 october, and it is of course good to see it taking place, because the dialogue between asia and europe is of great importance. however, some footnotes should be made at the top. burma has already been mentioned, and i shall come back to that in a moment. first of all, i should like to say that the location of the summit in vietnam is certainly a catalyst for the reforms achieved in that country, but it should be noted that there is still a gap between the dream of a well-functioning and fair trading climate and reality. i have made a point of speaking in this house on many occasions - i did so in october 2001 and again a year ago - for example on the case of mr bin vinh trinh in vietnam. he had invested in his homeland after a long stay abroad, which was taken away from him under false pretenses. his possessions were confiscated and he was imprisoned. this was a dramatic event for him and his family, but above all a negative signal for potential investors in vietnam. i think that the vietnamese government should make a gesture at this point. secondly, human rights are and will continue to be a subject in other countries in the region. thailand can also serve as an example. the netherlands and the thai government have just signed an extradition treaty for the exchange of dutch prisoners who have been detained for long periods in thailand. it is good that this has happened, but in the case of a prisoner, machiel kuijt, with whom i am particularly concerned, it was agreed that he would appear before the court of cassation before 1 july. that has still not happened, and i hope that the thai government will keep its promise. the commission has also dealt with this matter in a positive way. it would be good if the council did the same. finally, burma has been mentioned, no other asian country has such a problem with human rights and democracy. they're not yesterday's problems either. of course, the liberals are proposing a dialogue on principle, but a dialogue in which both parties are taking part seriously, otherwise there is no point in sitting down together. i also believe that the other asian countries, especially the asean countries, which are so keen to see burma take part in these talks, also have a responsibility to ensure that burma finally takes this kind of dialogue seriously.
president, after the series of violent conflicts in the states of the former yugoslavia between 1992 and 2001, everyone hoped for a peaceful coexistence of the survivors. unfortunately, in vojvodina, where civilians have been bombed but no ethnic war has been fought, non-serbs are being harassed again by their neighbours. today we will again express our horror at this and call for peace and reconciliation. but merely putting condemnations and moral indignation on paper is not going to solve this problem. if we limit ourselves to that, i fear we will be able to repeat this kind of just resolution many times over, because it is not understood by the people concerned. we see violence and intimidation by ordinary citizens everywhere where there is a feeling that many of our own people are being excluded by state borders and that many others who were once seen as occupiers have been left behind in their own countries. the opinion of the serbian public is that the serb population of northern and eastern bosnia and northern kosovo are administratively unjustly cut off from the motherland and that the areas that are recognised as serb territory should therefore be made fully serb. anyone who opposes it is seen as an enemy and associated with former turkish and german occupations. political parties which share this feeling of many citizens can count on many votes, because they dare to do what many people want. on the 1856 map hanging on the second floor of this building, anyone can see how ethnically fragmented vojvodina was then between hungarians, croats, germans, slovaks, romanians and serbs. since its incorporation into serbia in 1918, it has steadily become more serbian and other groups have moved away or been expelled. since 1989 the autonomy of the large hungarian-speaking minority has also been severely curtailed. the recent riots fit into that long-term development. without clear and broad agreements on language rights, autonomy and administrative boundaries, future outbreaks of ethnic hatred in and around serbia can be difficult to prevent. so we have to do more than just adopt this resolution, but it is a step in the right direction. (applause from the left)
mr. speaker, you, as a member of this house, will one day find a large kitchen knife under your front door with the accompanying message: "we will slaughter you". could it be more shocking, more terrifying? this death threat, written in serbian, was sent to béla csorba, vice-president of the hungarian democratic party of vojvodina, on 9 april this year. this outrage against a member of the hungarian minority in the serbian province is by no means an isolated incident. it is not without reason that the motion for a resolution before us lists the concrete manifestations of physical and psychological violence to which serbian citizens of hungarian origin have been exposed for some time. how much hostility is there that the outside world doesn't know about? the atmosphere of fear and intimidation in vojvodina is marked by the fact that several victims of ethnic violence wish to remain anonymous. the extensive documentation available on the present situation of the hungarian minority in vojvodina paints a disturbing picture. if you speak hungarian as a teenager on the street or in a public place, you risk collective beatings by serbian peers. chances are the police will look the other way or quickly dismiss the incident as "not ethnically motivated". equally offensive are the texts of anti-hungarian graffiti. for example, at dawn on july 15, 2004, in the city of novisad, a wall was covered in cow lettering that read: "ok, ok hungarians, a deep mass grave awaits you". shortly before, in early may, numerous buildings in this vojvodina capital were smeared with graffiti arguing that "serbia belongs to serbs, hungarians: disappear!' mr president, in view of the undeniable radicalization of the political climate in vojvodina, i would like to emphasize paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution. the paragraph calls for a thorough on-the-spot investigation by the ep delegation for south east europe. in advance, i'm going to give this fact-finding mission a few urgent questions. i would also like to ask the council and the commission these questions. what about language education and other cultural facilities for the hungarian minority in vojvodina - think of newspapers, magazines, other media? how much money does the serbian government spend in total on public services for this specific ethnic group? in short, what exactly are the minority rights of the hungarians in vojvodina? the personal commitment this week by the dutch presidency that the council will examine the position of minorities in vojvodina was encouraging. then neither this house nor the commission can be left out. the attitude of the competent serbian authorities is, however, decisive. first and foremost, we call on them to work for human tolerance in vojvodina. (applause from the left)
- thank you, mr president. terror and trauma, an inseparable pair of concepts in the israeli/palestinian conflict, the two-sided results of the unilateral drive for destruction by the terrorist organizations hamas, islamic jihad and hezbollah. meanwhile, i read from the palestinian politician mustafa barghouti that "the silent majority of the palestinian population does not identify with the terrorists or the palestinian authority" (literal quote). the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. i would like to hear the council's high representative's response to this urgent appeal. the palestinian appeal is also a test of the european union's will to combat terrorism effectively. does the council and the commission consider that the conclusion of an association agreement with syria is compatible with this? my second question. it is well known that the assad regime facilitates hamas, islamic jihad and hezbollah in terrorist operations against the state of israel. the german press, die welt to be precise, published an article yesterday on the way in which terrorism is turning the israeli population into a traumatised nation. a trauma expert assures that israel is still a country of survivors. this is something that should be of interest to us in europe, not just in historical terms.
thank you, mr president. we are witnessing the drowning of people who are seeking a better life, and because we sensitive europeans cannot bear to see people drowning, it is proposed that the problem be left on the doorstep of north africa. that is not a solution, that is looking the other way, because what is really needed is the long-awaited european immigration policy, so that people can enter the european union legally. i also have a very specific question, mr president, which i have already put and which i have now also put in writing to the council, concerning fundamental rights and freedom of movement. what initiatives will the dutch presidency take to ensure that gay couples are recognised as married so that when they move to another eu country they are no longer at risk of losing their social security, pensions, property rights and the right to family reunification?
mr president, the generalised system of preferences offers trade advantages - as has already been said - to those countries which need them most. we in the european union have set and committed ourselves to the millennium development goals. these are primarily aimed at combating poverty. economic development is an important condition for this and we believe that this is the main objective of the review. it is a pity that we have to do this under time pressure now that india's complaint to the wto has been declared well founded. mr president, as regards the revision, our group believes that first of all - fortunately the commissioner has already said this - the poorest countries should not be left behind. where preferences have been eroded by reductions in the most favoured nation tariff, we therefore ask the commission to consider what more could be done in such cases. secondly, we believe that the graduation system should meet its objective of excluding only those countries or sectors which are sufficiently competitive on the market and no longer require gsp. we also believe that good governance should be included in the new sap+. finally, the revision should also lead to greater use by the countries most affected. what should be the most important instrument is now only used by 52%, the commissioner said 55%. the increase is good, but the result is not good enough. president. - i have two questions to the commission. the purpose of the revision of the gsp is good and clear. the aim is to make the system simpler, more transparent and more objective. we are of course in full agreement with the commission on this point. less clear is how exactly that can be achieved. for example, how does the commission intend to prevent the planned sap+ scheme, which will become a single scheme, from becoming so complex in terms of implementation, compliance and control that little of the proposed simplification and transparency remains in practice? the other question, which has been asked before, concerns evaluation. according to the communication, there is no evaluation or no proper evaluation. mr mandelson, and now mr lamy, have said that there is. if it is available, should parliament be able to have it quickly? thank you, sir.
the european union is a community of values, and we want to reflect this in the various regions of the world. we have basic services in the west, such as water, education and health care, and we want them to be available elsewhere. international trade is an important factor. trade receipts can help to increase investment in basic services. it is only in the third world countries, particularly on the african continent, that world trade plays too small a role. the african continent has only a 2% share. we in the european union can and must change that. it is of the utmost importance that we, as the world's largest trading bloc, open our markets to products from the least developed countries and, through positive sanctions, give the poorest countries a chance to develop. the present system of trade preferences has, as has been said, been limited in its practical effects, particularly in the social field. only sri lanka and moldova have scored on that point and even sri lanka - as mr sturdy has just said - has actually made too little use of the potential because of the complexity of the rules and the limited capacity. it is therefore good that we are moving towards a sap+ system which is much simpler and involves many fewer countries, but which also brings substantial advantages in terms of graduation and new products, which also creates real incentives. if we really want to see the basic labour standards in those countries - to name one large sector - respected in practice and given a chance, then we must concentrate really hard. we must prevent lobbying from leading us to a huge patchwork of targets and countries which actually benefit a great many people, but not the poorest countries. commissioner lamy deserves praise for his excellent work on the epa scheme and we must continue along that line here too. if the caribbean and the south pacific have special problems - and they do - let us try to solve them with them in a specific and generous way through the epas. let us play a little harder and make more demands on the basic labour standards of the new emerging powers, china, brazil and india. finally, we must not only have fair trade but also fair competition to protect our own workers. as regards the rules of origin, mr president, i ask the commission to promote benefits for the least developed countries and less stringent rules of origin, and to allow regional and development cumulation. finally, if we want to stimulate the regional economy, we must also be generous on this point. such a provocation, mr president, which is substantial and concentrated, could really help the african continent to take a step forward.
mr president, on the night of 26 to 27 september last it was two years ago that the ferry le joola sank off the coast of senegal. officially, 1,863 people died in this disaster. still, the majority of these bodies lie unidentified on the seabed. relatives, including the family of the dutch victims roel and lisette arendshorst, have repeatedly called on both senegalese president wade and european politicians to take action to rescue the victims of le joola. president wade responded positively in principle here in this parliament a year ago. we have also called on the european commission to take action on several occasions in this parliament. i therefore renew my appeal to the european commission, the council and president wade of senegal. the families of the victims deserve a dignified farewell from their loved ones. they are asking for a final resting place where they can mourn and are also looking for ways to identify the victims. i would like to ask you, mr president, to respect the values enshrined in the european constitution. respect for human dignity requires the support of the european union...
mr president, very recently two dutch members of parliament from which i myself come were refused entry to cuba. they were deported while on a trip to speak to human rights activists, so-called dissidents. this is typical of what is happening in cuba, because it fits into a systematic pattern. dissidents who could talk to us a few years ago are now often sentenced to long prison terms, including trade union leaders. it's going from bad to worse, including dealing with politicians like us. i can tell you from my own experience that before this happened, the embassy gate was also closed more than once and we were not even able to have a conversation. i say this, mr president, because i hear some people pleading for closer relations with fidel castro. i would say that it is precisely serious events of this kind which should lead us to continue the common policy as we know it at present.
president, mr trichet, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the presentation of your first annual report of the european central bank. i have looked at this report with more than normal interest. as rapporteur for the 2002 annual report, i was particularly interested in the way in which the wishes expressed by the european parliament in a resolution of july 2003 had been met. the european parliament then adopted a short and concise resolution which, in addition to political wishes, also mentioned practical wishes. in last year's resolution on the 2003 annual report, parliament asked the ecb in its first paragraph to set up a working group to examine the need for the introduction of the one-euro note. i personally do not see the need for the note, but in the interests of confidence in the currency i would like the bank to investigate this. on page 101 of your annual report you state that the governing council will review this issue in the autumn of 2004. my first question to you is why did you not follow up the european parliament's resolution and set up a working party? i would like to hear from you, now that it is autumn 2004, what the governing council has decided on the 1 euro note.
mr president, i should like to begin by making a comment to mr kuhne. we did not want a resolution on this issue. why not? - why not? because we should write in a resolution: 'we want every european to change their car now and to buy new opels and volkswagens.' we don't have a planned economy that can handle all this. we are simply dealing in our society with stagnating consumer demand. there is no confidence in the economy, not in europe, and certainly not in germany. this means that fewer cars are bought, and this has an impact on production. production units will then at least try to reduce production costs. they're going to automate, they're going to move businesses, et cetera. the reduction in production at volkswagen and opel is just the beginning of the need to take a different approach. what's the other way? i agree with you that we are asking workers to be much more flexible, to ensure that there is something that can be done about working conditions. however, these workers cannot solve the problem on their own. we must restore confidence in the economy, but the workers of the companies involved must also be supported, not only by the public authorities but also by the social partners, to tackle the problems together. i am not referring to the wage costs alone, because we have just heard from the commissioner that the wage costs in the eu are still below those in the united states. it is the wage-equality costs in particular that are destroying us in europe. we must therefore, and i think this is one of the points, try to reduce the wage costs, also through the lisbon process. i think that we will then have to produce results, also with the high-level group which i very much appreciate, with studies that will be coming soon. commissioner, on this point, i would like to express my appreciation, also on behalf of our group.
madam president, for the first time in the history of the european union, the appointment of the new commission has received a great deal of attention in all the european media. in part this is due to the very peculiar way in which mr buttiglione has spoken about the interpretation of fundamental civil rights in europe and the offensive remarks he has made about large groups of people. it is not just my group that finds these remarks intolerable and totally inappropriate for a future commissioner whose job it should be to defend the fundamental rights of every european citizen. the way in which the incoming president, mr barroso, has defended mr buttiglione up to now gives the impression that he is not very interested in the views held by large sections of this parliament. as you said this morning, there can be no question of a portfolio change. the problems surrounding mr buttiglione were brought to the fore by the open and direct way in which the european parliament heard the new commissioners. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the work done in the last four weeks in a very serious way is the basis for the final judgment we shall pass on this commission tomorrow. it is not just mr buttiglione's provocative statements. we also found that a number of other candidate commissioners did not always have the knowledge and commitment required for the demanding role they would have to fill over the next five years. the thorough and serious way in which parliament has carried out its task in the hearings has brought to light the failings of a number of candidates. this is true of the almost total lack of european involvement of the new latvian commissioner, mrs udre. the same applies to the tangle of conflicts of interest which will prevent the dutch commissioner-designate, mrs kroes, from carrying out her duties in a number of important cases, either in full or in part. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. it is equally important that during the hearings only a few of the future commissioners appeared to have a clear vision of the role of the european union. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the treaty, but also a means of ensuring that the community's objectives are achieved. the social democrats want the european union to play a strong role in the world and to use effective multilateralism to strengthen peace and democracy. europe should offer a clear and coherent alternative to the unilateral approach of the united states. it is disappointing that the commission has not come up with many innovative ideas on this point during the hearings. the open and direct way in which the european parliament greeted the future members of the commission has raised high expectations. over the past four weeks we have shown the citizens of europe that we want a new commission with competent and integrity-based managers who also have clear ideas about the future course of europe. the european citizens expect us to make a clear statement tomorrow on the commission presented by mr barroso. although some of the candidate commissioners clearly meet the high standards we set, our assessment of the college as a whole cannot be positive at this time, not even after this morning. (applause from the left)
president, the two dutch members of the ind/dem group are very displeased with the commotion that has arisen over statements by the commissioner-designate, mr buttiglione. and that's a weak word. this is discrimination on grounds of religious belief, and the european parliament should not be offended by this. the term 'tolerance' and 'tolerance' is used to mean only what progressive europe itself wants to hear. buttiglione has never called for the rights of women and gays to be violated. he has only given his personal opinion on an explicit question. that's acceptable under state law. however, there was a deliberate search for a stick to beat the dog with. it seems that a minister in berlusconi's cabinet is unacceptable in advance. the european parliament, by voting in this way, is trying to influence the individual commissioners indirectly. as dutch members of the ind/dem group, we see the present proposal for the composition of the new european commission as a reason to vote in favour. (applause from the left)
in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we have heard four candidates for commissioners, two gentlemen and two ladies. while we have great respect for your attempt to get more women into the commission, unfortunately we have some problems with the two ladies in this commission. the answers and the responses to these problems have not yet been fully provided by you. as regards mrs kroes, we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs asked you to publish the legal opinion on the basis of which she has drawn up the code of conduct which she intends to use to avoid conflicts of interest. she herself agreed to its publication at the hearing. can you tell us why that has not yet happened? a second question was about clarification on your part on how you are handling the cases she is avoiding in connection with her past relationships. you're handling the cases yourself? are you also forming a working party for this purpose? how can you guarantee that there are no other conflicts of interest and that these cases are dealt with appropriately? then the other candidate, mrs udre. it has repeatedly stated at the hearing that it is not responsible for the suspicion of its party concerning the receipt of anonymous donations. it's very difficult for us to judge. we have asked you to investigate or have the facts investigated and to provide us with the information and your assessment. that question is still on the table and we would like to have an answer to it.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to join in the thanks of all, not only to commissioner schreyer but also to our rapporteur, mr garriga. he made sure that i could still maintain my good temper occasionally. the committee on budgets, mr president, has sought to simplify matters in a number of respects, and this has been done at the expense of a number of amendments which we have tabled in the committee on employment and social affairs. the committee on budgets has in fact introduced a division in all its amendments. that means that the committee on budgets voted en bloc first on the amendments relating to the agencies and then on everything relating to lisbon, the information strategy and pilot projects. this means that the basis for this vote is taken as a whole, the commitments and payments for 2004. that is not easy, mr president, because it does not take into account the fact that 10 new member states have been added and that new activities must also be developed for those 10 new member states. for example, bilbao has been given additional tasks in the context of smes, and it is not easy to keep them within the 2004 budget. the committee on employment and social affairs is therefore not happy that our amendments have not been accepted on a number of points. we hope that the amendments tabled by the socialist group on social matters, as well as our own amendments, will be adopted. i would very much like to drink a toast to our future cooperation with my colleague mr ferber again tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. the technical office and the information which the workers' organizations have proposed, we hope to be able to reach agreement again. i would like to thank both mr ferber and the rapporteur in advance for the way they have treated us.
i would also like to begin by thanking mrs schreyer for the great work she has done and i would like to thank her in particular for the open attitude she has always adopted in this european parliament. i have always had a good dialogue with her, especially when i was rapporteur for this year's budget. i should also like to thank mr garriga. i am very pleased that he has taken over some of the initiatives i took last year for this year. i must also return to the commission immediately on this point, because the amending note for next year's agricultural budget contains two more initiatives on the quality of agricultural products and the future financing of contagious animal diseases. i think we should at least look into how that is going to happen. looking back over the last few years, my motto has always been: we must be economical with european money. if i look at the size of the european budget in recent years, we have clearly adhered to that too. we must not break the financial perspective if we do not have to, but i must immediately add that the council has made it very difficult for us. what is the point of creating new agencies every year without also providing the necessary financial resources? moreover, the council itself can hardly decide on the location of these agencies. sometimes they come to the strangest parts of europe and are temporarily housed elsewhere. that too must be paid for. then the move must be paid for again and everything must be brought forward by the programmes which parliament finds attractive. i think that is a wrong attitude and i think it is therefore a good thing that we should raise this matter properly. it is not possible for one branch of the budgetary authority to take decisions unilaterally which have financial consequences without indicating how they are to be financed in the future. for category 3, i am still a big supporter of one aspect, namely the financing of smes through investment aid, through the european investment fund in luxembourg. i think we should give as many opportunities as possible to small and mediumsized enterprises, to private initiative and especially in the new member states, because in some of them there is still a lack of a good and healthy banking sector. it is therefore good that this year too an amendment has been adopted in the budget at first reading to support this kind of thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. i think it is inevitable, as was the case last year, to call again on the flexibility reserve.
i would like to respond to my colleague, mr gollnisch. he claims that france is the biggest contributor to the european union, but that's my country. as far as the agricultural part is concerned, i should like to say that 40% goes to france and in my country 60% of farmers and gardeners have to do without any european contribution. i am also fighting for french agriculture, but he must be able to give the figures correctly. i am very much against the council's approach to agricultural spending. the major reform of 2004 - listen carefully, mr gollnisch - is putting a great deal of pressure on incomes, particularly for european farmers. in some cases, they are cut in half. that is why i am strongly opposed to excessive cuts in the agricultural budget, particularly in export subsidies. i am glad that the commission is willing to rectify this in part, and i am also glad of the efforts of the rapporteur, who has shown his good will in the field of agriculture and is willing to fall back on the commission's initial initiative and to rectify this error of the council of ministers. i would also like to ask the house to follow the proposals of the committee on fisheries on the establishment of regional fisheries councils. at the moment there is a huge gap between what is happening in brussels and what the fishermen are experiencing. it is precisely these regional advisory councils that can bridge the gap between what is happening in brussels and how to deal with it in practice. parliament therefore has every reason to cooperate and to try to build that bridge. i am also glad that the rapporteur is at least prepared to continue to equip and equip the european maritime agency, despite his critical attitude towards agencies. this is essential to provide greater maritime safety for our coastal communities. my last point concerns the animal diseases. i know there are proposals to investigate further. as far as i am concerned, the research phases are over and i welcome the initiatives of the dutch presidency to organise two major conferences, both in parliament in november and in the council in december, to come up with a better european policy on protection against animal diseases, such as avian influenza in thailand and in asia. this is a much more powerful approach than to replenish a research fund, because we know a lot by now, but we still have not brought the political will to combat the risks of infectious animal diseases very effectively.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the social democrats are concerned about the dutch presidency. we fear that you are pushing europe ever further into the conservative corner and thereby effectively trading the lisbon agenda for a right-wing agenda. working harder and longer for the same pay instead of tackling global competition by maintaining protection and by producing smarter, by investing more in people and in knowledge networks and also creating space in public resources for that. that is why i am voting against the report, because i believe that the commission has a duty to do so. at the same time, we are concerned that you are absent at crucial moments in the political drama that will reach its climax here this morning. while government leaders like verhofstadt in belgium and persson in sweden are saying loud and clear that they do not want a man like buttiglione in their own house or in the european government, it is not enough to send a signal to commission president barroso that he must step in and meet the clear wish of the majority of the european parliament. in fact, minister bot even says he's on board with buttiglione. as frank and free as you are in your talk about reducing the burden and cutting costs, the dutch presidency is so absent from the statements of the commissioner-designate who is a threat to european standards and values. those standards and values that you yourself so passionately advocate. the dutch presidency is absent, and yesterday morning it was absent in person, just when the citizens seem to be seized by political passion. the dutch presidency, however skilled in its technical skills, is politically divided and thus becomes a blank slate. europe deserves better, more social, stronger and, above all, more democratic. we challenge you, the dutch presidency, to show more profile and political face. the european citizen has a right to that, starting with a clear statement by the council which now asks barroso to meet the demands of the european parliament. or are your words about a strong european parliament really a sham? it's your choice. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, after this debate parliament can show that it is not a puppet of the council and the commission. if the new european commission is voted out under the dutch presidency, it will be remembered for a long time as the moment when european democracy took a step forward. the commission that will be set up will not have a different political composition, but it is in everyone's interest to remove the most controversial candidates. this applies both to candidates who have a tradition of prioritizing their own business interests and to candidates who want to maintain the disadvantaged position of women and gays. the important news is that the media are reporting that mr prodi and mr kok are finally acknowledging that the main objective of the lisbon agenda of 2000 cannot be achieved. the measures adopted to give greater scope and freedom to large international companies will not lead to the most competitive economy. the failure of lisbon is opening up new opportunities for europe. it 's time for a new objective: europe as the most social economy in the world. that was the original bet in 2000. the mistake was then made of confusing the long-standing desire for a social europe with the search for as many jobs as possible in the commercial sector. that mistake has now led to the proposal for a services directive which puts national legislation and collective agreements in competition with each other, to further privatisations which lead to lower quality at higher costs, and again to a port directive which would further destroy the work of port workers. we're one of the richest places in the world. our problems are the disintegration of society and environmental pollution. these problems will not be solved by ever-increasing economic growth at any cost. not growth, but a better distribution of what we already have needs much more attention. instead of maintaining a crippling stability pact that seriously undermines the role of democratically elected government as a problem solver, we can strive for better public services, livelihood for all and the fair sharing of available labor. we have the means to actively combat poverty, indifference, crime, the destruction of nature and the degradation of the environment. that is the new challenge after the failure of lisbon. (applause from the left)
president, thank you to minister nicolaï for his presentation. i think he has made three very important points on behalf of the council. first of all, the lisbon agenda. i agree with all those who say that after all the nice words, it is time for real action. it is time we really took the lead as a european economy. i think it is good that there has been a certain change of paradigm. not with those big plans that some have for a 'supercommissioner' or something like that, not just from above, but more focused on the countries themselves: where are the good examples, how can we support them? a bottom-up approach, with special attention to the regional dimension, to better link a european policy with an efficient national policy, for example by encouraging top-level technical regions. these success factors must be supported, but this also means that we must better monitor whether national parliaments are actually doing their part of the deal. perhaps his excellency could elaborate on that. secondly, the issue of terrorism. there have been many fine words spoken about that. but how is it possible, mr president, that so soon after that dramatic attack in your own country, spain, when it was said here that the security services really need to work together better - we said that on 11 september 2001 - that momentum seems to be slipping away again, and it is again considered less important? how can we really achieve cooperation in the fight against terrorism before the weather turns bad? the third point, tampere. this is a crucial point if we are to maintain the credibility of a social union. we must act decisively. it is no longer acceptable that we, through various policies, allow human smugglers to smuggle hundreds of thousands of people a year across the internal borders of our union like cattle. i therefore fully agree with the council, mr president, that qualified majority voting and co-decision should be used. we must be determined to continue along this path, because it is time for europe to really solve the problems of the people. i would therefore say to those who may be hoping for a victory against the commission this afternoon: i am aware that many people on the streets will be confused because they do not understand that the union is shooting itself in the foot when there is so much to do.
president, the dutch ambassador for human rights has stated this week, on the eve of the eu-india summit in the hague at the beginning of november, that the violation of the rights of 260 million casteless dalits is an international human rights problem. despite democracy and the rule of law in the world's largest democracy, the practice is different in a number of respects. caste discrimination is illegal in india, but it is practiced. i am in favour of explicitly addressing this issue in our bilateral and multilateral trade talks and in the rightly advocated broad eu-india partnership presented here. i believe that positive support can help to give the partnership a commitment to combat social isolation, child labour, exploitation and unfair trade in a joint way. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the field of vocational training. it has to be done there, but it is precisely this kind of international trade problem, a truly international legal problem of 260 million people, that deserves this joint approach, not only in india but in other countries as well. i hope we have the courage to take up this broader partnership in this way.
the european parliament, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has called on the authorities in belarus to ensure that the parliamentary elections held on 7 october last were free and fair and to refrain from holding a referendum on the constitutional amendments. this constitutional amendment would in theory allow the current president, mr lukashenko, to remain in power for life. i called it an imminent constitutional coup. we have to say, unfortunately, that our appeal has been in vain - and this is not the first time. the authorities have not sought to repair the damage of previous violations of the rights of opposition candidates. there was no fair and balanced media coverage, and the osce concluded that the parliamentary elections did not meet international standards. that was true of the referendum campaign as well. the result, a turnout of around 90%, of whom over 75% voted for the constitutional amendment, is widely suspected. no opposition candidate was elected to the parliament. since the elections, small but steady non-violent protests have taken place in minsk almost daily, and have been violently suppressed without exception. this situation calls for action. there can be no doubt that in this situation there is no room for strengthening relations with the regime in belarus. it must be absolutely clear to mr lukashenko that rapprochement is out of the question as long as his regime does not commit itself to making efforts towards democratic reforms. in these circumstances, lukashenko will remain isolated internationally, but the power of this lever is limited. we must also try to contribute to the changes for the better in belarus by supporting the democratic opposition in belarus. the us congress last week passed a belarus democracy act which takes measures that europe should also consider. and finally, this. i have now chaired the delegation of observers to parliamentary and presidential elections in belarus on a number of occasions, and my frustration at the lack of change, despite all our efforts, is still very great. the policy proposed by the council and the commission is one which we wholeheartedly support, but the key to change lies, in my view, first and foremost with the other neighbour of belarus, not the eu, but russia. i would like to call again on the council to engage more vigorously in the dialogue with moscow, because i have only just seen that at the time when we rejected the elections, on the same day there was a telegram from president putin congratulating mr lukashenko for the umpteenth time on the successful elections.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, ukraine is at the heart of the european union's neighbourhood policy because of its location - between the european union and russia - its size and its historical connection with our part of europe. the democratization of ukraine is one of the main challenges for the neighbourhood policy, which aims to strengthen relations with the countries surrounding the european union. the developments in ukraine are of course also an important indicator of the success of this neighbourhood policy. the presidential elections this weekend and the second round a few weeks later are central to these developments. the choice is, in simplified terms, between the present course of a semi-democratic regime on the one hand and the european course of the democratic opposition on the other. the government, president kuchma, with the oligarchs who support him in the background, and russian president putin who began a multi-day visit to ukraine yesterday, are backing their own candidate, prime minister yanukovych. despite some formal reforms, it has a poor record in terms of press freedom, freedom of expression and guaranteeing an open and fair democratic process. in the run-up to the election, numerous incidents have been reported, including most notably, the mysterious illness of the main opposition candidate yushchenko. we are very concerned about that. we are, however, pleased that, as commissioner verheugen has already said, a real electoral campaign is under way in the country, and we hope that these campaigns will continue. nevertheless, it is questionable whether the elections will receive the full approval of the international observers, our own and those of the osce. i support the call by commissioner verheugen that these observers should take their responsibility, which is very, very great, very seriously. the declarations made after such an election often have a major impact on relations between the european union and the country concerned. we therefore call on the ukrainian authorities to ensure equal access to the media for all candidates in the final days before the first round of the presidential elections, to repair what can be repaired and to continue to work for a fair campaign in the second round, because that will of course be the most important, so that the people of ukraine can form their own opinion. ukraine has expressed its desire to cooperate even more closely with the european institutions and to strengthen relations with the european union. the strengthening of ties with the european union can only continue if ukraine shows that it takes its own democracy seriously, because a disruption of the democratic process in these elections could put a heavy strain on relations between the european union and ukraine.
president. - there are many reasons for being pessimistic about the fair and honest conduct of the presidential elections in ukraine. the vote will take place in two rounds. it is therefore of great importance that the so-called interim period from 31 october to 21 november 2004 be closely monitored by the european parliament in this ukrainian election campaign. i therefore expressly call on the european institutions to do so. the european union should also not be concerned with who will emerge victorious from the battlefield, but how. if this has been done unlawfully, i expect the council and the commission to send a clear signal to kiev. the international isolation of ukraine may be detrimental to the interests of the member states of the union, but business as usual should not be allowed to continue. finally, a very pressing question: how does the council view the apparent interference of the russian president in the ukrainian presidential elections? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it.
council. mr president, it is very clear from remarks made by members that the european parliament is following closely developments in ukraine. let me talk specifically about the election process and eu activities concerning the election, because a lot of members made remarks about that. as i said, we follow the elections very closely. the basis for our opinion on the process will be the report of the osce election observation mission. the eu provides about half of the observers for this mission. on a national basis, several member states provide funding to ngos that want to contribute to a free and fair election process. in any case, the eu will not remain quiet once the first round of the elections has been completed. we will issue a declaration clearly expressing our opinion about the election process. some members - mr tannock and mr wiersma - spoke of the possible poisoning of the opposition candidate, viktor yushchenko. we are worried by these reports, but i do not want to speculate about what happened. i am just happy that he is alive and able to continue campaigning, thus maintaining the broad field of candidates from which the ukrainian people can choose.
the commission. when i was asked what would actually change in the european union in the context of the accession of eight central and eastern european countries on 1 may this year, i said: a very important change will be that we will have to take more care of our neighbours ukraine, belarus and russia. i am glad that this afternoon has proved that this prediction has come true, even though i do not agree with everything that has been said here, especially by the polish colleagues. i think it is right, however, that the representatives of our new member states should take this opportunity to draw attention to the particular problems of their region. i only spoke once more because i wanted to counter the impression that we are, so to speak, neutral observers in relation to ukraine. we are not, we are very active in this country because it is so important to us. mrs schroedter, our activities are precisely what you have asked for, namely the promotion of civil society, and there have been some successes. it's not like everything we have to draw here is black. i felt that in this debate we were, on the whole, in complete agreement as to what we wanted and how we were going to get it. the link between political reform in ukraine and european perspective - that's the real question here! does a clear european perspective help the democratic forces in ukraine to gain a better foothold? my answer is a resounding yes. i am firmly convinced that a truly convincing european perspective will help this country. and that is precisely why we have offered ukraine with the action plan a policy which starts with this action plan, because it is a policy of different, successive steps, and the steps will bring us ever closer together. i have always been very clear in my talks with president kuchma about where this is going to lead, and ukraine itself says that it understands that it will one day lead to the european union. i think that the country should not be denied such an ambition. my final comment: i do not entirely agree with the remarks made this afternoon, for example that we should have more understanding of the democratic deficits in ukraine, the country is having a hard time, it is a young democracy that has only been independent for 12 years. with your permission. estonia, latvia and lithuania have also only been independent for 12 years. and we have asked these three countries to meet our political and democratic standards in full, which they have been able to do. although they come from a similarly difficult past as ukraine. i am in favour of our being demanding towards ukraine too, of telling the democratic forces in that country what we expect from them. the comparison with a small child drawn here this afternoon is not accurate in my eyes. a small child is taken by the hand or occasionally slapped when necessary. both are not possible in relation to ukraine, and in both cases the picture is not correct. ukraine is not a child, it is a very confident, important and mature country, and i think we can already ask this country to behave like an adult.
i am very sorry, mr president, that i did not come here until the end of the debate on ukraine, because i was having a parallel meeting of the parliament's delegation for relations with israel. i may have missed it, but i asked the dutch representative of the council a pertinent question about the council's view of the explicit political intervention of the kremlin in these ukrainian presidential elections. the council may have responded to that. if not, my question remains open. i have also put it in the language of the council representative and would like to have an answer.
in european policy we have for many years considered the precautionary principle to be an important starting point and we will soon be dealing with a substantial piece of legislation on chemicals in this parliament which is based on it. in environmental policy too we try to prevent new technical developments from harming flora and fauna. as for the new sonars now under discussion, i can be brief. we see cases of marine mammal stranding where hearing loss is found in those animals. these strandings are taking place in areas where ships are sailing equipped with a new type of super-loud sonar. the combination of these data tells us that these sonars appear to be harming marine mammals. i believe that we should apply the precautionary principle here too and therefore temporarily ban the use of these types of sonar in european waters until it is shown that there is another cause or until a definitive ban is imposed if the damage is indeed caused by these sonars. the amendment tabled by the ppe group. i understand that restrictions may be placed on the protected areas, but in order to send the strongest possible signal to the council and the commission, it seems to me wise to maintain the current text of the resolution.
in writing. the dutch members of the ind/dem group voted against the european budget for 2005, as amended by the european parliament. despite our positive appreciation of certain european policies, such as environmental, agricultural and internal market policies, we believe that the budget as amended by parliament is spending far too much money on matters which - according to the principle of subsidiarity - should not be included in the european union's work. the commission's proposals are aimed at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union, and at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft constitution, and the commission has been asked to give its opinion on the draft constitution. finally, we do not agree with the approach of increasing appropriations as much as possible to the ceilings, instead of pursuing an economical, controlled and responsible use of taxpayers' money.
in writing. india is a large federally organized parliamentary democracy with diverse languages and cultures. as a result, india is seen by some here as a kind of eu for south asia and, moreover, as a buffer against the mistrusted islamic world. some in this parliament therefore want to emphasize alliance and close economic cooperation, aimed at mutual benefit, without paying any further attention to the major unresolved problems of human rights and the threat of war. despite the current laws, indian society is still divided into castes, and some 150 million people are untouchables, considered untouchable by others. in the countryside, in particular, they are condemned to the dirtiest and worst-paid jobs. previous governments, based on hindu nationalism, have no longer made any effort to lift their discrimination. they have also failed to find a solution for kashmir, where the majority of the population is muslim and has felt occupied for more than half a century. the problems of other minorities have not been solved either. i reject the current predominant emphasis from the eu on commercial interests at the expense of peaceful coexistence and human rights. international solidarity with the disadvantaged and their organisations in india will continue to be of great importance in the years to come.
in writing. in belarus, two visions are very sharply opposed. a third of the population sees themselves as a western frontier region of russia, sharing the same language, culture and religion. they consider their territory to be more important than other parts of russia, because it is located on the routes connecting them with the eu countries. they regard the current president lukashenko as a guarantor of stability and security of life in the midst of the turmoil in their neighbouring countries. another third of the population sees belarus as a state with its own language and culture, a buffer between poland and russia, which can join the eu. the supporters of this view are being severely opposed by the current regime, which is obstructing in every possible way organizations, newspapers, demonstrations, minority religious services, education in one's own language and opposition election campaigns. that's why the victims experience their country as a dictatorship. between these two visions there is an intermediate group with no clear opinion that does not oppose. lukashenko wants to remain in power and play an important role alongside putin in a great russia. since it can only do so by suppressing others, it is right that the plans for externally organised radio broadcasting and education in the belarusian language developed from poland and lithuania should be supported by the eu as a whole.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the proliferation of cluster munitions. i would personally prefer to advocate a ban on cluster munitions, but the cluster munitions coalition, which includes a fairly broad group of ngos and which probably realistically assesses the situation on the international scene with regard to negotiations on a protocol, has advocated a temporary moratorium, because that seems to be the most likely outcome. after all, that's what politics is all about, as we've seen these days, the threat of real power and majority. of course, if we succeed - and we have the broad support of this parliament - this will require the commitment of the council, the commission and the member states. we need a new protocol to deal with all the humanitarian problems associated with cluster munitions. these were again raised in a hearing of the committee on development and cooperation. we have seen how much of this ammunition ends up in the poorest countries in the world, from afghanistan to the falklands, and even closer to us in serbia and montenegro. 78 countries still have some 400 million antipersonnel and antivehicle mines in stock, and this shows that there is also a huge stockpile in our 15 member states, of which 10 are still producing. of course, this can only be addressed by international agreements. we need a protocol. this requires tough and intensive negotiations, and it is europe that can speak with one voice. we are all in favour of this. the red cross and the un are on our side. i would actually like to ask my colleagues in the epp to come to us on this point. i can't imagine we don't have some common ground here. maybe it's not easy with buttiglione, but with the cluster bombs, it's got to be.
mr president, today this parliament would again express its indignation at the continued discrimination against women, at torture, censorship, the imprisonment of people who are not punishable by european standards, the death penalty and, in particular, the killing of children in iran. although the aggressive and ultra-conservative iranian government enjoys the support of only a minority of the population, it has little reason to worry about europe's solidarity with the iranian people. the justified condemnations from europe are being overtaken by a very different practice. last week, the french news agency afp reported that the three largest member states of the european union had reached a mutually beneficial agreement with iran. in exchange for a limitation of iranian developments in the field of atomic energy and possibly nuclear weapons, the iranian democratic opposition in exile would be kept on the list of terrorist organizations. we in europe have no problem whatsoever with these exiles. the only one who suffers is the iranian regime. the designation of organisations as terrorist organisations should not be a bargaining chip. why, when the neighbouring countries of iraq and afghanistan have been dealt with extremely harshly, is this regime in iran being treated as if it had eternal life?
i would like to thank you, mr president, once again for accepting the plant basket which symbolizes european nature and biodiversity. the planting bin is a gift from the european habitat forum, which represents millions of europeans. we also want to point out to the other members that we now have a nice piece of green in brussels, on the ground floor near the post office. we must work together to ensure that this happens, but we must also ensure that the natura 2000 network receives sufficient financial resources to protect europe's biodiversity, which is badly needed. i would ask all members to take a walk along the plantation next week and reflect on the importance of nature and natura 2000.
i would like to thank you, mr president, in particular for the words of support and solidarity which you have just addressed to the netherlands on behalf of the european parliament. as is well known, on 2 november last year the dutch filmmaker and columnist theo van gogh was brutally murdered by an islamic extremist. in response to this, several attacks have already been carried out in the netherlands on mosques and islamic schools. the european union has not yet strongly and loudly condemned these acts of terror as a matter of concern to all of europe. the reasons for this are the subject of much speculation. the council would not dare to debate islamic extremism at this time if the events were to be considered an exclusive dutch matter. i do not know whether these speculations are correct, but a condemnation of the whole of the eu would be very welcome. we must not avoid a debate on islam in europe, if only to unite all the moderate forces - religious or not - in order to isolate and combat extremism and racism. the events in the netherlands can happen anywhere in europe, and the netherlands and its citizens could use the solidarity and support of the eu.
president, arms supplies from eu member states to third countries must be subject to a common and clear framework, which is binding and verifiable. that is, of course, a prerequisite if we are to have a truly responsible european policy. it is simply a pity that some of the countries, as mr nicolaï has said, are still obstructing such a binding framework. three important criteria for evaluation are the classical human rights policy and, of course, the practice resulting from it in a country, regional tensions in a particular area and also the relationship between what a country spends on poverty reduction on the one hand, and the size of the defence budget on the other. if you look at the request from china and now also from a number of countries within europe to lift that arms embargo, you really have to weigh that against those criteria. the human rights situation is a constant and justifiable concern in the eu. on the one hand, china has signed up to essential conventions, but on the other hand, there is a practice that deviates from them. the treatment of dissidents, ethnic and religious minorities and the widespread use of the death penalty are simply very worrying. the severe restrictions on freedom of expression and on labour rights such as trade union and strike rights also remain a major concern. the other point, regional development, is also obvious. these tensions are present on a geopolitical level. finally, the economic point. china is, of course, a society of enormous change, with enormous economic dynamism, which is also characterized by a hard-core capitalism that is gigantic in nature, and by great economic growth. but there are also big losers. the inequality is that some 200 million people in this country are job-seekers, living below the poverty line, with all the social unrest that goes with it. in this situation, economic change must be accompanied by thorough political reform and social democracy. i therefore wholeheartedly support the line which my group in this parliament has always followed, namely that the arms embargo must not be lifted now. i would also like to stress the need for dialogue with china, a major player both economically and politically. we must try to promote the process of democratization and help solve social problems. we must help china to play its role as a global player effectively and fairly, in the interests of the international legal order.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate commissioner patten, who is actually here in extra time, on the role he has played in the balkans in recent years and in particular in the former yugoslavia. despite his gloom over the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina, i think it is a positive thing that after all these years the european union has achieved its ambition to launch a major operation, and that in the former yugoslavia. after the dayton accords of 1995, nato took responsibility for the stabilization force in bosnia and herzegovina. as the european union's common security and defence policy is taking shape, it is a logical step for the european union to take responsibility for stability in the heart of its own continent. it is therefore a good step that the european union is to dismantle the nato stabilisation force in bosnia and herzegovina at the end of this year. althea is an important test of the european union's defence ambitions. the operation, with an initial force of 7,000 troops, is considerably larger than previous european union operations such as concordia in macedonia and artemis in congo. from an operational point of view, the mission is building on sfor. althea has the same robust mandate which, in our view, also ensures the safety of our military personnel to the best of our ability. the experience gained by nato in bosnia and herzegovina can be used, but the political responsibility will be on the european union, so that the european union can demonstrate that it can play a joint external role on a larger scale than before. my experience is that the general attitude in bosnia is positive towards this mission. everyone i spoke to during a recent visit to bosnia and herzegovina welcomes the european union's increased involvement. at the same time, as has already been mentioned, there are still tensions between the various parts of the country. while the bosnian croat federation is clearly seeking closer ties with europe on the way to eu membership, there is still a reluctance in the republika srpska to cooperate with the hague tribunal. the operation shall contribute to the further stabilisation of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. althea should contribute to the best possible extent to the building of the state of bosnia-herzegovina, the rule of law, the police and the army and stable democratic structures, so that the country can integrate into european structures. finally, and this should be the ambition of the european union in my view, this country as a whole, the state of bosnia-herzegovina, must be able to stand on its own feet. there is no endpoint for the eu mission at the moment, but it cannot be the intention that a military force simply remains until bosnia is ready to join the european union. there is no realistic timetable for this yet, but accession to the eu is a civilian operation, not a military one, so to speak. only a functioning state that can guarantee its own security can also apply for membership of the european union in a credible manner. the aim is therefore normalisation, and it is therefore necessary that the european council, which has decided on this mission, should also develop as soon as possible a sort of exit strategy which might be linked to the stabilisation and association process. such an exit strategy will also require the eu to further intensify its engagement with developments in bosnia and herzegovina. only if it is worked on from the outset can althea make a substantial contribution to the ultimate objective of sub-stabilising bosnia and herzegovina in the european integration process.
president. - in the light of recent history, it is difficult to say that european involvement in the western balkans has been a resounding success. to stabilize the troubled balkans, as the german publication aptly titled it, assistance from across the atlantic was necessary. after all, we don't have nato for nothing. it is precisely this continuing involvement of nato, including the european mission althea in bosnia-herzegovina, that gives me some comfort. in fact, this whole so-called european operation is part of transatlantic cooperation based on the 'berlin plus' arrangement between the european union and nato. i draw this conclusion, mr president, from the letter from the dutch presidency to the dutch parliament of 9 november. mr president, the althea mission is already calling for european modesty. i am convinced that this is a very serious question about the usefulness and the need for a european security and defence policy. the european union is not a military force, but a political force, and it is not a military force, but a political force.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the european agency for reconstruction has had a significant positive impact on the image of the european union in the balkans. until 2000, the european union was essentially a bureaucratic monster that either failed to deliver on all its promises or delivered them far too late. after 2000, the european union, through the agency, was indeed able to provide rapid and efficient assistance in often difficult circumstances. never before has it been shown that such a large proportion of the money allocated to relief has actually been spent. again, i give you credit for that. that said, the question remains, and we have discussed this with the commissioner on several occasions as a parliament, which is exactly the idea behind the commission why a particular task is carried out by the bureau or by the various offices of the bureau or by the decentralised delegations, the embassies of the european union. the commission may not say it out loud, but it does occasionally suggest that it is a bit of a nuisance on the part of parliament that we keep insisting on it. the reason for this is that we want to avoid any further ambiguity. i'll give you an example. there is a strong possibility that the european union will be given more tasks in kosovo in the course of next year and in 2006: less un, less unmic and more european union. does this mean a bigger role for the bureau or does it mean a bigger delegation and a bigger embassy? it is important for parliament to know this, because we as a parliament have to make difficult and difficult political and financial decisions. i will not hide from you, mr president, that i too feel a certain melancholy. this debate is the last of many debates we have had with the commissioner. i think that one of the reasons for the commissioner's popularity in this parliament is that he has given the european union's balkan policy a face, a voice, and he has done it in a splendid way. i want to thank him for that too. i wish the balkans a good successor and i wish the commissioner, above all, much pleasure in the governance of oxford university and in writing fine books.
commission. mr president, there were one or two points made during the debate which i should address very briefly. i hope that when these debates are held in future without my attendance they will, if i may say so, have as broad a base as possible in the points of view we hear. i should like to say to mr samuelsen that the commission would be perfectly content to hold a debate on the western balkans in december. mr duff spoke about the trade regulation being done within three months. again – speaking for myself – the commission would be perfectly happy to accommodate that reasonable request. a couple of other members suggested that we should concentrate our support on one place: famugusta. that would not be sensible. we have to spread our assistance more generally than that. i wish to make three other points. first, on the agency based in thessaloniki, i would like without reservation to thank the greek government for its hospitality. it provided the facilities we have used in thessaloniki. it was an imaginative proposal by the last government, which has been continued by the present one. it has given us a splendid headquarters. everybody who has worked in the agency is grateful for that and certainly, on behalf of the commission, i am also very grateful. second, mr lagendijk made the point – although he was too kind to put it this way – that there is a degree of intellectual incoherence, which i accept, between the policy which i have pursued vigorously around the world of deconcentrating our management of assistance and what we have been doing in the western balkans, which is to establish an agency rather than simply deconcentrate to our delegations. i have to say to justify that decision that my main concern – particularly given the position in the western balkans and given the position in kosovo, serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia – the position was so difficult it seemed to me that the most important thing was delivery of assistance. since the agency has been so effective it was not right to dismantle it and i thought it sensible to continue to use it as our main instrument for managing assistance. so, i plead guilty to a degree of intellectual incoherence, but the record of the agency has justified it. finally, i do not wish to make my last remarks in this parliament into the beginning of a hot controversy. however, i would just say to the honourable member who said that he wished mr verheugen, my distinguished colleague, had been able to state the advantages of the annan plan more vigorously, that mr verheugen would have loved to do so, but when he tried in cyprus, he was stopped. that is a matter of record and was not the happiest episode in this tale. it would have been better all round if during the course of the referendum campaign he had been able to say in cyprus what he believed the advantages of the annan plan were. it might have been that he would have given a more balanced view than some of the letters sent out by the government. i very much hope that we can have this debate in as calm a way as possible. i hope that all sides of the argument will be heard reasonably. the one thing i would like to say is that i recognise, as mr kasoulides said, that there is a genuine commitment on the part of many honourable members to the betterment of everyone who lives on the island. i have no doubt at all about the honourable member's commitment to that and i hope that we see everybody living a more prosperous, stable and peaceful life on that glorious island in the future.
council. mr president, concerning the issue of climate change there are two main areas in which the eu is playing a key role. the first is the implementation and entry into force of the kyoto protocol. member states and the commission are currently preparing the european emissions trading system, which is due to be launched on 1 january 2005. the second focus of attention is climate policy in the longer term. in december this year, the tenth session of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change is due to take place in buenos aires. one of its tasks will be to assess the results of the convention over the last ten years and future trends. a very important result so far has been the kyoto protocol. but the protocol is only a first step and co2 emissions will have to be reduced even more after 2012. i should like to convey the council's thanks for the efforts parliament has made to persuade russia to commit itself to the kyoto protocol. the european union welcomed the good news that on 5 november president putin had signed a bill confirming ratification of the kyoto protocol by the russian federation. that signature clears the way for the kyoto protocol to come into force early next year. once in force, it will legally oblige countries with binding targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to reach these targets by 2012. the kyoto protocol is the main instrument in the global fight against climate change and a good example of the effectiveness of global cooperation. leading by example, the european union has passed legislation. it has already made these provisions legally binding in the european union. the entry into force of the kyoto protocol shows that the eu was right in its early implementation of the obligations then expected. in spring 2005, the european council will adopt a position on the eu's future climate policy. the heads of government will consider mid- to long-term emission reduction strategies and their objectives. the basic aim of long-term eu climate policy is to limit the rise in temperature to a maximum of 2°c above pre-industrial levels. in preparation for that meeting, the european commission is currently producing a cost-benefit analysis taking account of both environmental factors and competitiveness. action on climate change demands the broadest possible worldwide coalition. i believe that will only be achieved through a dialogue between the european union and other countries. the european union presidency, in the framework of the troika, is currently implementing action with key countries all over the world regarding the forthcoming conference of parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and early discussions on options for a regime for the period beyond 2012. members of the european parliament can also play a significant part in this process by discussing long-term climate policy with parliamentarians from countries outside the european union, for example at the forthcoming tenth conference of parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
commission. mr president, by now 189 countries are party to the un framework convention on climate change and i hope they will all turn up for the tenth conference of the parties in buenos aires. this event will also mark the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the united nations framework convention on climate change. the russian decision to ratify the kyoto protocol means that it will now enter into force, and this will give new impetus to the discussions during the conference of the parties in buenos aires. the commission has four main objectives for cop 10, as it is called. firstly, to take stock of the work done so far. secondly, to explain what the european union is doing to address climate change. thirdly, to advance the discussions on what will happen after 2012. fourthly, to contribute towards finding solutions for the technical issues on the agenda. the first thing is to take stock of what many parties have already done to address climate change. this is also an opportunity, especially for developing countries, to be able to explain that many of them have already taken action and to illustrate the way in which they are the first ones to be affected by climate change. this is important for the political debate in general. the second objective is to explain what the european union is doing through our european climate change programme as well as the emissions trading scheme that will start from january 2005. the system will also be officially presented to all ministers in an event that we are organising in close cooperation with the dutch presidency and the argentine government. the third objective will be to begin looking to the future, at the global regime that we will have after 2012, and to have an exchange of views on the post-2012 framework. again, this is extremely important in order to involve the developing countries and to show that there is a balance in the kind of actions that we are discussing post-2012. the fourth and final objective is to resolve some of the very important technical issues that are still on the cop agenda. in particular, these issues concern topics related to developing countries as well as the balance between adaptation and mitigation. i understand that several round-table discussions will be organised during cop 10. the commission looks forward to working closely with the members of the european parliament who will be part of the delegation in buenos aires. we will ensure full briefing and also rapid transmission of information to the members of the european parliament and we hope that you can engage in a lot of outreaching activities during cop 10. having a strong eu delegation – composed of representatives of all the european institutions at the cop – gives the union an important opportunity to encourage the rest of the world to take more action now in response to the threat of climate change. with five years' experience of working with members of the european parliament, this has been one of our definite strengths, and the fact that we have held joint press conferences, etc. is a sign of strength and good cooperation. i hope that we can continue in a good atmosphere and in close cooperation both at cop 10 and in the future.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, madam commissioner, it would not have been much of a stretch if we had not been able to have this debate with you, but with your successor. i am really glad, to be honest, that we are able to speak to you today about climate policy and the eu's commitment to the climate conference in buenos aires in december. it is a fine conclusion that you can pass on this climate dossier in the knowledge that the kyoto protocol will soon enter into force, having been ratified by the russian state duma on 22 october and by the russian federation council on 27 october. president putin has now signed the act of ratification and we are waiting for the deposit of the ratification with the secretary-general of the united nations. ninety days after that, the kyoto protocol can go into effect. my group welcomes president putin's decision to tackle the problem of global warming together with the european union and other countries. europe and the european commission have played an important role in achieving this result and congratulations, including to you, are certainly in order. climate policy in europe is very much supported. our group is very pleased that the european parliament and the council of ministers are committed to an ambitious climate policy aimed at combating the greenhouse effect. in the run-up to the climate conference in buenos aires, europe has confirmed its leading role. i am glad that europe has reaffirmed the need to support developing countries in adapting to the effects of climate change. it is not enough to say that we are going to take structural measures which will have a long-term effect. some countries, particularly developing countries and small countries, are already facing the consequences of the greenhouse effect and need help. my group is satisfied, but of course it remains critical. it is good that parliament and the environment ministers support an ambitious climate policy. but it cannot be limited to fine words and good intentions. concrete measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must also be developed. the netherlands, as the president of the european union, has a special responsibility to achieve concrete results. the ideas of the presidency on the environment sound good, but they must be translated into results. we shall also be assessing the dutch presidency on this basis at the end of the year. it will be seen in buenos aires whether our fine words are also spoken and acted upon in an international context. i hope, in any case, that we will have a very good cooperation, both with the dutch presidency and with the european commission, at the cop10 in buenos aires.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, it is almost seven years since the famous kyoto protocol was drawn up, and very soon it will finally come into force with the ratification of russia. that is good news, not only for those who have fought for this protocol, like you, mrs wallström, but also for those who experience the effects of climate change on a daily basis. it is certainly worthy of a heartfelt congratulation. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0243 - c4-0179/97). i would therefore call on the council and the commission to show in buenos aires, together with the european parliament, that the eu wants not only a strong economy but also a strong environmental policy. there is still much room for improvement in this protocol, for example adding aircraft emissions. the support base can also be further expanded. your new portfolio can help to achieve this, mrs wallström. the eu can help. more countries joining the protocol means better control of global emissions. 55% of annex 1 emissions are now covered, let's work hard on the remaining 45%.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. commissioner wallström, this is your last debate as environment commissioner. i would like to congratulate you on your excellent work over the past five years, on your great personal commitment and thank you for the good cooperation you have established with our parliament. you have been a fine commissioner for the environment. tonight we are discussing the leftovers of the revision of the packaging directive. the ten new countries need clear objectives. recycling and reuse cannot be proclaimed all at once from the capital or from brussels. it takes time to convince people to set up systems. i therefore think it is best to stick to the dates proposed by the new member states themselves. i have of course also looked at the views of colleagues from the new countries and no other views have emerged, hence my proposal for amendment no 3. i agree with the commission that we must complete this dossier as quickly as possible and that we must try to create political clarity for the new member states as soon as possible. president, commissioner, the packaging directive is in need of a fundamental revision. one of the key points is the continuing tension between maintaining the internal market and protecting the environment. this leads in some cases to uncertainty and lengthy procedures. clearness must be brought about, both for producers and for consumers. the european commission is calling into question a number of reuse schemes in europe under the packaging directive, which is also intended for the environment. commissioner, i am very disappointed and have decided to take up this amendment. in amendment no 4 i propose, on behalf of my group, that the directive should include the possibility for member states to encourage the reuse of packaging material. member states may introduce new packaging reuse schemes or maintain existing ones if they provide an environmental benefit compared to recycling or recovery of packaging material. this amendment, which is a recital, does not say that member states should encourage reuse. it states that member states may promote reuse, provided that - and this is important - this is done in accordance with the treaty and does not disturb the internal market. commissioner, you said that you could accept this amendment and i understand that it does not raise much resistance in the council either. i cannot understand why even the epp group and the european packaging industry are opposed to this. the attitude of the epp and industry is quite astonishing if we take the state of the environment and nature seriously. recently, the follow-up to the club of rome report was published. this new report concludes that the limits of sustainable development are becoming clear. if we do not conserve and carefully manage natural resources such as water and energy, then two worlds collide, the world of nature and the world of human civilization. we have not been sufficiently successful in integrating sustainable development into our production and consumption behaviour. it's obvious we need to make a change. recycling materials and the economical and careful management of natural resources are vital. that is also the background to amendment no 4. a packaging industry which resists the possibility of encouraging reuse within the confines of the internal market is turning its back on the future. european industry must be the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. this requires companies that can assess the social reality. this requires companies that can make sustainability a brand, companies that understand that citizens and consumers care about the future of the planet and are willing to contribute. of course, the industry is right when it says that reuse should not be a cover for protectionism. reuse should not be an excuse to annoy foreign suppliers. reuse is also not always better for the environment and there is no reason to make reuse compulsory. however, recycling has an important function, namely to impress upon people the need to be conservative with nature and with materials. a new step towards the throwaway society is the last thing we are waiting for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. tomorrow this parliament will also be discussing the kok report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy. wim kok notes that this laudable quest for a sustainable society in which people, the environment and the market are in balance is not being derailed by a lack of political will. however, he does not conclude that we should just throw the lisbon strategy in the trash, and i agree with him. we must make it work and show political will. in all its modesty, this package leaflet will give you an opportunity tomorrow to show your political will. not only can we express our opinion in the resolution on what needs to be done, but we can also express our opinion on a concrete, sustainable addition to the packaging directive. i call on all colleagues to come forward tomorrow. you have a choice: a voice for a europe that strives for a sustainable society and acts on it or a voice for a europe that speaks beautiful words about sustainable development and the lisbon strategy but lacks the strength or the courage to back it up with action. commissioner wallström, communication is your new main task in the european commission. you have said that you intend to continue to spread and promote the message of sustainable development. i wholeheartedly support you in this and wish you every success. i hope that after the vote on the packaging directive tomorrow you will be able to point out to the press that europe is not only talking about sustainability, but is also acting on it.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party thank you, mr president, castro's antics are inimitable, literally and figuratively, politically, socioeconomically and culturally. el líder doesn't know about neighborhoods. his will is law. the opposition in particular is aware of this. the european union is proud of its desire to recognize and support independent cuban minds. however, this policy is under internal pressure today. the spanish government in particular is reportedly planning to leave cuban dissidents in the cold and madrid is looking for allies among the other member states. this sad development was the reason why the christian trade union leader in my country, doekle terpstra, sent a letter to the dutch presidency earlier this week. this letter calls on the european union not to make concessions to castro's dictatorship in exchange for trade advantages. i wholeheartedly support this call. at the same time, i ask the council and the commission: is there any coordination between the european union's and the united states' human rights policies on castro's cuba? and if so, how do they intend to reinforce that? finally, i would like to make a request to the commission. i would like to see a comprehensive assessment of the situation in cuba, including future scenarios, from your side. with an official delegation in havana, that should be feasible. mr president, i would like to conclude with the appeal by mr oswaldo josé payá sardiñas and, thanks to mr ribeiro e castro, i have just read the letter addressed to the president of this house. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in particular, no relationship can be established which is accompanied by the violation of the rights of all cubans. thank you.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, allow me to congratulate prime minister balkenende on his forceful approach after the shocking murder of theo van gogh and the riots that followed. in these difficult circumstances, leadership is essential. without solidarity and unity in tackling those who threaten the rule of law, we would not get there. the positive thing is that society is also showing this need. i wish you god's blessing in your work, especially in bringing together and uniting the different populations. mr president, at the last meeting of european heads of government mr kok presented his report on the lisbon strategy, a report which we in parliament were looking forward to with interest. the conclusions and recommendations are not new. what is new is that an adviser consulted by the council is putting the ball back in the member states' court. these member states should start structural reforms and that has apparently not yet happened. the over-objective was not a choice. the question is whether reducing the number of objectives is sufficient in itself. i don't think it was. more needs to be done, but the will to do it must be there. which member state will be the first to stick its neck out? we have debated in parliament on several occasions since 2001 why this strategy has not had the intended effect. this parliament has limited powers in the lisbon process and, in any case, the role of the union in the open method of coordination is difficult to define. environmental and social policy are under pressure. however, we will need to adopt a sustainability strategy if we are to preserve our prosperity and well-being for future generations in the long term. the parties broadly agree on the analysis. but which member state is actually starting implementation? my question to mr balkenende is therefore what further action we can expect from the dutch presidency in the next six weeks. the netherlands has always been a strong advocate of reforms to make the lisbon process a success.
the netherlands is in despair at the moment, mr president, because more than ever we are being thrown back on the question of the balance between freedom and tolerance, but also on the question of setting limits to guarantee security. i fully agree with mr blokland's compliment to prime minister balkenende on the way he is leading, giving direction in channelling the feeling of our people towards a more tolerant society in which there is respect for one another. respect for these values is also something that we as a parliament will have to defend at all times. but, mr president, tolerance also means drawing boundaries, clearly defining boundaries. it is good that the hague agenda is a follow-up to tampere. i commend the way in which agreement was reached. i agree with my colleague mr oreja who has just said that it is now time to take concrete action, to give priority to concrete short-term action. perhaps the president of the council could elaborate on this. i would like to make a priority point, which i have already made on several occasions, namely that it is not possible for us to hear in the justice and home affairs council, after the attacks in new york and madrid, the following: "we will now automatically exchange information on possible attacks without delay". it is inconceivable that this has not yet happened, that the urgency has now receded to that point, whereas we have also seen in the political murder in the netherlands and in the whole situation there that there may be international links. i would also like to make a brief comment on the lisbon strategy. it is the only way, mr balkenende said, and he is right. it's the only way, we'll have to go on it. the only question is how, not with the 'supercommissioner' as once proposed by chancellor schröder, but by learning from each other. does he see opportunities to exchange better good examples around innovation councils he chairs? does he also see the possibility of calling on national parliaments to play their part of the responsibility much more forcefully? the last point, mr president, i round off. communication in europe is also an important point. it is essential, mr balkenende, that the statute should be adopted, because as long as it is not adopted, we will be subject to the negative image of ourselves at every election. thank you, i'm curious to see how far you'll get.
i would like to begin by talking about the lisbon process. i think that mr kok's report is very welcome and also puts the finger on the sore spot. the remedy for the problems is well known, but action is lacking. and i am beginning to feel a little desperate, seeing that we have said this so many times and that we have still not found the means to get the member states moving. i would like to hear what the eu presidency intends to do about this. secondly, i have heard that a false contrast is being created between competitiveness and solidarity. these are two complementary issues, there is no contradiction. liberalisation - we all agreed on this in lisbon - is necessary and liberalisation does not undermine our european socioeconomic model, but rather strengthens it. now, if we look at the facts, and i say this with emphasis to the left of this house, liberalization, free markets, has brought more products and more services within the reach of more people. that is the reality and i think we should not resort to the old means of protectionism, state aid, which is a bad way of spending taxpayers' money, and monopolies. secondly, mr president, i should like to refer to the programme of the hague conference. that is very welcome and cannot of course be seen in isolation from the events in the netherlands. it is not a dutch problem, it is a european problem. in fact, freedom and a peaceful society are the raison d'être of the european union and we must therefore fight very hard to preserve them. on the one hand, this means that we will be working very hard on security, and in this light i would like to stress once again that i find the reluctance of the member states in recent years to cooperate more under the banner of national sovereignty incomprehensible. human lives, our democracy and social cohesion are at stake. finally, mr president, we must look at the other side of this one-sided approach to repression and terrorism. a one-sided approach is not effective, it is like wiping the faucet open, so we must also fight against hatred and against racism. i would like to end by pointing out the tone of the debate which also contributes greatly to the solution of this problem.
i would like to make a special mention of the lisbon agenda in my speech. i would like to dedicate this debate to the lisbon agenda. just one comment beforehand. i have great appreciation for the excellent results achieved in the so-called hague agenda. in the netherlands, unfortunately, this has gone almost unnoticed in the commotion and unrest of the last few weeks. i would like to point out, however, that in the field of justice and home affairs, security and justice, the area of freedom for our citizens, with so many good agreements, has now been brought closer again, also thanks to mr donner. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i wholeheartedly agree, and this is certainly also due to the dutch presidency, that the three pillars of the strategy - economic reforms, social cohesion and sustainability - in balance and coherence, remain the starting point for the lisbon process. but, mr president, social cohesion and sustainability can only be achieved if we are able to make europe a real player on the world market again. the economic improvement is not an end in itself, but it is a necessary condition for preserving the european social model, which is based on solidarity between workers and beneficiaries, between young and old, for future generations. the presidency has also been successful in another matter. the presidency's priority, and one which is also mentioned in mr kok's report, was the reduction of regulatory pressure. i would like to remind you, mr president, of the report by mr doorn, which was presented in april last year. we would be the first parliament to undergo an impact assessment of its own amendments. an example that deserves to be followed in other parliaments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the target is clear. i sincerely hope that in march we will be able to turn the lisbon strategy into a strategy with opportunities, but with simpler procedures and tougher agreements, especially for the member states, as lambert van nistelrooij rightly says, where the process is now too much strategy and therefore lacks a positive result. and parliament is happy to help.
i would also like to speak on behalf of my group on the spring meeting and the kok ii report. the report and the council conclusions rightly do not address the coherence of economic and social policies and sustainability policy, the characteristics of the lisbon strategy. there can be no question of subordinating social and environmental objectives, even though growth and employment are rightly central. it is regrettable that the mandate of the high level group to develop a coherent strategy to achieve the lisbon objectives has not been focused more on the common macroeconomic policy in a european context. in this respect, we have long since ceased to be talking about economies in the plural, but about a single european economy. we have noted with satisfaction the intention to involve the european parliament more closely in the preparations for the spring meeting and the lisbon strategy. mr balkenende asked with interest about our plans to set up a standing committee. i can tell him that we are indeed discussing how we are going to shape that, but i would ask him to take account of the timetable for the various reports and the reporting, including the timetable we have to make here in parliament. our experience is that there is often not enough room to make adequate use of it. we also intend to involve national parliaments more clearly in the strategy. i think this is a very important part of it. we want to look with the luxembourg presidency at how we can also prepare together with the national parliaments for the coming spring meeting. it will be clear that making the lisbon strategy more effective depends first and foremost on the willingness of the member states to work together in a genuine eu context. i think we are facing a shift from competition between member states to a focus on a stronger common european strategy. that is where our strength lies compared to other economic blocs like the us and china, which also work as a unit. and so we have to look not only at the balance of income and expenditure of member states in the context of the stability pact, but, as commissioner almunia said in the financial times on monday, also at the quality of public finances. and we must also hold this debate on national budgetary policies together, the council, the commission, the national parliaments and the european parliament. then economic policy can indeed be more than the sum of 25 separate parts. that is the challenge we face.
the president-in-office of the council has said that the situation in the netherlands is very serious and that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. i think it was the right opportunity for the union to take a stand against radical muslims who interpret the koran in a fundamentalist way. european cooperation in the fight against terrorism is unfortunately characterized today by the well-known holy houses of the member states. the declaration adopted after the madrid attacks, the appointment of gijs de vries or the hague programme, all of them do little to save time if the member states do not put their fine words into action. european action, including that of the member states, is a must here.
in writing. de vvd eurofractie, bij monde van toine manders, heeft tegen amendement 4 van mevrouw corbey inzake de verpakkingsrichtlijn gestemd, omdat het amendement niet oproept om díe manier van hergebruik van verpakkingsmateriaal te onderzoeken die het beste binnen de interne markt past. de vvd eurofractie stemt hiermee niet tegen het milieu, maar ziet geen extra milieuvoordeel in dit amendement omdat onduidelijk is wat bij hervulling van eenmalige verpakkingen de kosten zijn van bijvoorbeeld extra transport, gebruik van reinigingsmiddelen en de daarbij horende extra watervervuiling. tevens wordt op dit moment 80 tot 90% van eenmalige verpakkingen al succesvol gerecycled. bovendien mogen extra milieumaatregelen niet leiden tot een verstoring van de interne markt, zoals dit zich al voor heeft gedaan bij het statiegeldsysteem voor eenmalige verpakkingen in duitsland. dit systeem dat thans nog ter eindbeoordeling bij het hof van justitie ligt, heeft sinds de invoering ervan, geleid tot ongeveer een half miljard euro schade voor de consument, het bedrijfsleven en heeft ,niet in de laatste plaats, grote schade toegebracht aan de werkgelegenheid.
in writing. after 40 years of de facto separation and 30 years of turkish military presence in the north, the opportunity to reunite cyprus as a federal state finally opened up earlier this year. the core of this solution was to guarantee self-government for greek-speakers and turkish-speakers in their own constituencies, following the successful model but with which earlier in belgium the tension between flemish and walloon was resolved. this peaceful solution, proposed by the un secretary-general kofi annan, was unfortunately rejected by the greek-speaking majority in a referendum. a solution which is very different from this will never be able to win the approval of both groups of the population separately. i understand the feelings of the greek cypriots and the greek cypriots who would prefer the turks to be in a minority position in a predominantly greek-speaking country, as they were between 1960 and 1964, but that remains impossible. so for the time being, the divorce remains in place. i welcome the fact that the european commission has sought ways of not punishing the turkish-speaking minority, who did want peace and reconciliation and voted in favour of the peace plan in the referendum, for the fact that their territory could not yet be incorporated into the eu on 1 may. as long as the present situation continues, we shall have to vote on the following short explanation of vote in accordance with rule 163:
in writing. bosnia and herzegovina is treated as an eu protectorate, which dictates how the government is to be organised, how the police and border guards are to function and even what the tax system is to look like. the opportunity to critically assess what nine years of foreign military presence have produced has unfortunately not been used. the fact that the eu will take over responsibility for foreign military forces from nato in december is now being advertised on posters all over the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. this gives the impression that bosnia-herzegovina is being incorporated into the eu by means of occupation. this will undoubtedly provoke negative reactions among the serbian population, who may see this as a means of achieving a final separation from serbia. i am in favour of an eu policy which takes account of the different aspirations of the three peoples of this country and which is limited to contributing to the peaceful settlement of their mutual problems and to living together as good neighbours. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
today, mr president, we are holding the second debate on the appointment of the new european commission under the chairmanship of mr barroso. the first debate, three weeks ago, was mainly about problems in the appointment of a number of new commissioners and about the lack of cooperation between the european parliament and the incoming president in the composition of the new commission. the eyes of all the european media were then on the european parliament. the question was whether a majority of the european parliament would be prepared to draw the logical conclusion from the work done in the preceding weeks in the hearings. the question was whether a majority of this parliament would have the discipline and courage to weigh the merits of the individual commissioners and the new european commission as a whole in a substantive, fact-based way in its final decision. the final verdict was then: the commission's proposal to the council, which was adopted unanimously, was a clear victory for parliament. it is partly because of the united position of my group that the european parliament has shown itself willing and able to make the best use of the possibilities at its disposal to persuade mr barroso to make the necessary changes to the commission he has proposed. the hearings with the commissioners-designate this week have shown that the commission has improved in quality as a result. it should be noted that all of them emerged stronger from the battle for the appointment of the new commission. the european parliament has expressed its position in a serious and open debate and in an open process of hearings. it has also been able to make it clear that its position, which was formulated in an open and substantive way, deserves respect and that it deserves to be taken very seriously by the other european institutions, the commission and the council. this has clearly strengthened the position and the prestige of parliament. but the commission and its future president have also found a way out of the problems, albeit at a very late stage, in cooperation with the european parliament. this exercise in cooperation also means, in the end, a strengthening of the commission's position, and this will be useful to the commission in the coming years when it comes to consultation and negotiation with the member states. we have been able to make it clear from our group that it is not possible in european politics to push through decisions based on the support of only one political group in parliament. we are prepared to assume this responsibility for the future policy of the european union in the future. but the real winners, and that is my main point, are the citizens of europe. they have seen that this european parliament is prepared to take up the fight seriously to achieve the best possible europe. the sometimes hard debate on the creation of the commission has clearly added value to their vote during and after the european elections. i believe that parliament and the commission have a heavy duty to work together in the coming years to give further substance to the added value we have acquired in recent weeks. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
president, the outgoing commission was dominated by the social democrats, although they supported the neoliberal policies of lisbon 2000. the new commission will be dominated by christian democrats and liberals who are ready to implement the right-wing political programme laid down in the draft constitution. alongside this political change, it is notable that some candidates have a tradition of prioritizing their private business activities over serving any form of public interest. mrs kroes should start checking in the competition portfolio whether others are doing what she herself has done for decades: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in the hearing she made the same argument about the distribution of subsidies to criminal friends that was unanimously rejected by the dutch parliament in 1997. moreover, it has now admitted for the first time that it sent a secret letter ten years ago with the aim of having a friendly company communicate in a transaction of the dutch export consortium which it chaired. the dutch government says only president barroso can remove her and barroso refers to the netherlands. it would be good if this parliament could remove contested candidates by voting for each individual candidate.
chairman, i'll try to be ready before the roof comes down. this summer, mr barroso, you convinced me to vote for you, and now that the dust is settling and i am looking over the battlefield, i must say that i was right to vote for you. i thought that a commission president should be both a leader and a democrat. that's a balancing act of jewelste and you've mastered that weak rope. mr. speaker, the green witch hunt on neelie kroes is asking for a reply. the greens' logic is therefore that a doctor cannot be responsible for public health, a former trade union leader cannot be responsible for social policy, a woman cannot be responsible for emancipation and a green cannot be responsible for environmental policy. mr. chairman, if i need a referee, i'd rather pick someone who can play football. moreover, never before has a commissioner submitted to such a strict code of conduct, and that too is institutional renewal. president barroso, your commission has excellent ambitions in the field of economic innovation and the fight against discrimination. i hope, mr president, that you will follow my group in adding further democratization to this. in conclusion, the european commission as an institution has actually stopped submitting legislative proposals at the turn of the year and has, as far as i am concerned, slept long enough. president barroso, kiss dornrosie and wake her up quickly and get to work. i think parliament will give you the opportunity to do so tomorrow.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just want to express my sincere thanks on behalf of myself and all the members of the commission for the confidence that has just been placed in this commission, and to tell you that i regard this confidence as a great, a huge responsibility, and that we will work, we will do our utmost to serve europe, to serve the institutions of the european union and to serve all our fellow citizens. i have nothing more to say at the moment, we have that, yes, very, very much to do. thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
council. mr president, i should like to congratulate the new commission, which has the broad support of the european parliament. i look forward to working with this new commission. i should also like to congratulate the european parliament. what has happened today has strengthened european democracy as well as the european union as a whole. (applause)
in writing. as dutch members of the ind/dem group, we were faced with a dilemma in this vote. at the october plenary in strasbourg, the left and liberal groups showed great vehemence against buttiglione's biblical views on marriage and sexuality. views that we identify with. we are critical of the european parliament's attitude. here is a spiritual climate in which there is no room for differing views of principle. we therefore have difficulty in agreeing to a commission without mr buttiglione. too much has happened to be able to assess the capacity of the proposed commission. this vote cannot be separated from the injustice done to mr buttiglione. and that while he was loyal to the treaty. the pain and indignation over the action of the european parliament and an assessment of the capacities of the proposed commission are competing for priority. there is only one vote, and it is the one in which all our feelings and considerations must be expressed. in view of the dilemma outlined, we abstained from the vote. in this way we make it clear that we value freedom of religion and expression as much as we value the administrative capacity of europe.
in writing. on 15 september 1999, in a vote, i objected in particular to the nomination of the proposed new commissioner, mr bolkestein. he was then the candidate with the most pronounced preferences for forced privatisation of public services and for abandoning all possible tasks for the eu that do not fit into his ultra-liberal view of the economy. he leaves us with a draft services directive which is already known as the scandal directive because it makes national rules for the protection of workers harmless by making them compete with each other. i objected to bolkestein because he is the ideologue of a wrong europe, but i have always taken his qualities as a politician very seriously. this is not the case with its liberal successor, now supplied by the netherlands. she disappeared from dutch politics 15 years ago and has since been in the news negatively several times for her previous actions as a minister and then her actions as a businesswoman. as i said in the debate yesterday, she has made controversial choices which have favoured only a few groups of people over the general interest. we must therefore take seriously the fact that they will be voting on the report before the (short explanation of vote in accordance with rule 163)
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). this is always at the expense of the freedom and the different culture of the people already living in that area. tibet, which, like neighbouring east turkistan or xinjiang, has long been internationally recognised as part of china's territory against the will of its people, is no exception. colonisation of chinese from the densely populated central and eastern regions of the country is taking place, with many newcomers filling the role of civil servant, policeman or military. for many years, opposition to this humiliating situation has been suppressed by all means, especially by violence. as is often the case in similar situations, it seems that the rulers in china want the territory of tibet, but not the people. i am not a fan of the traditional theocracy in old tibet before 1951, which in practice could have temporarily escaped the authority of long-term war-torn china. even without that admiration, i find the present situation totally unacceptable and it seems to me reasonable that china should also negotiate solutions with the exiles in india, led by the dalai lama. the problems are only exacerbated when what the government calls separatism is punished by the death penalty or by a death penalty with suspensive effect. this is true even when prisoners are held in isolation and tortured. a country that does this should certainly not be able to buy weapons from the member states of the european union. the commission and the council should not take as their main starting point in relations with china the fact that it is a large country with a rapidly growing economy. it is a country that does not release colonized peoples, puts economic growth above all else and, for the rest, violates human rights. if europe makes it clear that we do not take this chinese policy for granted, that is a contribution to the necessary change and it is badly needed.
the worrying situation in the field of religious freedom is an important part of the political dialogue that the european union is conducting with the eritrean authorities on the ground. that was the answer given by the dutch government on may 6 of this year to widely discussed parliamentary questions about religious freedom in eritrea. the motion for a resolution does not do justice to this important communication from the current presidency of the council, and i very much regret that. let's get the main facts straight. one, the eritrean constitution provides for complete freedom of religion. second, however, a government decree of may 2002 provides for the registration of all religious groups. three, but that registration does not apply to four of them, namely the orthodox christians, muslims, catholics and members of the evangelical church of eritrea. four, many small protestant churches have been denied registration for years, while their houses of worship have been officially closed. fifth, according to a recent u.s. government report, there are likely more than 200 members of unregistered religious groups currently in detention. six, eritrean police force members of unregistered churches to sign statements denying their beliefs. mr president, commissioner, there is absolutely no freedom of religion in eritrea. i therefore hope that the european union will continue to make every effort to do so, preferably in cooperation with the american government, which will show equal concern in the event of serious violations of religious freedom in eritrea. this is the opportunity to give shape to transatlantic cooperation in defence of western values, which is very much needed in the european union of 2004.
i would like to take this opportunity to welcome mr tarasyuk, my former colleague and co-chairman of the interparliamentary delegation. i know him as a champion of reform in his country. the cause of the political crisis in ukraine is the violation of democracy. the elections did not meet democratic standards. there was no balanced campaign, voters were intimidated and there was fraud in various ways. this is unacceptable. we therefore reject the outcome of the second round of the presidential elections. the right of the people of ukraine to make their own choices in an open and transparent democratic process is central. we vote for all the people of ukraine who are now standing up for their democratic rights. the first thing to do is to find a way out, a political and peaceful solution to the situation that has arisen. the eu must use all diplomatic means to contribute to this. but there is a greater challenge, because this political crisis is not isolated. the outcome of the elections will have a major impact on the european union's relations with ukraine, whether positive or negative. the only satisfactory solution to the crisis is to do justice to the democratic principles and the will of the ukrainian people. the ukrainian parliament also rejected the election results. the solution is to hold the second round of elections with the close involvement of international observers, to ensure that this third round takes place under conditions that are totally different from the conditions under which the first and second rounds were held. a situation in which democratic norms are respected with, of course, close monitoring and monitoring by the international community. we call on everyone to cooperate. the democratic aspirations of the people of ukraine are clear and have our full support. the mass of the demonstrations shows the commitment of the people. i express my deep appreciation and admiration for the demonstrators in the cities of ukraine who are calling for the restoration of democracy. however, the situation in the country is tense and we call on both the opposition and the authorities to preserve the non-violent character of the actions and to prevent the situation from escalating. if the authorities were to resort to violence against peaceful demonstrators, that would have immediate consequences for our relations with the european union. the division of the country, which some seem to be promoting, will also create a new and much more serious crisis and would in no way contribute to a satisfactory solution. moreover, such aspirations reflect a false view of things. the crux of the matter is the violation of democratic norms, not the fact that the support for the candidates varies geographically. it is not just a question of ukraine choosing between the european union and russia. ukraine will always have to maintain close relations with both countries because of its geographical location, its economy and its history. the debate today is not about our relationship with russia either, but russia is an important factor in the matter and unfortunately takes a somewhat different line. the contradictions between europe and russia were very clearly expressed last week by the dutch president, prime minister balkenende, on behalf of the presidency. for that, our compliments. nevertheless, it is very important that russia is also involved in the way the crisis is being resolved and that the kremlin is asked to support the holding of the second round of elections. europe has a great interest in stable governance in all its neighbouring countries. ukraine is a key partner because of its size and location. the european union must offer the prospect of an accelerated intensification of political and economic cooperation. the eu and ukraine have agreed to cooperate in the fight against terrorism, and the eu is working with the ukrainian authorities to ensure that the situation in ukraine is resolved. i think that the debate on this subject should also provide a better response to ukraine's european aspirations than has been the case so far. i think that not so much this parliament as the commission and the council have been unable to answer that question in recent years, and i am not as positive as mr brok about the eu's commitment to ukraine in recent years. but we now have a new commission, and that also opens up new opportunities. today there is great unanimity in the response to the crisis. i also hope that soon after the crisis has been resolved, hopefully in a positive way, we will be able to work together with ukraine and with a better policy than has been pursued so far.
mr president, kiev is more european than ankara. the events of the past ten days in ukraine have provided irrefutable proof of this. citizens are courageously standing up for the essential value of their ballot. it is also a lesson for all the european institutions on the true meaning of a european community of values. the european union must work with the united states of america to bring about a review of the shameful electoral fraud of the ancien régime in ukraine in the short term. i would like to congratulate the dutch presidency on its efforts so far and also on the attitude of our new european commissioner. the union must also draw the long-term consequences of the current dramatic situation in kiev. why not offer ukraine a prospect of membership and a purely non-european country like turkey one? that seems to me an untenable and in any case very harmful position. the scary scenarios about the break-up of or even a civil war in ukraine come from the cocoon of the real voting losers inside and outside ukraine. would president putin really jeopardize russia's relationship with the united states and the european union for a ukrainian president who is unbelievable both at home and abroad? that seems too irrational to be true. exactly one week ago, a ukrainian author, and i quote, "more urgently than ever we need the moral and political support of the democracies of the world, because if we lose democratic ukraine today, you can forget all your complacent and conflict-free europe tomorrow". let us be told that as nearest neighbors.
president. - the president-in-office of the council has a positive attitude. he believes in dialogue and he is convinced that we will reach an agreement. the only conclusion i can draw from this is that he has abandoned the unreasonable demand that the budget be reduced to 1% of gross national product, because that would make an agreement impossible. fortunately, he has left that path, because a larger european union, which has to tackle more problems, cannot of course be achieved with less money. i am not entirely reassured, of course, because there are enough finance ministers who, for the 2007 budget, look mainly at the year 2006 and then think that in 2006 it should not be a touch more. my group, however, takes a very different view. we look at 2013 and what we want to have achieved in that time. the greens/efa group considers the european commission's proposal to be a good basis, but one which still needs to be substantially supplemented. for example, investments in rural development, the environment, renewable energy, research and exchange programmes for young people, teachers and artists. we also want flexibility. we need a framework that will enable us to meet the challenges of the european union in 2013 as well. it is clear to my group that we must not only talk about the expenditure but also about the revenue of the european union. the president-in-office of the council has just spoken of some minor adjustments, such as the net limiter, but of course something much more fundamental is needed. the whole debate about net borrowing often leads to irritation, to irrational expenditure, because everything has to be compensated for, and to a budget that is far too low. so let's just have a more serious conversation about revenue. let's talk about a minimum rate on environmental pollution or corporate tax, which goes directly to the european union. it is not on top of the national tax, but instead of it. that will only serve to encourage a rational discussion on the expenditure of the european union.
mr president, like many in this house, i believe that it is important to have an agreement on the financial perspective for the future. that is better than falling back on any article of the treaty or any other article. i therefore think it is right that the council intends to develop these new financial perspectives in good consultation and consensus with parliament and to meet regularly to that end. what i think should be applied more for the financial perspective of the future is flexibility between chapters. the council could, however, ask itself whether this is dangerous. i don't think he did. finally, with the present forms of flexibility, we have always remained far below the standards allowed by the agreement. another point of concern is co-financing. not all parts of the budget are co-financed. some people can, some people can't. i think this is also an opportunity to achieve flexibility, partly through differences in application in the poor and rich member states of the european union.
it is important that we in this parliament today seize the opportunity to have this opening debate. it is therefore very good that mr nicolaï has indicated from the council that we will meet more frequently in the future and that we will have the opportunity to keep our finger on the pulse every month. however, this new parliament has clearly set priorities for the continuation of cohesion policy, because it has been effective in the past and because it has reduced the differences in europe. new issues have also been taken up, such as the lisbon agenda. but we are not doing it right yet. the kok report has made it very clear that we cannot sit back and wait, but must invest. we must do this on a european scale, in a new dynamic and on the geographical scale that europe has. in addition, there are new challenges - today we have talked about ukraine, for example. the new neighbourhood policy requires implementation and investment. these are new challenges and this parliament wants to move forward with them. my message, mr president, is that we must learn from what happened in 1999, particularly in regional policy. because we were too hesitant and talked too long, that first year, 1999, was not a productive one. we must not allow 2007 to turn out to be another hesitant year, when the big objectives are the ones that call for acceleration. so it's about persistence, which we have to bring together. it is precisely the linking of instruments, the more integral approach to issues such as research, that offers opportunities. the voters expect us to adopt such a stance. new policies and new perspectives, that cannot be done with the 1%. that's gonna have to be more.
mr president, 40 million people are suffering from aids. of these, 70% live in africa. the millennium development goals are a central effort to focus on basic health care in the field. europe spends too little of its development cooperation budget on basic health care, which must be linked to good nutrition, access to clean drinking water and basic education. commissioner michel has said that he will be presenting a new communication setting out europe's priorities in development cooperation. mr commissioner, please ensure that the words you have just spoken are actually reflected in that new communication! the un estimates that 45 million people are at risk of infection. of these, 27 million could be prevented with a targeted campaign. we have a lot of experience with this kind of campaign around the world. but it requires a huge effort and that is where we must concentrate our action. we in europe, as has been said before, can help our member states to say to the pharmaceutical industry: you can make cheap products. we can say to the developing countries: we're going to provide a waiver, so that the trips agreements don't prevent you from producing on the cheap market. finally, mr president, the vatican recently spoke through javier cardinal lozano barragán, president of the pontifical council for health care pastoral care, about immunity, moral deficiency and pathology of the mind as causes of aids which must be combated by correct sexual practices. i think that is a discriminatory and stigmatising remark and commissioner kyprianou was right when he said that we should not stigmatise aids patients in this way. i am glad that the commissioner has thus given the vatican a clear answer.
mr president, on 25 october the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs voted on the report by mr coelho. it was already clear that biometric data would be included in passports in the near future and mr coelho is trying to impose a number of conditions on this, so that the privacy of citizens can be guaranteed in any case. well, i'll give you that. however, even before the commission could vote on it, the council came up with its own proposal, which went much further. the council did not even have the decency to wait for parliament's opinion. the council has been very active in this area since the beginning of the year and has been very active in the field of the internal market. that is a very undemocratic attitude, especially when one realizes that the passport directly concerns every eu citizen. i have no illusions, however. i am sure that the governments represented in the same council will point to europe in the national discussions on this issue once the criticism is in hand. it must be from europe. i would like to make it clear, however, that this is not a european decision. it is a decision that national governments enforce at european level. and they do so by making the best use, or abuse, if you will, of the democratic gap that still exists. i was curious to hear the response of the responsible minister, but there is none. let us hope that his reaction would have been less cynical than the reaction of mr donner, the dutch minister of justice, to critical questions about this course of events in the dutch house of representatives. he said that this was not dishonorable, as he had been told, but simply political.
i would like to add my voice to those of the previous speakers who warmly welcomed commissioner frattini and paid tribute to the rapporteur, mr coelho. the previous speakers have also indicated that the democratic process in this case is rather rattling. the decision to add a second mandatory feature was taken behind closed doors, leaving the ep and the national parliaments out of the equation. the european parliament is then more or less blackmailed by the council into adopting something as quickly as possible, when it is a very fundamental matter. i should also like to say that i am very sorry that no one from the council is here today to answer this. commissioner frattini said that this was a security measure and that we wanted better passports. that is all very well, but let us not forget to mention that it is also a request from the united states. they want us to record one biometric feature. they do not ask for two, and i cannot see why the second feature should suddenly be added, especially if the united states itself is not at all prepared to do the same. i therefore ask you to support our amendment tomorrow to keep the second feature optional. finally, looking at the proposals, i wonder whether there is really an improvement in security or whether there is a false security, because terrorists, as we know, travel simply on their own passports.
the rapporteur. - mr president, children must be able to use the internet and other new media safely without being confronted with illegal and unwanted content. that is the ambitious goal of the safer internet plus programme. the european commission's proposal clearly favours self-regulation. a great deal of responsibility is placed on parents, educators and other end-users. that is an approach which i wholeheartedly support. the programme makes a clear distinction between illegal content and undesirable content. that is a crucial distinction, i think. the emphasis is on the information of parents and educators. i wholeheartedly support that too. the four lines of action of the programme relate primarily to the fight against illegal content, and in particular child pornography. the network of child pornography hotspots in the european union is being extended. the initiative to set up such points of contact must come from the member states themselves, but the european commission can and must encourage and accelerate this process. it is of great importance that each eu member state has its own hotline as soon as possible, so that we can fight against child pornography on the internet throughout the eu. the programme also provides internet users with the means to protect themselves against unwanted content. an example of such a tool is content filtering. in close cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, i have chosen to focus on research and evaluation of this technology. there are all kinds of content filters on the market for parents who want to use them, but there is often a great lack of information about the performance of this technology. the european union can make a good contribution in this respect. the safer internet plus programme will allow research into the performance of the technology and the criteria by which these filters work. it can also be examined whether the filters are a good means of helping users to protect themselves. because there are a lot of examples of filters that filter out way too much. for example, there are filters that work on the basis of keywords and that make unintended information, such as sex education or breast cancer, inaccessible. of course, that can never be the intention. other filters do not hold up well enough, making them basically worthless. and let's not forget that kids can often easily, without their parents knowing, disable those pesky filters so they can surf freely again. this brings us to the third line of action, which is information. i think that is the most important line of action. many internet users, especially parents, are completely unaware of the risks their children face online. many parents therefore have no idea what their children are doing or experiencing online. to promote a truly safe environment for children, therefore, a major investment in parental education is needed. just as parents try to make their children resilient in the offline world by telling them not to go with strangers, parents could do a better job of guiding their children online. it is necessary for these parents to be aware of the fact that there are risks. i believe that technical security is also a crucial aspect of information. a lot of the unwanted content that internet users face is the result of a lack of security on their own computers. for example, spyware, which redirects your internet browser to a certain pornographic or gambling site, or annoying pop-ups that you can't get rid of. the lack of technical protection of the computer can also unknowingly lead an internet user to disseminate illegal or unwanted content, with all the consequences that this entails. research shows that most european broadband users still do not have sufficient protection for their computers. this is why information campaigns must take this into account. the fourth line of action is the establishment of the safer internet forum. a unique forum for discussion among businesses, internet providers and software developers, but also user organisations such as parents, child protection organisations, consumer clubs, civil rights movements and so on. this forum can be used to work on self-regulation. codes of conduct should be developed to examine how the sector itself can contribute to a safer internet, for example, by means of information for the users themselves, but also by means of good agreements made through self-regulation on transparent and careful notice and take down procedures, something which is very much needed. it is important to realize that the use of the internet will always be associated with certain risks. it will never be possible to completely clean up the internet of unwanted content, and that is not at all desirable. it is the responsibility of parents to guide their children. just as every parent or child learns not to go with strangers when playing outside, so there are rules of conduct for the internet and that is why the education, which is addressed in this programme, is also extremely important. since the programme is due to come into force in january next year, a rapid procedure was necessary. i have been working with the shadow rapporteurs in a very constructive dialogue with both the council and the commission in recent times and this report is the result of our work. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the interlocutors in the commission and the council. we've taken most of our points by far. the european commission and the council fully support this text. the report was unanimously adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i hope that the same support will be given in the plenary so that the safer internet plus programme can be launched with a vigour on 1 january 2005.
i would like to begin by thanking mr fabra vallés for the way in which he has always been willing to enter into an open dialogue with parliament over the last three years. i would also like to wish mr kallas every success in his new role and i hope that the european court of auditors will issue a positive statement of assurance at the end of this period. most of us have fresh memories of the elections and one of the main criticisms we have always heard - mr kallas pointed this out in his introduction - was that after ten years the european commission still cannot get a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. that is the wheat on the mill of the euro-sceptics. we must work hard to get that explanation. the court of auditors should, however, be more clear about what the commission is required to do. what are the criteria? i read year after year that it's getting better, but i never know how much better it's gonna get. what concrete measures should be taken? the european parliament has already made a number of suggestions in the past. for example, the increase in financial corrections. has the court of auditors ever analysed that? we stated in the resolution last year that if it should be found that money is being misused in a particular sector, the commission should suspend the payment of advances. in the commission's reply to the court of auditors' observations, the commission says that this also happens regularly. what exactly has been the effect of that? did it help? and what is the relationship between the european court of auditors and the national audit bodies? is it true that the national audit bodies apply the same criteria for the statement of assurance as the european court of auditors? and is it not possible for a member state to sign a declaration at the end of each financial year that all expenditure is reliable? if that is not the case, the european commission can go to that country and say: you're gonna get a ticket for putting something on our sleeve. these are all concrete measures that could be taken. could the court of auditors analyse this further? i think it is important that we work towards that. yesterday we had a debate on the new financial perspective. most people say, we need to have more money than the 1% that some member states want. but how can that be defended when year after year it turns out that the money is not being spent well? the arguments for more money are less strong. i therefore believe that there is a lot of work to be done for the european court of auditors. i was also surprised to see point 0.6 of the general introduction to the 2003 annual report. it states that the increase in outstanding liabilities has never been so high. at the end of 2003, commitments were equivalent to five years of payments. that's incredibly high. so we could actually go on for five years without making any new commitments. those five years just go on, or am i wrong? so i think there's a tremendous amount of work to be done. it is not possible that in two or three years' time we will still not have a positive certificate of reliability. the commission must set clear criteria, those criteria must be checked by the european court of auditors and the european court of auditors must indicate the extent to which the objectives we have set ourselves have been achieved.
the court of auditors' annual report is a good tool for parliament. that is also a compliment to the outgoing president. however, before i go into the report, i have two political comments. the liberal and socialist groups have made comments on agricultural policy. i will not deny that there are times when something goes wrong with the payment, but it can never be that when the european commission or a national member state does not apply the rules properly, the sector has to bleed for it. implementation can never be a reason to launch a new attack on the european agricultural policy with its high standards of food safety, the environment and animal welfare. i would like to turn to one specific point in the report, namely the animal disease policy in the european union. the court of auditors rightly points out that the abolition of the non-vaccination policy in the early 1990s was based on assumptions. those assumptions have changed a lot. the number of slaughterhouses has decreased dramatically and the transport of livestock has increased explosively. the fao warned the european commission in 1998 of the consequences and the possible spread of animal diseases. i note that the commission has done almost nothing with these warnings. under pressure from the temporary committee on ped, legislation on ped has been partially amended, but still not in accordance with the advice of the fao or the international office for infectious animal diseases (oie). the commission's much more forceful approach would do justice to the court's report on this point. the commission should tackle three issues. first of all, it must ensure that non-vaccination policies are put on a back foot, that vaccination becomes the norm and that it is also established worldwide in accordance with the requirements of the oie. secondly, the implementation of the directive must be coordinated in the member states. thirdly, the whole business of european regulations, including the payment of slaughter premium, must never again be allowed to stand in the way of the implementation of this policy.
rapporteur. - mr president, when i was given the responsibility of rapporteur on the eu-turkey relationship, i intended to write my report in a substantive, fair, balanced and factual manner. in addition to the european commission's study and other reports, i have also drawn on my many visits to turkey. i've been there for the past few months, since the beginning of october, for over two weeks. let me say that i am impressed by the reforms that turkey has undergone. more has happened in the last few years than in the four decades before. the support of parliament for this, but also the continued support of the people for these changes, i say in my report with conviction is impressive and worthy of commendation. at the same time, i have also become convinced that, as the report has indicated, more reforms must be introduced and implemented. the current reforms must also be better implemented to ensure that turkey fully meets the political criteria. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his excellent report. human rights first. in the area of legislation, the government has made considerable progress in this area. i am also of the opinion, apart from the european commission and the council of europe and all the human rights organisations, that there is no systematic torture in turkey. the debate about whether or not it is systematic, however, ignores the real question before us. the real issue is that the approximately 100 cases of torture reported by amnesty international, human rights watch and other organizations in police cells are far too many. a hundred too many for a country that really wants to grow into europe. that is why this report pays so much attention to this. there should be an independent inspection service working with ngos, which should be able to enter police stations. it is also necessary to establish very strongly the practice that any reported case of human rights violation in police cells is immediately dealt with in the judicial system. then religious freedom. there are still many problems in this area too, and in particular there has not been much progress on this point. the alevis, more than 30% of the population, are not fully recognised. the smaller religions have problems with property rights, with training their priests, their monks and their clergy, but also with simply recognizing that they too are part of that turkish identity. i think we really need a button on this. or as mr. ali birand, a well-known journalist from cnn turk, put it last week: "let turkey be proud of these smaller religions too, instead of limiting them". the report makes very clear statements about the necessary progress in religious freedom. a third point concerns women's rights. as with human rights, there have been many positive changes in the law on women's rights. only the practice is much less rosy in some respects, with forced marriages and honour killings. turkey needs to invest heavily in combating illiteracy among women and in improving their education. ngos that provide shelter for female victims of such cases should also be strongly supported. the report is also very clear on this point. three other points, mr president. turkey has already made many constitutional changes, but its constitution still dates from the military period. i think it is therefore important that this report says that if turkey really wants to grow much further, we recommend that it adopt a new constitution. then the sensitive point armenia. the report proposes that a bilateral committee of armenian and turkish experts be set up to establish the historical facts. the european union must also be able to take action to help the people of armenia, and to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia, to help the people of the former yugoslavia. last but not least cyprus. i think the report is very clear on the recognition of cyprus, on the withdrawal of troops and on the push for new negotiations to bring about a lasting peace and reunification of the island. the report before you, mr president, is constructive, but not naive. it's realistic, but critical where necessary. the negotiations can be opened without undue delay, according to the report, under three conditions. firstly, that a number of laws, which the commission is also talking about, have actually been changed and introduced. i know turkey is working on it. secondly, that the monitoring by the commission is fully under way. thirdly, and this is very important for us and for myself as rapporteur, it is emphatically stated that when negotiations begin, the first phase of those negotiations will be focused on further refining the political criteria in law, but also in practice. i have done my utmost to achieve cooperation in parliament in which this balance is maintained in a constructive but critical manner. i ask all the parties involved to remain true to these compromises, including in this final debate in plenary. as rapporteur, i say, and this is also stated in the report, that it will now be up to turkey to prove whether it can do what it has to do and whether it can really achieve the level required for membership of the european union by further changes in the field of human rights, religious freedom, women's rights. it's up to turkey now, the ball is in their court. we must, however, ensure that turkey's cooperation with the european union will be very strong in the future. the report is very clear on this point. i think we should all now send a strong signal to turkey to seize this opportunity. the country will have that real opportunity, but we in this house must also send a strong signal about our own relevance as a parliament by looking in the years ahead to see whether turkey is really moving forward and whether it is moving sufficiently forward. the european parliament must encourage turkey to do so. i think that is very important and that is why, mr president, i hope that by the end of this week it will be clear that not only the committee on foreign affairs has been able to support this report in a broad sense, but also this plenary of the european parliament.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, my group also supports the report in its main lines, as amended by the committee on foreign affairs. as the rapporteur has already said, it is a critical but constructive report. that does not mean that we agree with every paragraph - that is why our group has amendments - but we support the report in general terms. i would like to respond to two positions in the debate in european public opinion, but also in the debate in this parliament. firstly, the position of those who are simply opposed to turkish membership. mr poettering has said this and i do not have time to go into all these arguments. what i would like to warn against is the attempt to try to get that position in mr eurlings' report by means of amendments, by anticipating the possible failure of the negotiations in a sometimes weakened form and by referring again to other forms of relations between turkey and the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear. the european parliament is not here to kick in open doors or to reward christian-democratic symbolism. the report is very clear at the moment. the negotiations should be opened as soon as possible and without undue delay. nothing in life is certain, and neither are these negotiations, but the objective must be clear and obvious, namely full membership. that's how it is, and that's how it should stay. colleagues, vote all attempts to get that out away. a second position taken in the debate is that of the critics, who feel that too little has been done and that much more should be done, particularly in the field of human rights. let me be clear about this, too. i was in turkey last week with the president, mr borrell, and mr eurlings. we have spoken to many people in istanbul, ankara and also in dyabakir. we've spoken to human rights activists, lawyers and religious minorities. and they all say that there is indeed still a lot of evil in turkey and according to some we are only halfway there. however, at the end of all the talks they all asked to please start the negotiations, because that is the best guarantee that the reforms that are taking place will continue. it is also the best support for all those who have dared to work for reforms over the last 15 years. the european commission's report, like that of mr eurlings, contains sufficient guarantees to simply stop the negotiations should the human rights situation deteriorate in the future. i am in favour of this, and so is my group. if you are in favour of human rights, if you really believe that torture should be further reduced, if you believe that the kurds should also be able to exercise their rights in practice, then vote in favour of opening negotiations. that doesn't mean it's going to happen tomorrow, that doesn't mean it's going to be easy. i realize that, and so do the turks. but the opportunity is there, and it's not the time to waste it. i hope that the european parliament will be able to vote on wednesday and the european council two days later to take a strategic decision with far-reaching consequences for europe. turkey can show - and mr schulz has already referred to this - that democracy and islam do go together. that is the best antidote to the sceptics who now have the upper hand in europe and say that this will never be possible. turkey can show that it can and europe can show that it can contribute to preventing a clash of civilizations between the west and the islamic world, a clash that many fundamentalists in east and west hope for. europe can show that there is room for multiple cultures on the basis of shared values and that there is room for multiple religions in the europe of the 21st century.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is precisely this laudable attitude that our rapporteur, mr eurlings, is proud of. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. the turkish prime minister and the president of the turkish parliament give the strong impression that their country already meets the political criteria for accession. in short, brussels would question ankara on this crucial point. but nothing could be further from the truth. this is a promising development for the council and the commission if it is decided this week to start negotiations with the complainant mr erdogan. the rapporteur's findings suggest that paragraph 4 of his report could be deleted. it is a statement of appreciation for the continued strong motivation and political will of the turkish government and parliament to move towards the european union. i have also been very frank with the rapporteur, mr president, about the fundamental lack of religious freedom in turkey. i am really at a loss for words about the downright petty attitude of the turkish authorities towards the various tiny christian minorities in their territory. for example, see the frankfurter allgemeine of the past few weeks, but also the neue zürcher zeitung of friday. i therefore very much appreciate the critical attitude of mr eurlings in this basic violation of human rights. still, i think he's overdoing it by fighting the symptoms. i therefore urge him once again to support my amendment calling on the council and the commission to demand from the turkish authorities that, in accordance with the political criteria of copenhagen, the christian churches be granted legal personality immediately and that the presidency for religious affairs be abolished without delay. the latter, moreover, does not dismantle a persistent political myth, namely that of the secular turkish state with all its backwardness of non-sunni. mr president, the category of non-sunni includes the substantial minority of alevis. they and the large kurdish community do not wish to consider themselves as minorities but as an integral part of the republic of turkey. more like co-founders. the european institutions must really avoid such explosive turkish political problems, or else they will implode.
i would like to begin by congratulating my compatriot, mr eurlings. he has had to act as rapporteur on this very complicated issue and i think he has done a very good job so far. we in our group have of course also followed closely the debate on turkey and whether or not to open negotiations. we have recently visited turkey as a group to learn about the discussions taking place there. it has reaffirmed our position. we believe that turkey should be able to become a member of the european union in principle, and that is, of course, the first question you have to answer. the integration of turkey into europe would be a crucial and symbolic step. in this respect, the eu does not in principle present itself as a closed association, but opens itself to a country that is oriented towards european standards. we expect a positive impact of turkish membership for the future, not least for developments in what we might call the greater middle east. the progress made in turkey is of course also of great importance to us. the democratic changes will benefit the turkish people in particular, but europe also represents the values they want to share. turkey is changing rapidly, and in recent years it has shown that turkey has a huge capacity for reform in many areas, and we would like to continue to support this process. our group has recently emphasized four points in particular. firstly, the negotiations are about membership of the european union. we reject a formula which points to something else. secondly - and this is something we all have to realise - the negotiations will take a long time. thirdly, because it will take so long and there is so much to be done, the opening of negotiations does not, of course, guarantee a successful outcome in advance. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the accession of turkey to the european union is fully respected. we are positive about the current dynamics in human rights. of course, this one has to go on. if there is a relapse, there is an explicit possibility of suspending the negotiations. this has also happened in previous cases, notably in the case of slovakia. when we were not satisfied with the political situation in that country, the negotiations were suspended for a number of years. there is no discrimination in this respect. all these points are also reflected in mr eurlings' report. so he can count on our support during the course of this week.
president. - thank you to the rapporteur, mr eurlings, for his efforts. much has been said about the political criteria of copenhagen. let me be clear: i am not opposed to turkish membership on principle. i cannot and will not support the view that the opening of negotiations with turkey is necessary to ensure that the protection of human rights and minorities, for example, is given a smooth start. it's the wrong order as far as i'm concerned. the enlargement process in general is characterized by the setting of conditions and criteria which are forgotten at the moment of supreme need. i do not want to make human rights as such an instrument, as one of my colleagues has said. i would like to stick to the agreements we made. the question is whether turkey meets the political criteria of copenhagen, and the answer is no. i see the opening of negotiations as the starting point for a process such as we are now seeing with romania, namely that of a train that continues and ends in accession, in which negotiating chapters are artificially closed and the criteria set no longer matter. this would sooner or later weaken the union. it would be a good thing for me if this house also respected the agreements made, if this house also finally put an end to the great arbitrariness that characterizes the enlargement process, the double standards.
i too believe that we must start negotiations immediately, with a clear objective, namely full membership. yes, there are still a lot of problems, which have been discussed at length here, but i would urge that the debate be kept pure and not be based on fear, prejudice and hypocrisy. we have spoken a lot about european values here and many people doubt that turkey will ever be able to embrace these values. i would point out to those people that all 25 of the present member states have trampled on those european values at some point in the course of the 20th century. there have been criminal regimes and dictatorships. human rights were trampled on in the most brutal way in the second world war, and yet today we are all members of the european union and full democracies. it is arrogance to think that some peoples are destined to live in oppression, misery and backwardness. the european union was created to guarantee peace, freedom and prosperity after all the horrors of the second world war. if a modern, democratic and free turkey joins, the mission of the european union will have been successful.
i am glad that after so many amendments, mr eurlings' report seems to have come through. i am also glad that prime minister balkenende today confirmed with chancellor schröder that full membership will be negotiated with turkey and nothing else. i am therefore not so pleased that amendments have been tabled in this house suggesting something other than full membership. mr president, these are exciting days for turkey and for europe, and there will be many exciting years ahead. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. turkey must also learn to deal well with ngos such as the red crescent and to see them as useful to the european integration process rather than as a burden. the same ngos are calling on the eu to open negotiations with turkey. many of them believe that this will help the human rights situation in turkey. mr president, many people in europe will soon be celebrating christmas, but many will also be celebrating the feast of the sacrifice. also in turkey. i hope that the council's decision on 17 december will be a cause for celebration for everyone, because both turkey and the european union can benefit from a fair and open process of negotiations. the eurlings report is a first step in the right direction, towards full turkish membership of the european union.
the european parliament is debating today, mr president, the strategic and political objectives of the european commission, bearing in mind the recent confrontation between these two european institutions. in many ways parliament is now reminding president barroso that he has made sometimes far-reaching commitments under pressure from the european parliament. i would like to draw particular attention to one of mr barroso's commitments, namely that he will actively promote and protect fundamental rights, equal opportunities and the fight against discrimination. we believe that the european commission should shape this policy in such a way that the european union does not overstep its ethical boundaries. the fight against discrimination must not lead to a reduction in the scope for biblically based views on marriage and the sanctity of life. secondly, i would ask the new european commission to exercise restraint in the ratification process of the european constitution. this ratification is and remains a matter for the national states. the commission must refrain from a unilateral campaign in favour of the european constitution. of course, the european commission's efforts to increase turnout in national referendums must also benefit those who oppose them. they too must be taken seriously in a genuine democracy.
president, mr president of the commission, i should like to make a few remarks on foreign policy. we will no doubt be facing each other many times in the years ahead when it comes to the european union's foreign and security policy. i think that the commission and the president of the commission have a major role to play in ensuring policy coherence and in ensuring that there is good coordination between the commission's tasks and those which are the responsibility of the council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. so far we have depended on the very good relationship between commissioner patten and high representative solana. but now we come to a somewhat different situation. a situation that is also enshrined in the constitution. what we expect and ask of the commission in particular is that, in the run-up to the adoption and ratification of the constitution, it should continue to work in this spirit and seek an integration model which combines the potential of the various pillars - the first, second and third pillars. that's the first point. the second point of interest to us is the european union's commitment to promoting effective multilateralism. this is the european commission's contribution to the european union's international action. we also want the commission to pay close attention to the implementation of the civilian aspects of the european union's security policy. i would also like the commission to reiterate its past commitments to strengthen the european union's role in conflict prevention. i also think it is important to have a debate, including with the united states, on the future of the un. this is a very topical matter in which the commission can be expected to make an active contribution. this must be a new element in the transatlantic dialogue. the main theme for us is to make the world more democratic, starting with europe of course. i shall be brief on the third point. the enlargement of the european union and the commission's involvement in the negotiations with turkey, which we discussed this week, will be important tasks in the coming years. the fourth point concerns relations with russia. a resolution on this will be adopted this week. how can we develop the relationship with that country along two lines? on the one hand, economic cooperation and the work on a common energy policy, on the other, an open debate on values, democracy and developments in russia in this field. for us, a heated debate on the relationship between the eu and russia is inevitable, as is a debate on our common neighbours, which should include russia, moldova, the caucasus and ukraine. finally, a word about the new neighbours. in ukraine, we believe that the people have given a clear signal. what will be the european union's reaction to this after the third round of the presidential elections? the new neighbourhood policy, as it is now, does not seem to us to be a satisfactory answer to what is developing there. i think that the eu action plans under the new neighbourhood policy should be more closely linked to the european aspirations that have emerged very clearly in ukraine. i think that requires a new debate in this parliament. in short, there is a need for a more comprehensive concept of the new neighbours, a european ostpolitik.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr salvador garriga polledo, for the excellent cooperation. although i am moderately satisfied with the final result, i do think that he has done his best to put parliament's position, but much more the position of the european countryside, into perspective. i have the same feeling about the dutch presidency, and that brings me right back to my great disappointment with this budget. with this agreement we are now almost a billion short of the correct estimate and the commission's proposal on what is needed. i know that the dutch presidency has played a good role in preventing this in part, but i am very disappointed with the rest of the council, which has not followed up the latest commission proposal. i am surprised to see this in the case of the european countryside, in the case of the major agricultural reform which has now been introduced and which will lead to sometimes dramatic declines in incomes, but i am also surprised to see this in the case of the huge rural development programme which we have yet to introduce in the ten new member states. in these circumstances, such a cut is unacceptable. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. this is an incredibly small amount when we consider that european agriculture has the highest standards in the world in terms of the environment, animal welfare, landscape protection, food security and food safety. if you want to sit in the front row for a nickel, you might get a little bit of a nose job. we cannot continue in this way. i hope that this will not lead to further cuts in the agricultural budget, but that we will continue to fight for a competitive agriculture, also in europe. in that connection, i have a couple of things to say to my british colleagues in the independent party and the non-attached parties about their criticism of the european agricultural policy. i can tell them that britain receives a disproportionate share of the agricultural budget. my own country represents 7% of production and receives only 2% of the money. in britain, it's the other way around. without this parliament the foot-and-mouth crisis in britain would not have been resolved in a meaningful way. if these gentlemen can do nothing but give in to this, they have not understood what is at stake - including the british countryside - and they are leaving the british countryside completely in the cold. the british countryside is something we, as a parliament, as the european people's party, have an eye on. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the green group believes that the commission's proposals provide a good basis for negotiations between parliament and the council. i understand that you now want to call it the barroso package instead of the prodi package. i'm all for that. it's the content that matters to me. 1.14% of gdp for investment in the lisbon strategy, for money for economic stimulus in the poorer regions and for strengthening the role of the european union in the world. it's all wonderful. my group, however, is also critical of your plans. the future generations, our children, will be left with a few things. there is insufficient investment in renewable, sustainable energy sources. that is bad for the environment and it also makes us dependent on all kinds of dubious regimes in countries where oil is flowing in abundance. there is no separate fund for natura 2000, there is insufficient money to improve the reception of refugees in the region and there is too little increase in funding for culture and youth exchange programmes. we want to promote europe a little less and make sure that people experience europe a little more. so 1.14% "plus" as far as my group is concerned. that is indeed something different from what many member states say. some of those member states still have the 1% mantra. in the meantime, they have even been radicalized in a sneaky way, because i understand that they are now talking about 1% in commitments instead of payments, which traditionally always end up a little lower. that would mean that we would have a lower budget than we have now until 2013. that is for a greater european union. and in the meantime, make laundry lists with ambitions! the member states are not all on the same page. the cuts in agriculture and the structural funds are very controversial. so a child might think that they will remain largely intact in the big negotiations. what will it be reduced to? to money for research, development, human rights, the environment, foreign policy and culture. the very issues that are close to people's hearts and which have a visible added value when implemented at european level. a budget born of euroscepticism will only fuel that euroscepticism. we are maintaining a europe which is primarily oriented towards the market and the currency, and that is absolutely the wrong way. i agree with mr lamasourre, who says that we need more active leadership from the european commission. if we really want - and we are for this - to see europe as a europe of unity in diversity, we must also start to invest actively in this. i would also like to say to the european commission: "use us, for you do not yet know our position. perhaps we are advocating 1.5% because we are much more ambitious than the member states. then you are in the middle with 1.14%". i hope you will come to the strategic understanding that will dispel all the smoke that is being raised and which we think is a little bit of a fire underneath - perhaps you have secretly dropped it somewhere at 1.07% after all. come up with a clear vision of where you want to go with this europe, show your leadership. it is also important to show this in the negotiations, because this is the only way to create a europe which is not the old europe of the market and the currency, but a europe which is concerned with people and the environment.
president. - the prodi multiannual financial package is now called the barroso multiannual financial package. if it's only 1.14%. however, that is not the point for me - 1%, 1.14%, 1.24% ... the real debate is whether we are prepared to pay for the political priorities set out in the new european constitution. so , what do you say ? "putting your money where your mouth is". it is precisely on this point that our citizens have too often seen european leadership fail. six points for the win. one of them. europe must be a social europe, but in most countries private and public investment in education and research is lagging behind. the cuts are severe - 3% - but there is not enough room for investment in research and education. the golden rule is not allowed in the stability pact. two of them. we are not prepared to make a real switch from agricultural product subsidies to rural and nature policies for the sake of internal social cohesion and our priority, knowledge. this would create real space for knowledge innovation in rural and urban areas, with priority for the ten new entrants. in europe, we say in the constitution that we want europe to play a central role in the world. one in five citizens in the world currently does not have access to education and health care. we talk about the millennium development goals and about 2015, but what we actually see is too little spending on this by the eu member states and by the eu itself, despite decisions by the european parliament. we want the new commission plans and the commission communication on development policy to be given priority in parliament in january with broad support for these millennium development goals under heading 4. 35% for the millennium development goals and 20% for basic education and basic health care. mr borrell rightly said: "if it's not in the budget, it doesn't exist". so we want it. - four of them. we see poor european leadership in foreign policy. big decisions, but no money. we want a middle east policy in one go, and we're taking money away from poverty reduction in africa. we want a new neighborhood policy. that is fine and absolutely necessary, but we will be taking money away from the poverty reduction in asia and latin america. each objective deserves its own budget. we shouldn't take it away from each other. - what? we want national fraud and audit certification agencies to ensure fast, fraud-free implementation and subsequent approval in every country. we're too vulnerable in that area right now. - i got six. finally, citizens also want to see each country contributing fairly and to the extent of its ability to bear the costs of the european budget. if that's 1%, it's 1%, if that's 1.15%, it's 1.15%, but each country by capacity and each country by equity. fair and square. that is true for the netherlands and for other countries. we shall then have the support of our european citizens for a truly serious policy.
commission. i am very happy to reply to this question, because immediately after i was designated as the commissioner responsible for several areas, including olaf, i was approached and asked how to go ahead with various projects and proposals on the future of olaf, including possible management decisions. several different options were proposed. one was to fill this post through an open competition. i promised that i would express my opinion after the formalities were over. the formalities were completed on 22 november and immediately after the new commission started we made the decision to advertise this post and fill it through an open competition. today we received the final opinion of the legal services about some nuances concerning the announcement. a few days ago i received the first version of the job description, so the post will be advertised very soon. there will then be an open competition.
i would like to know how the new time schedule looks now, and what time has been allocated to parliament to hear the candidates.
it is important, mr president, that we have the opportunity here to discuss the financial framework in good time and to vote on it regularly in the parliamentary committees. this is particularly true of cohesion policy and regional policy. regional policy has actually worked very well in recent periods. the differences in europe have diminished considerably. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but that can only be done if the new regulations are adopted in time by this parliament in consultation with the commission and the council. in concrete terms, this means that we must be able to decide on this by the middle of next year, by the middle of 2005, otherwise the history of 1999 will repeat itself, when we debated for too long and did not have enough time to implement. the lisbon agenda calls for the perseverance of national governments and those involved in the regions. that requires us to be ready on time. in this respect, a delay to the second half of 2006, under the british presidency, would be extremely bad for the policy. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize once again the importance of regional policy in the context of the lisbon objectives, innovation, promotion of competition and the new budgetary objective 2, partly because it can promote cooperation in the regions and cooperation between partners. the financial perspective is as follows. of course, that cannot be done with 1%. the experience gained in decentralised cooperation between provinces, regions, cities and civil society partners in regions across europe has also helped to ensure that the implementation takes place close to the people. that's what's gotten a lot of people involved. if 1% were to lead to renationalisation of policies, we would be missing the european added value and i would regret that very much.
i would like to add my support to the many warm words already spoken by a number of colleagues and i would also like to ask you to support this report. it is an excellent report. we have a very serious problem and we urgently need a solution, but a real, lasting solution and not a stop-gap. what is really needed in the long term is, of course, legal immigration into the european union. it is a missed opportunity in that respect that the council has explicitly excluded legal immigration from qualified majority voting. it seems that member states can more easily agree on how to keep people out of the eu than on how to get them into the eu in a good way. the eu and parliament too have spoken a lot in recent weeks and months about european values and human rights. this is particularly emphasized in the debate on the commission, but also in connection with turkey. our level of civilization is measured by the way we treat our fellow men and the way we put our values into practice. asylum seekers are not criminals, they are fellow human beings and should therefore be welcomed under humane conditions. they deserve our support. i therefore support this report.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, if i could reduce drug use by voting against this report, i would do so immediately. unfortunately, that is not possible. i therefore call on this house to support this report. it is a very good and courageous report. what's the purpose of it? i think we all share that goal. i have also listened to mrs brepoels and we have supported a large part of her amendments. the aim is harm reduction, reducing the harm to the user and the environment. we must look at how best to achieve that. we have to look at what kind of policies are producing results, because that is what it is all about. it's not about ideology, it's about results. we must make policies based on facts, on research and the exchange of knowledge and experience, not on ideology. it is therefore regrettable that the evaluation of the previous strategy was not available in time. it has just been said that the council will decide in the coming days to adopt this strategy. i would be very sorry if the council did that without the european parliament having a say in it. the report takes a pragmatic, realistic approach and, frankly, i read it very differently from mrs brepoels. i do not think that it says anything about the absolute prohibition of repression. it is of course true - and this also applies to dutch policy, which is the subject of a great deal of misunderstanding - that this repression must be targeted and effective. if we look at the great american war on drugs, i see that it has only paid into the pockets of the drug lords, but has not led to less drug use. prevention and a pragmatic approach must be the key. let me give you a few examples. these are also controversial in the netherlands. everyone has a hard time with it, and it's not a decision to be taken lightly. for example, you're supposed to give needles to drug users who live outside on the street, right? does that mean you approve of their drug use? no, of course not, but if you're giving out needles, at least you know for sure that there are no dirty needles lying around and that no dirty needles are being used. like, at big house parties where young people are taking all kinds of pills, ecstasy and stuff, do you have to test the quality of those pills? do you have to provide information? for example, should you make sure that these young people do not drink alcohol when taking these pills? is that your way of saying that drug use is okay? that's a risk. on the other hand, i see that if you don't, young people die at those parties. as long as they're still using drugs, and they are, i think prevention and information are important. we have tabled two amendments, and i will end with these, on the exchange of information and the study of alternative methods.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, today we are discussing the controversial report by mr catania on the european strategy against drugs. the fight against drugs, not the promotion of drugs, is the main issue. it is obvious that we are, if i read the title of the report, in agreement on that. drugs have no place in a healthy society. if we are to take the fight against drug trafficking seriously in the european union, we will need to apply sanctions. we can no longer tolerate people who make money off addicts and destroy lives. but it is a waste of time if we do not, on the other hand, do everything we can to combat drug abuse. in addition to preventive measures, the possibility of taking punitive action against drug use should be maintained. i have therefore tabled two amendments on behalf of my group to allow the continued application of sanctions for drug offences alongside preventive measures. i urge you to support these amendments. that does not make it a good report. i must say that the report is full of ideology, despite the fact that it is claimed to be the opposite. president, i'm going to circle back. thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
mr president, drugs which were once used only in the private sphere by the rich were also discovered in the 1960s by rebellious and critical young people. they saw the use of soft drugs as part of their liberation struggle. since then, policy in a number of states has been to isolate, criminalize, punish and eliminate drug users. this repressive approach has not prevented the spread of drug use. the alternative to this approach is not to become indifferent and therefore resign ourselves to the damage drugs, like alcohol and nicotine, do to the health of their users and the harm they cause to others. the conflict with the traders, who make a lot of money off the problems of others, we must not avoid. my group colleague giusto catania, in his report, points out the right way to reduce the problems as much as possible. it is in line with the practice of tolerance, prevention and assistance to users and of distinguishing between the addictive risks of different types of drugs, which has developed in the netherlands, belgium, switzerland and parts of germany. i know that this approach raises emotional objections among those who had the illusion of being able to eradicate drugs by punishing the users, but it has only produced resistance to unfreedom. that is why we need broad support for the alternative now.
we are at an important moment in this chamber and the main topic of discussion these days - not only in politics but also in public opinion - is of course the possible start of negotiations with turkey. as rapporteur, i should like to say - and i have said this on many occasions - that my visits to turkey have given me a very mixed feeling. on the one hand, there is very great progress, impressive progress, but on the other hand, there is still a considerable backlog if we were to put turkey on the same footing as a country which really wants to be a member of the european union. the reforms in the areas of human rights, women's rights and religious freedom must therefore continue. i cannot stress enough that the pressure on that point simply has to be high. the turkish media and turkish journalists themselves say: "stick and carrot, keep the pressure up". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in the field of religious minorities, there must be a change of mentality so that people are proud of minority religions instead of trying to suppress them. in the area of, for example, the law on foundations, further legislative changes are needed to make room for minority religions and minority cultures. i would therefore like to stress once again - apart from the whole great debate which has been going on for months, including in this house - that it would be good if an important part of the report now before the final vote were also to be included in the council's conclusions. the point is this. i'll read you a few sentences in english, because i have the english text in front of me.
the dutch presidency is coming to an end. first of all, i would like to make an assessment of the efforts to reduce regulation at european level. the aim was to put an end to the brussels rule-making and to reduce the number of rules in brussels by at least 25%. of course, we are not at that 25% yet, but the tone has been set and that alone means a lot of profit as far as i am concerned. less regulation means more room for entrepreneurship, because it is entrepreneurs who have to pull the european economy out of the rubble. however, i still think it is desirable to have a european commissioner who works full time to abolish unnecessary and outdated rules. a second topic during the dutch presidency was the so-called hague decisions on terrorism and the fight against crime. the agreements reached in the hague show that the european union and, finally, the council, are making the fight against terrorism and crime one of their priorities. at the same time, a balance has been struck between effective approaches and additional legal possibilities on the one hand and the protection of personal data and fundamental freedoms on the other. it is the weak link that we are still following on this point and i think the council has done a fairly good job of it. a subject that has received less attention but for which good work has been done is human rights. i am referring in particular to the protection of human rights defenders. the practical implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders has come a step closer under the dutch presidency. a handbook will be prepared for eu delegations around the world providing for a rapid, flexible and robust eu response when human rights defenders are in danger of death or abuse. i congratulate mr atzo nicolaï for putting the need for good communication on european integration on the agenda. the citizens still see europe as a far-from-my-bed-show and turn their backs on it far too quickly. it is only through frequent communication and constant dialogue with the citizen, not only by the members of this house but also by the members of the commission and the council, that this gap can be bridged. finally, a comment on the debate on standards and values which has opened this presidency. as a liberal i am reluctant to have such a debate in general and to the purely christian character which the christian democrats tend to give in particular. i am also disgusted by the way the left-wing church has relativised the notion of standards and values. it is important that this debate has begun. it is a debate about what europe is, where it should go, where our borders lie and what we do and do not do. in short, the question of where our foundations lie. we have the union not just for the money. i thought the article by prime minister balkenende in the volkskrant of 7 december was excellent. one of its conclusions was that the union is about dynamic values. i believe these dynamic values include: respect, responsibility and trust. the debate has begun, and although the end is still far from being in sight, it is a compliment to the presidency. one last note. the presidency has certainly brought the european union closer to the dutch citizens and even to the dutch parliamentarians. i know this is a crusade of atzo nicolaï and it has proved very successful. i am also pleased about that as a dutch member of the european parliament.
i would like to begin by talking about the financial perspective. i hope that you will take the time at the summit to discuss in depth what kind of europe you are actually looking at before you leave this subject to the ministers. some member states want a budget that is more economical than the current one, which is just over 1%. the council cannot accept a reduction in the agricultural budget and there seems to be no possibility of agreement on cuts in the structural funds. what do you think will be reduced to? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a budget born of euroscepticism will only sow more euroscepticism. on terrorism, the draft conclusions of the forthcoming summit state that in our efforts to combat terrorism we must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. i agree with those terms, but i fear this is nothing more than a charm. see the discussion on storing the traffic data of all telephone and internet users or the biometric data in passports. the motto is: tough, tougher, tougher than ever. it is almost inappropriate to raise critical questions about the effectiveness or legitimacy of counter-terrorism measures. like generals in the military, european counter-terrorists always want the best stuff. at least in the case of defence procurement, politicians still have the discretion to weigh the costs against the benefits. when it comes to counterterrorism measures, hardly anyone dares to make that critical assessment. but i would invite you to do so at this summit, because if we continue in this way, we will be destroying the rule of law and the terrorists will have their way. i would like to conclude by making a small comment on transparency. the dutch presidency has promised to try to bring forward the implementation of the clause in the constitution on the basis of which the member states now meet in public - after all, they all agreed on this when the constitution was signed - or at least to hold more meetings in public. i would like to ask you, mr nicolaï, what you have achieved in this respect. i hope that during the luxembourg presidency the doors of the council of ministers will really be opened. we will then be able to see what is happening there in full transparency and the politicians will be held accountable for the decisions they take, just as we would like to be held accountable today for the decision we take on turkey.
president. - mr president-in-office, the council is discussing the accession of croatia, bulgaria, romania and turkey. i would encourage you to play hardball in the case of croatia when it comes to cooperation with the international criminal court, because without that cooperation it is irresponsible to start seriously with croatia. hold that! as regards romania, can you guarantee that we will keep the demands on that country strict? that is to say: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the accession of romania to the european union. even if that means romania joining later than bulgaria. then turkey. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. no b status, like a privileged partnership, and no end date? is that your position and will it remain so? are you also willing to say: the european union is not a party to the negotiations, but a party to the negotiations. i must say, moreover, that i still have a feeling of popular apathy about the secret vote we are threatening to hold today on turkey. i hope we don't have to. you've been debating standards and values lately. should you not have made that concrete by, for example, dealing with a question like romania or turkey? in the spirit of a french philosopher who said, i'm looking for the truth in the situation. why not? - why not? otherwise, it's gonna hang in the air for a while. does not the maintenance of, for example, the arms embargo against china fit very well into the debate on standards and values? it is not about islamic or christian, it is about the commonality of the rule of law and democracy and in that great diversity it is about the values that we have enshrined in our new constitution. i hope that the common denominator remains in the debate. the dutch presidency so far seems to me - and i have said this to you before - to have insufficiently clear ambitions and objectives. my question is: is this a sign of uncertainty or internal political contradictions within the dutch government, or will the big bang come at the top? the council has already presented us with very difficult problems in this respect. i shall forget this place of meeting, strasbourg, for a moment, but i will mention the inefficient treaty of nice and the agreements on agricultural expenditure which were too expensive and too little aimed at change. your ambitions for lisbon, kyoto in europe and the world are wonderful and we support them, but the financial resources you are spending on them are deplorable. the citizens are aware of this contradiction. now we're going to talk about terrorism again at a very high level, very enthusiastically. last week all the european police chiefs were here and they told us that the actual exchange of data is still not getting off the ground because of the different national practices. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the question remains: will mr de vries continue to swim or will he be allowed to function properly? in conclusion, i wish you every success with your position on turkey. i would say: no b status and no alternatives, we're going for real negotiations. i hope that you will give mr balkenende and mr poettering a good answer.
the dutch presidency is almost over. it was not, of course, the easiest period to be able to give europe leadership. it started a little later, after the holidays, then there was the handicap of a parliament that had just been elected and started to organise itself, and then the european commission also came into being with its hoards and bumps. the netherlands has tried to get on with the job under this not-so-lucky weather. that is why i think the netherlands should count its blessings, because despite that short period a great deal has been done. for example, the hague programme on internal security, the security of our citizens. on this point, minister donner, who is so often under attack in the netherlands, has done a very good job with his colleagues. camiel eurlings has already said a number of things about turkey. i won't repeat that. what i do have difficulty with, and which i think needs to be mentioned, is accepting the inclusion of romania and bulgaria as a fact. i think we should let the council, the summit, know that the matter, especially with regard to romania, is not yet settled, because there are still violations of human rights, children's rights and women's rights, and corruption is still rampant. i expect that if this continues, parliament's 'yes' will not be so certain. i would also like to make a similar remark about croatia. it seems that there is much more restraint on that point and i would ask the dutch presidency whether this now leads to something being done on that point too. finally, the lisbon agenda. the ambitions of the lisbon agenda must of course be compared with the resources devoted to it. i think that the 1% club at the top should at least ensure that there is a better look at what is needed for lisbon and how social cohesion with the 10 new member states can best be achieved. ambitions and means must be in harmony.
in writing. - since atatürk's revolution in 1923, turkey has been a typical european country, but in an old-fashioned authoritarian way that we no longer want in europe today. the power of the military is great, there are political prisoners, parties and newspapers are often banned and a 10% electoral threshold even keeps most legal parties out of parliament. the kurds, armenians and assyrians are given the choice between leaving or adapting to the language, culture and religion of the turkish majority. turkey needs to change a lot to be welcomed, not just in legislation but also in daily practice. after more than 40 years of waiting, it is now proposed to open negotiations on full eu membership soon. this is also the wish of the millions of europeans of turkish origin. the question of turkey's membership will not be decided before but during the negotiations. the risk is that the turkish government may feel that after three or five years of negotiations, its country has earned eu membership, while the problems of democracy, human rights and ethnic minorities are still unresolved. this can lead to conflict and eventually to a breakup. the copenhagen criteria should not be replaced by the ankara criteria.
in writing. i believe that negotiations with turkey should begin as soon as turkey meets the political copenhagen criteria, for example, in terms of protecting human rights and women's rights, fighting corruption, punishing torture and preventing child labour. turkey has made impressive progress in these areas, but according to reports from non-governmental organisations, it is not there yet. negotiations are being opened with a view to membership - only if it is concluded that membership would not be feasible will other forms of cooperation be considered.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, bulgaria will become a member state with many unresolved problems. long-standing environmental problems, caused by waste from mining and nuclear power, have not been solved. the construction of new roads through protected natural areas and the expansion of the largest airport are causing a lot of damage. poor maintenance, decay and poverty are visible everywhere in bulgaria today. the roma population is still backward and disadvantaged. the european union funds for projects for this group are allocated and spent in a controversial way. in the minds of many bulgarians, the nearby greek and romanian coasts actually belong to bulgaria, as do most of the republic of macedonia and some border areas with serbia. the fact that bulgarian voters have not yet made stable choices is evident from the rapid changes within the two major rival political parties, and especially from the fact that a newcomer almost won the majority in the last general election. shortly after the surprise election of the ex-king as prime minister, the candidate of the communist heirs was elected president. however, one positive consequence of this instability is that the turkish minority, which has been discriminated against in the past, should be better involved in political decision-making. unlike romania, the problems in bulgaria are not greater than those in some of the current eu member states. it is therefore right to allow bulgaria to become a full member of the european union as from 2007. there is a strong historical and linguistic link between bulgaria and the slavic-speaking part of macedonia. in 1878, last-minute intervention from western europe prevented these two from becoming one country. it would be good if the negotiations on the accession of macedonia - for which the committee on foreign affairs has appointed me as rapporteur - were as close as possible to those on croatia, which also emerged from the former yugoslavia, so that we can welcome bulgarians and macedonians together into the european union.
president. - this debate is really a congratulatory message to bulgaria. of course there are still many problems in this country, of course there are still many issues to be resolved, of course there is still much to be done in the field of human rights and human trafficking, but they are doing their best, and we were not always used to that in the past. i therefore believe that bulgaria should be able to join the european union in 2007. they're part of it. i would also like to see a debate on the accession of bulgaria given more attention than a debate on the accession of turkey. bulgaria is a genuine european country, it is also partly on the frontier of our new europe and it deserves all the attention. i see some problems with the accession. of course there are problems in bulgaria itself, but perhaps the biggest problem is in the european union. the financing of this accession has not yet been completed. after 2007, we are talking about the financial perspective until 2013, and i am surprised at the discussion taking place in the council, among other places, which states that in europe everything could be worth 1% of gross national product. if you look at all the prospects, there is no funding for that accession. i would also like to criticise the commission, which has rightly said that it needs a little more money than 1%. however, if we look at the proposals, for example for agriculture, we see that they do not include a budget for agriculture in bulgaria, whereas the development of the countryside in bulgaria will be essential for the development of the country itself. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i am therefore curious to see how the council intends to finance this accession and how we can ensure in a neat and tidy way that bulgaria can become a genuine european country in 2007. i would like to conclude on one other point. i was struck by the reactions of the united left - which still has some ex-communists - that they had some difficulty with the great political upheavals in bulgaria. i would like to say to them: the bulgarian people have a better understanding of politics than your group. you know why? they are counting on politicians to act, and that can lead to big shifts. i am glad that the bulgarians are more advanced in democratic thinking than many of my colleagues in the group of the european united left.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: this is not a debate between those who are for and those who are against romania's accession to the european union. my group has no objections in principle to romania's membership, even as of 1 january 2007. this is a debate between those who think romania is ready, that there are only a few stains to be removed, and those - and i count myself among them - who think romania is not ready and that therefore it cannot be said yes at the moment. i am frankly surprised at the composition of some of the groups. the same colleagues who rightly attached great importance to human rights this morning in the voting and discussions on turkey - a country at the beginning of the negotiations - are prepared to overlook just about everything in the case of romania - a country at the end of the negotiations - when it comes to the same copenhagen criteria. there are also colleagues in this parliament whose view of reality is, quite frankly, clouded by the fact that party members may be involved in reprehensible matters, or because they hope that after the recent elections in romania everything will suddenly be very different. hope for improvement is fine, but please let's not be naive. the problems in romania are serious, so serious that i cannot say yes without hesitation. two examples. the situation of journalists, of the media in romania, has not improved in recent years, but has worsened. the number of attacks on critical journalists has increased, and the criticism of those journalists has often been linked to corruption cases. all the ngos, all the organizations that we always praise so much -- transparency international, the open society institute, the oecd -- they all come with one message: corruption is still a very big problem in romania, don't underestimate it. of course, everyone here will say that corruption must be fought. but how serious is a party that has a majority in the romanian parliament and whose member and former minister had to resign a year ago because of corruption, and is now vice-chairman of the same party and candidate for the senate? the foregoing, together with the reports by amnesty international on the truly abominable treatment of psychiatric patients, can only lead to one conclusion in my view, namely that romania must wait a little longer. i therefore ask the commission the following question. why does the commission not, for example, prepare a separate report next spring on the issues which are of such concern to everyone, including the rapporteur, namely freedom of the press, corruption, the independence of the judiciary? the commission will report on possible competition problems, but it does not intend to devote a new report to human rights problems. why should state aid be a stumbling block and not human rights? and to those who say - and this is also a comment on the commission and the presidency - that we still have the deferral clause which allows us to postpone romania's accession for a year, i would like to make it clear that that deferral clause is invoked only by the council, by unanimity. in other words: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. what about the use of qualified majority voting? i am sorry, but that is only possible in a number of specific areas, and that does not include freedom of the press, for example. i think that parliament should not give up its power by saying yes now and logically in march. parliament must take itself seriously. and i quote from a major dutch newspaper: 'europe may be great with kindness without honesty, but it is growth without substance, greatness without inner strength.' the strength of the european union lies in its principles which apply to everyone, including our political allies.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party. - mr president, romania has a long tradition of authoritarian and undemocratic governance, alternating between the left and the right. this tradition also includes an intolerant attitude towards the ethnic minorities of hungarians, roma and germans. there is always a great deal of attention paid to large steam power projects, huge factories and monumental buildings, but not to street children threatened by street smuggling and prostitution or to serious environmental pollution. a gold mining project in rosia montana is still threatened with chemical agents that could seriously pollute soil and river water over a long period of time. in the cities, behind monumental facades, we see decay, neglect and poverty. freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary are not what we want in europe. the lack of attractiveness of romania has also meant that in neighbouring moldova, which came under russian rule in 1940, initial support for returning to romania has temporarily decreased sharply. many romanians now look up to america and the dollar, and to a lesser extent turkey is also seen as an important economic partner and an example of a self-confident country. on the international scene, romania is today, like turkey, a close ally of the united states, even one which hinders cooperation with the international criminal court in the hague. recently, there have been complaints of electoral fraud. i do not expect the sloppy handling of parliamentary democracy to disappear now that a president of a different political colour has been elected last weekend, who will probably also determine the composition of a new government. this new government will probably feel that the previous government was too weak in its negotiations with the european union and allowed itself to be humiliated. this parliament, in its previous composition, was extremely critical of the possibility that romania would meet the standards of democracy, human rights and the environment that are common in the european union in the short term. it therefore seemed certain that romania could join later than bulgaria and at the earliest together with croatia. i am surprised by the recent turnaround in the committee on foreign affairs and the rejection of a number of critical amendments. the fear of humiliating romania and the desire for rapid enlargement of the european union now seem more important than solving problems. the group of the european united left would like to see romania join the european union as soon as possible, but, as in turkey, the problems of democracy, human rights and the environment must be solved, and that is still a very big problem at the moment.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, as a former ship's captain, the newly elected president of romania, traian basescu, is aware of the rough seas, which is not an insignificant advantage, because the state ship of his country, which he will take over, is currently facing dangerous tides. basescu will be the first to admit that outright. in an interview with the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung on november 26, the current mayor of bucharest explained the reason for his desire for a political turnaround in patria as follows: "the problem is corruption, it's elevated to a form of government here". the report by mr moscovici is equally clear on the files from bucharest on the way to brussels. for that, he deserves our sincere appreciation. the rapporteur is right to examine romania's shortcomings in all the accession criteria, including the political conditions. in previous reports by this house on the applicant country romania, i called attention to violations of press freedom. the report also makes a sad reference to this, see paragraph 8. physical aggression against investigative journalists, government pressure on financially weak media, it's all about the truth. in his recent book "threatened journalists, beat journalists", writer-journalist malin bot confirmed this gloomy picture. it is a direct indictment of the ruling press umbrella in romania. so there's work in store for basescu and his political cronies. moreover, in these countries, in western europe, we may well recall the words of malin bot about the dubious role of western publishers who have bought up many romanian newspapers: "they don't come to romania to defend democracy, but only to make money". end of quote. i hope that a new romanian government will take the european accession decisions fully seriously immediately. after all, it is not fair to blame her for the default of the nastase government. that list is long and heavy. besides, we're running out of time. the new president, mr basescu, is happy to acknowledge this, with the desired date of accession of 1 january 2007 in view. that is why he deserves our full attention and support during this undoubtedly difficult period. in this connection, this house is pleased to trust the commission to strictly enforce the security mechanism agreed with bucharest. i would like to draw the attention of bucharest to one paragraph in the moscovici report: "urges the acceleration of property restitution and the adoption of legislation on the restitution of churches". at the same time, i ask the council and the commission to monitor closely the implementation of this longstanding issue. the dutch presidency has already given its own parliament a commitment to this end. in a clever commentary in a german quality newspaper yesterday i read a sharp-eyed persiflage about the political transformation of romania under post-communist rule. in short, the writer parodied the title of prime minister nastase's campaign book, entitled: "from karl marx to coca-cola" which is a work entitled: "from karl marx to al capone" would be just as true. we warmly welcome the breakthrough of this stubborn political ban by romania under president basescu. the surprising result of the second round of the presidential elections seems to be an encouraging sign of this.
mr president, let me be clear. i am very much in favour of romania's accession, but everything will be done in due course and as agreed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore find it really incomprehensible that the commission should claim with a dry eye that romania meets the political criteria of copenhagen, while at the same time making extensive reference to the influence of the executive power on the outcome of the judicial process and confirming that corruption is still a widespread phenomenon and that there is still a lot of discrimination, especially against the roma. the rapporteur of this house also seems to have no problem in stating in the first paragraph of his report that romania meets the political criteria, and then, elsewhere in the report, rightly expressing his concern about a number of crucial points. the rapporteur then draws the unlikely conclusion that a satisfactory conclusion to the negotiations before the end of 2004 is both desirable and feasible. i would like to make a very different conclusion, based on common sense, namely that romania is not yet at that stage and that the negotiations cannot be concluded satisfactorily before the end of 2004. that is why we have tabled amendment no 7. our amendments nos 6 and 25 are also important. amendment no 6 stresses that the progress of all candidate countries is based on an assessment of their own merits and therefore recommends that the accession of romania and bulgaria be based on individual accession treaties. amendment no 25 necessarily brings paragraph 1 of the report into line with reality. i hope very much that we can count on your support so that the european council will receive a signal. the council has just confirmed that it has completed the formal negotiations with romania. this debate, as well as tomorrow's vote, is therefore one for the bühne. however, the european parliament must give its consent before the treaty of accession is signed in the spring of 2005. i do not think that this agreement is a foregone conclusion. it would be a good thing if this house were to speak out clearly against the premature and artificial termination of the negotiations with romania, if this house were to stop the great arbitrariness in the enlargement process and stick to the agreements reached. the way in which we are now proceeding with romania will sooner or later lead to the erosion of our legal community and to a weakened union.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i would like to thank commissioner kyprianou very warmly for the open way in which he has raised this subject again. you have just started your task and i think that your attitude offers at least prospects for very good future cooperation between parliament and the commission, also in this area. i'm not saying this for nothing. you have struck the nail right on the head when you say that the biggest problem with animal transport in europe is that it is hardly a priority for national governments. that's where we're stuck, and if we can improve that, that's a great step forward. let me illustrate this with an example. i note that at the moment the austrian government in particular is doing its job well, that it is doing its control well. this means that a large proportion of international transport of slaughter animals is no longer going through austria but via other routes to italy. such situations arise when a number of other member states fail to fulfil their obligations. in this respect, the austrian model should become the european model, with good legislation and good enforcement. it's a way to get rid of all the miserable arguments. the council has reached agreement and has made an adjustment without notifying parliament in advance, which i find very painful and which i also blame on the council. on the other hand, i must add that we would have been further from home without this initiative, because we cannot deny that this agreement is also an improvement on existing legislation. you know how this parliament thinks. i myself was rapporteur for a maximum transport time for slaughter animals. this, it now appears, was not feasible in the council. at the same time, i note that the introduction of the satellite tracking system is at least a fact and that there will be better enforcement of existing rules. i would like to hear from the commission on this point, how it intends to enforce this on the member states. does this require other instruments, including those of this parliament? i would also like to know how the commission intends to support the improvement of training. finally, i would like to point out that farmer-to-farmer transport has been extended. we would have liked to have seen 100 kilometers. it seems that this was not possible in the council, but we are still a step ahead. a couple of other points. first of all, there is still a lot of criticism about the way in which the transport of breeding animals is regulated and the rest periods mentioned in connection with it. the transport of animals must be carried out as quickly as possible and it would be a step forward if we also reduced the number of rest periods on the road for the transport of breeding animals, which is generally carried out under very good conditions. this means that animals can be transported over medium distances. the same applies to the roll-on/roll-off system on ferries. it would be helpful if we also said to the member states bluntly that this is just a rest period. this would be a further step forward in improving the quality of animal transport. as a former rapporteur, i am somewhat disappointed that there is no agreed maximum transport time for slaughter animals. i can see that this whole package is a real step forward. i am very curious to hear what proposals the commissioner will make before 2009 to ensure good cooperation with parliament, but also to force member states to comply with european rules.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i thank the commissioner for his words and share his disappointment at the council's compromise. there is no improvement in the driving times for transporting animals, no improvement in rest periods and no improvement in the maximum load levels, and this may continue for years to come. i wish the council every success in its attempt to explain this to european public opinion. it is extremely bad, also for the image of the whole sector, and it is unacceptable for the welfare of animals. i therefore support the proposal by my colleagues to limit the maximum driving time to eight hours. only such a decision would show that europe is really serious about sustainable agriculture, in which animal welfare must be one of the priorities. europe is built in small steps, as we all know, and that is also very good, indeed often the best. while the eu is taking too few steps to improve animal welfare, animals in europe are being dragged back and forth for thousands of kilometres in miserable conditions. it will be a pleasant and reassuring realization to them that they are being watched by satellites.
mr president, this is a crossborder problem which we cannot solve by national legislation alone. that is why the european commission and the european parliament have a role to play here. for years parliament has been flooded with petitions from people rightly calling for attention to animal transport abuses. this is especially true of horses that have been discarded in the east and destined for slaughter and consumption in the south. many animals are on long journeys in trucks, with little water and food, polluting, panicking and injuring themselves. the only way to prevent this is to reduce considerably the distance and time over which live cattle can be transported. at the beginning of this year the battle in this parliament was between 8 or 9 hours of continuous transport and between limited cheap protective measures or more far-reaching more expensive measures. the european parliament then made a very moderate choice, but even that was taken too far by the governments of a number of member states. the result is that there is still room for these abuses to continue. the key question is whether we accept this unnecessary suffering of animals because it is expected to reduce the cost of livestock and road transport companies, or whether we regard this suffering as completely contrary to our civilization and responsibility for the welfare of our fellow creatures. i choose civility and responsibility. what the commissioner is now saying is the failure of decision-making in the european union. we don't seem to have the resources to do what's urgently needed. national economic interests override our common civilization and responsibility. i do not doubt the good intentions of commissioner kyprianou when i hear him speak. i support his announcement of new initiatives by the european commission. i also agree with him that we had better start quickly with a result that is far too small than with nothing at all. satellite surveillance is of little comfort to the animal. let us not just rely on new techniques, but build the political will to really help this scourge out of the world. that's the whole point. i hope that we can achieve real results before the end of the term of this parliament and this commission, because what is happening is actually shameful.
in writing. i voted against the papadimoulis report today. if you look at my voting record in the past, it's consistent, too. the community action programme is something which, in my view, cannot stand the test of subsidiarity. each member state has its own programmes to protect citizens and its own coordination, training and assistance programmes. some european cooperation is appropriate, but a separate european centre with its own powers and 24-hour surveillance is not necessary. the financial basis of the proposal is also not in order, which is a second reason for me not to support it.
in writing. the dutch delegation of the socialist group in the european parliament agrees with the moscovici report, emphasizing the strict agreements made on monitoring the progress of the reforms and their implementation, particularly as regards the political criteria: the european union is committed to the protection of human rights, corruption and the independence of the judiciary. the dutch delegation of the socialist group in the european parliament will not hesitate to ask the commission to use the guarantees set out in the accession strategy if romania's progress so warrants. the dutch delegation of the socialist group in the european parliament reserves the right to take a different position in the spring when the final decision on romania's accession is taken, for example if it appears that the new romanian government is not fulfilling the commitments it has made. this could mean that the link between the accession of romania and bulgaria is being loosened.
president, the mugabe regime is continuing its strategy of political equalisation. for example, in the last 18 months, the zimbabwean authorities have forced the closure of two critical newspapers. in addition, mugabe's supporters in the opposition movement for democratic change have made life as hard as possible. the law on non-governmental organisations, adopted in harare just a week ago, shows that the mugabe regime is undoubtedly increasing pressure on independent organisations in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections in march 2005. they are no longer allowed to receive foreign financial support. any zimbabwean civil or human rights organisation with even one foreign employee is now considered foreign. foreign ngos cannot be registered under the new law and will therefore be banned in the near future. the purpose of this new legislation is clear. many zimbabwean civil and human rights organisations rely on foreign donors. the zimbabwean government is clearly trying to silence them. the ngos concerned are reportedly unwilling to accept this attempt at state muzzling. that's an extraordinarily courageous attitude. the council and the commission have a fine task to perform in assisting them in this by their advice and action.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the zimbabweans are a strong people and zimbabwe is a strong country. after independence, it was also a country with economic opportunities. it is sad to note that at present some 60% of the people there are in economic crisis and often live below the poverty line. of course, that tells you something about how that country has been run and what has gone wrong gradually. the sad thing is that the zanu party and mugabe, especially the immediate circle around mugabe, are the ones who are doing the talking. there are many in the zanu party who are of course very much aware of the fact that we need others, that we need a different economic development to survive. we know that there are many informal contacts and attempts to unravel the case from neighbouring countries. i think that is precisely where the opportunities for us as a european union lie. we must increase the pressure with the support of the african union, nepad, mbeki and all those other contacts, because it is only through the african route and our cohesion with it as the european union that we have a chance of getting something done. the elections in march have undoubtedly already been largely mismanaged and structured. it's going to be very difficult to make them fair and open. there's little point in observing. yet it is in that democratic process and in civil society that the power lies. that force is still strong in zimbabwe, still non-violent and still focused on peace and democratic solutions. i hope that with the smart sanctions, with the path we are taking as the european union, in conjunction with those other countries, we will do our utmost to take that democratic step there. the other way, bloodshed, is a hopeless one. i really hope that we will be able to use all our diplomatic means to increase the pressure so that there are people around mugabe who will drop the dominoes. it must be done there, then the democratic route has a chance of success. i hope that we here on the european side will also make the maximum use of all the resources at our disposal.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, as a legacy of the colony of southern rhodesia, the agricultural land in zimbabwe is largely owned by a small group of farmers of european origin. my group supports the wish of the black majority of the population to give back a large part of the land to that black majority. that desire is sadly being seriously abused by robert mugabe, the man once popular as the leader of the successful liberation struggle against the colonial occupiers and the racist minority government of ian smith. it was only when voters lost confidence in him that the long-promised land reform became a priority for him. the expropriation of large farms is now primarily a means for mugabe to finally reward his old crony of freedom fighters after decades of delay. moreover, it is part of a campaign to eliminate political opponents through suspicion, intimidation and coercion. if europe is isolating this regime, it must not be because of old colonial interests and old colonial arrogance, but because we want to help every country in the world to promote human rights and democracy. that's the whole point.
mr president, since colonial times the third world countries have supplied the rich countries with cheap products from agriculture, mining and small craft industries. they depend on the rich countries of the north for the import of expensive products based on new industrial technology. this makes these countries extremely dependent on imports and exports and results in a trade balance which is very unfavourable to them. this division of the third world, as in the days when european countries exercised their power by military force, still leads to permanent poverty and backwardness. it is therefore quite understandable that the governments in those countries thought that any new industry was to their advantage, particularly large-scale industry in the field of metals and chemicals. in the past, these countries were not attractive for this type of industry, not only because the workers were not yet sufficiently skilled, but mainly because the customers were mainly in richer parts of the world and the transport of a finished product was expensive. the only industry that emerged was either from state-owned enterprises or served only the local market and tourists. the need for stronger industry in those countries was and is being exploited by industrial firms from the rich north, because these firms do want expansion, but as a market the southern countries are still not very important as long as the purchasing power is low. however, investment in the south is attractive to them if wages are low and especially if environmental and safety requirements are below par or very poorly controlled. this makes possible disasters in which many people become terminally ill or lose their lives. this danger threatens not only the workers in these companies but also the people living in the surrounding area. when disasters happen, companies don't want to bear the cost. the gas explosion in bhopal 20 years ago and the way it was dealt with are all connected with this. union carbide, dow chemical and the indian government are not willing to pay enough for the more than 20,000 deaths, the more than 100,000 lifelong injuries and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. that must be resolved, and such a disaster must never happen again. let us in europe take our responsibility, if necessary pay our share and above all ensure that european companies do not repeat this kind of mistake.
