(pl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am deeply honoured that it should have fallen to me to utter the first words in polish in this house. polish is the language of over 40 million europeans. before our eyes, ladies and gentlemen, the division of europe is coming to an end, a division whose sources date back to the second world war. in these days of joy and emotion, it is fitting, therefore, to remember all those to whom the new europe is indebted for its reunification. i would like to pay tribute to the millions of my countrymen, soldiers and civilians, who were victims of the second world war. unfortunately, their blood, spilled on the fields of battle, only secured peace and prosperity for one part of europe. i would like to pay tribute to all those in poland and central europe who, in the stalinist era, sustained the flame of freedom on the other side of the iron curtain. their inspiration was varied: from democratic socialism through liberalism to christian-democracy and conservatism. today we must also pay homage to the political prisoners and victims of the stalinist terror, although many of them did not live to see a united europe. as a pole, i take particular pride in pointing out to the house that today's celebrations would not be taking place were it not for the spiritual inspiration of our great fellow countryman, his holiness john paul ii. he inspired solidarity, the powerful social movement that led to the fall of communism. president lech walesa, the leader of this movement became a symbol of the struggle for democracy and human rights for the world. he is our guest today in this chamber. i also want to recall with pride that the leaders of my party, law and justice, as well as many of its members, were active participants in the movement for political independence that was solidarity. at this time i would also like to express gratitude to two great leaders of the western world whose steadfast attitude in the eighties helped break the fetters that bound the nations of eastern and central europe. i would like to thank prime minister margaret thatcher and president ronald reagan. the great task now before us is to make sure that the fruits of the reunification of the continent are fairly divided among all the nations of the new europe. our union for europe of the nations group will do everything to ensure that the new europe gives new meaning to the word solidarity. (applause from the right)
(pl) and mr president, yesterday, when the flags of the new member states of the european union were raised here in strasbourg, poland was celebrating the anniversary of the adoption of the first written constitution in europe, and the second in the world, namely the polish constitution of 1791. its purpose was to make poland a fair and efficient country. the constitutional treaty of the european union is supposed to be the crowning achievement of the great project of european integration, for which we in poland waited almost 50 years. however, the draft submitted by the european convention does not bode well either for the future of the european union as a whole or for poland and other member states of the european union. our community needs a different constitution, a constitution that does not lead to excessive centralisation and regulation. if we want to develop quickly, if we want to compete successfully in the globalising economy, the union must not regulate every area of the economy. all regulation has a negative impact on competitiveness and hinders development. also, the new constitution must not take precedence over the constitutions of the member states of the european union. this would amount to surrendering national sovereignty. the union, as it is to be defined by the constitutional treaty, must be based on the principle of solidarity, a principle underpinning our community and upon which, over many years, a new post-war order was built in western europe. the concept of solidarity has a special significance in my country, poland. it was in the name of solidarity that we poles, fought for freedom. europe cannot cut itself off from its christian roots. if it does so, it will be in danger of dying a lingering death. this would mean the death of our civilization, which would have proved incapable of coping with a number of threats that have recently appeared in the world. i have referred to a constitution enabling europe to become a strong, competitive partner in international relations based on fundamental principles. the european constitution should unite the peoples and nations of the european union. the european union should remain a strong association of nation states bound together by solidarity. the strength and legitimacy of the union is derived from the mandate and will to cooperate of sovereign countries.
(pl) and mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like poland's voice to be heard in this parliamentary debate on the subject of the treaty creating a constitution for europe. after all, on 3 may 1791 poland became the first country in europe to adopt a democratic constitution. yesterday we celebrated the 213th anniversary of this great event. the may constitution expressed the democratic and sovereign aspirations of the people. it is, however, firmly based on christian values, which united the states and peoples of central and eastern europe, and which became enshrined in the may constitution. unfortunately, the wording of the current draft constitution of the european union does not refer at all to the christian roots that are an essential value of the foundations of europe. further it raises concerns about the preservation of the sovereignty of member states. within the framework of the european union, the road to integration and unity through such a constitution would be even longer and more difficult. integration and unity cannot be achieved through the creation of a new centralised state. the countries of the former communist bloc have only recently freed themselves from the fetters of a centralised state with a communist ideology. they wouldn't like to find themselves in some sort of new centralized organization all over again. within the framework of the current configuration of europe, member states and nations must have a guarantee for the preservation of their sovereignty. they also need a sense of their cultural identity, community of faith and tradition. polish solidarity would not have existed without a polish pope whose own faith and example shows how to build a new europe through a civilisation based on love. this new order would make it possible to overcome the difficulties, conflicts, and confusion of languages that led to dissent amongst the builders of the biblical tower of babel and their eventual dispersal. the key principles of the civilization based on love have been proclaimed by christianity from time immemorial. they have been advocated in a particularly charismatic manner by pope john paul ii. it was thanks to these principles that it proved possible first to break the fetters of communist totalitarianism, starting in poland. thanks to them too, it was subsequently possible to establish a new democratic system in europe. they will also make it possible now to overcome fear, prejudice, and hatred. they will make it possible for people to understand each other and build an economic and political democracy in a europe that will be safe from the dangers of world economic globalism. europe and the peoples that make it up have their own democratic tradition. they will find the strength to reinforce and disseminate it, as well as to defend it, should the need arise. may god help the european parliament in the building of such unity. in old polish, i wish it godspeed. i must apologise for making such a long speech, but this is my last appearance in this house, as i will not be a candidate in the european elections.
(pl) mr president, every country and every international organisation needs a constitution. a constitution defines the structure of the organisation or country and the rights of its citizens. when the european union was smaller it was able to operate on the basis of successively amended treaties. by contrast, a union made up of 25 states, and in the future of 27 or more, must have a clear institutional system and a distinct division of powers. it must function efficiently, and, above all, it must be closer to the citizen. for this reason the decision taken at laeken to convene a european convention to draft a constitution was right and necessary. i took part in the proceedings of the convention and can vouch for the high quality of the work it accomplished. i appreciate the excellent quality of the work undertaken by the european parliament and successive presidencies, and must thank them for it. the draft constitution proposed by the european council has certainly proved an excellent basis for further discussion. in certain places, however, it gives rise to doubts, emotions and debate. in order to answer the question as to how good the constitution has to be, we must reflect on the kind of constitution europe wants. first: europe and its people want a constitution ensuring security and freedom from the use of force and terrorism. this is the type of europe that is wanted. it is therefore important to consider whether a paragraph regarding the sources of terrorism should be introduced into the constitution. should the anti-terrorism coordinator not be linked to the commission and his powers clearly defined? we want a just europe that cares for the individual. this is why we should develop the third part of the constitution further. as it stands, it pays far too little attention to social policy. we want a well-managed europe. consequently, there has to be a balance between the powers of the member states and those of the union. an institutional balance is required. this is why the powers of the european parliament in the area of the union's finances and budget must not be restricted. after all, parliament is the only democratically elected body in the union. we want a europe that does not discriminate against anyone, a europe capable of building an open society. how then could it have been possible not to provide for a ban on discrimination on the grounds of disability, when drafting the anti-discrimination clause? it should be recalled that there the european union has 50 million citizens with disabilities. above all, however, we are aiming at a democratic and united union, a union in which all states and citizens are equal. consequently, the decision-making process in the council of the european union should be based on a spirit of compromise that takes into account the interests of all states, large and small. an accommodation is called for. all the union's power must not be vested in just a small number of its member states. the willingness to accept this compromise will be a measure and determinant of european democracy. the constitution is almost ready and will have to serve future generations. taking into account also that the people have endorsed it by means of a referendum or in parliament, it will be only right that, in the spirit of compromise, we adopt it quickly. this will make for deeper integration.
(pl) and mr president, it is a great honour and privilege for me to be one of the first polish members to address the house after the union's enlargement. this is a historic occasion, and i am particularly pleased to be speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, the largest group in the european parliament, and a group that has made a major contribution to the enlargement of europe. the enlarged european union is generating great hopes, not only among the old member states, but also among the new countries joining the european union. this is particularly true in the case of my own country, poland. the polish people have painful experience of the dark era of communism and nationalism. they know how much hard work had to be done in order to join the european union. we had to make up for the several decades during which we had fallen behind because we were on the other side. today we are discussing the future of europe. we hope to endorse and adopt the european constitution. this is needed in order for us to be able to manage europe efficiently and for us to take decisions efficiently. for this step to have real significance, it must be adopted through compromise, with the consent of all the nations making up the european union. it is also essential to remember our roots, the basis on which european civilisation was built. a europe that forgets its roots cannot have a future. some of the views expressed in the course of this debate have caused concern. there seems to be an attempt to create a two-speed europe and to forge deeper alliances within the framework of the european union. we cannot go along with this. there has been an attempt to establish false standards of what being european means. these are not good omens. they reinforce the political strength of the euro-sceptics which is most certainly not our intention. the european venture is not yet complete. new states are waiting at our doors. soon bulgaria and romania will join. it is also important to keep in mind ukraine and our neighbours in the balkans. much remains to be done. i hope wise decisions will be taken to strengthen europe as a whole and each nation individually. i am sure we all aspire to a europe of peace, in which the differences between societies and economies are minimal. we long for a europe in which richer countries will help poorer countries. we hope that europe will stand up to threats such as terrorism. we would like europe to be a strong and efficiently managed international organisation. finally, we want europe to continue to honour christian values, human dignity, tradition, and morality.
(pl) and mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europeans, the long-awaited hour is here. poland has become a member state of the european union, along with another nine countries and peoples. integration into europe has been the hope and ambition of many nations, including poland. the polish people played a significant role in this endeavour. after all, poland initiated the process of structural transformation in our part of europe, and it was the polish government that was the first to propose enlarging the european union to include the countries of central and eastern europe. we therefore have good reasons for pride and satisfaction. the date of 1 may 2004 will become a symbol of the end of the yalta order in europe. this order artificially divided our continent, placing some in a privileged position, while sentencing others to a sluggish pace of economic development. let's hope it is gone forever. today, with the sense of a job well done, we should look forward in hope to the future of europe. thanks are due to all those who strove towards integration, both in the countries of the fifteen and in the candidate countries. they are to be commended on their unshakeable determination and on helping to bring about integration through concrete facts and actions. the next step on this road will be the adoption of the constitutional treaty. it is our expectation and hope that this will occur during the current irish presidency. in this period of globalisation and terrorism, it is necessary to reinforce our european solidarity, cooperation, unity, and security. in order for work on this important document to be completed successfully, it is vital for all the member states to be willing to compromise. i agree with commissioner verheugen. he is a great friend of poland and of its people. the commissioner stated that european integration called for courage, courage of thought and the courage to compromise. courage is also required when considering the future of the european union, because the process of enlargement will not stop at this stage. it will continue until the time our common neighbors in the east and south of europe join our great strong family in their turn. we should maintain the best possible relations with them, endeavouring to ensure they are properly prepared for the process of integration at the appropriate time. i cannot predict whether the polish electorate will decide whether i should continue to sit in this house. allow me, therefore, to finish by thanking president pat cox and the european parliament for enabling me to represent poland in the european arena over the last year. i'm sure i speak for the other observers too. it has been a great privilege to witness events that will go down in history and an honour to have been actively involved in shaping them. i am aware of the significance of this moment for the history of europe. confident of our shared courage and determination to build a better world i face the future with confidence and hope.
(pl) mr president, yesterday, 3 may, when the european union was celebrating its enlargement, the people of poland were honouring the most blessed virgin mary as queen of poland. she is also queen of europe and of the whole world. we are bound to respond appropriately to this special protection granted to us. please accept this gift from the people of poland. it is our most precious treasure, the cross of christ. may this cross be a source of strength for us. only by seeking inspiration in the cross can europe rise above chaos and moral degradation. mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall now speak to you as pat cox, the father of a catholic family. like the holy father, you have been awarded the charlemagne prize. i'm sure you are familiar with the teachings of john paul ii and aware of his concern for the spiritual unity of a christian europe. we are today seeking a way to find peace and a way to combat terrorism. we long for justice and progress. the holy father himself, europe's first citizen, the champion of the true union of europe, is constantly reminding us that europe needs god. it needs god's laws and god's constitution. only then shall we overcome all manner of afflictions, injustices, and terrorism. we cannot hope to overcome terrorism as long as we condone those dreadful acts of terrorism committed secretly every day. i refer to the killing of the most innocent of victims, namely children conceived in their mothers' wombs. if europe rejects god's laws, it will also reject the rights of nations and the rights of families. it will reject human rights, including the most important of them all, the right to life. mr. president, i am confident you will make arrangements for this cross to be hung in a place of honor in this parliament. the cross stands for love triumphant. a cross must be hung in strasbourg, and another in brussels. do not allow yourself to be deterred, mr. president! you must have the courage of your convictions!
(pl) and madam president, on the first of may a new stage in the unification of old europe was completed. euro-enthusiasts cried "europe, here we are!" surely this cannot mean poland was not previously part of europe? after all, even when through no will of its own, poland was part of the system of totalitarian coercion, it was able to generate certain forces within itself. these forces triggered the unification of a divided germany, and went on to build bridges across the entire continent. thus was political unification achieved. the only pity is that the economic burden of this process is again being borne by the countries that were once behind the iron curtain. for europe to be cohesive, strong, and acceptable to all its citizens, it must accept new values along with new member states. i refer to those values europe is tending to move away from. the equality of citizens, the equality of nations, and a balanced economic development cannot remain mere slogans in the context of a world market that is very rapidly becoming globalized. united, we are stronger and wiser. let us rather build ourselves a single one-speed europe and ensure balanced and stable development. internally, europe must be modern, but above all it must be competitive in external markets. let us build a europe that will generate economic growth and reduce the areas affected by poverty. contemporary europe amounts to a collection of rules, restrictions and regulations. these are often harmful to weaker countries that have just made it into the organization. there have also been numerous damaging corruption scandals. what is even more regrettable is that europe seems to lack the determination to resolve them. this is a kind of disease. if it's not treated in time, it will result in far more serious diseases. now everything depends on us. it is up to us to determine whether the enlarged europe will remain paralysed. alternatively, we could work together to take advantage of our inherent attributes for rapid, joint development. it would then be possible to offer even more hope of greatness to the citizens of europe.
(pl) and madam president, the polish parliament has stipulated that the republic of poland's accession to the european union should be subject to the fulfilment of four conditions. it is important to recall this today, because in politics there is nothing worse than delusion and ignorance. the conditions were as follows. first, that the christian values that shaped poland and europe, be recognized by the union and included in the preamble to the treaty being drafted. second, that voting in the council of the union be according to the nice system, and not on the basis of a double majority. third, that poland shall not recognise any decisions of the tribunals and courts of the union with respect to possible german claims. those who are advancing such claims should remember that war reparations due to poland have not yet been paid off, and that poland may not be prepared to overlook the fact. an executioner should not be seen as a victim or vice-versa. fourth, that polish companies, like german companies from the former eastern zone, should be able to benefit from state aid. a further basic condition must be added. poland will never give precedence to union law over our constitution. we shall not surrender the sovereignty of our national law. poland overcame occupation by nazi germany and soviet russia. through its fight for independence, poland paved the way to freedom for the peoples of europe. thanks to its faith in god and thanks ... (the president cut off the speaker)... values of the alliance we shall never surrender, in the meantime, the union to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. (pl) and madam president, to paraphrase words first uttered 500 years ago now spirits have awakened, and life has again become a pleasure. i recall these words today, first, to infuse optimism into those who are reluctant to rejoice in enlargement, and second, in order to draw attention to the need to create a new social order. like a table, this order must have at least three legs. it needs an economic leg and a political leg. it also needs a cultural leg which must be equally strong. without it, no table will stand, not even a round table like the one we sat round in poland in the past. this is the conclusion i bring to integration based on poland's latest experiences. when i refer to culture, i have in mind all areas of human self-realization. i'm thinking of the theatre, school, office; stadiums, an honest market, along with parliament, and the polish parliament in particular. the renaissance, baroque, enlightenment, romanticism, and now postmodernism are all bidding to be involved in the creation of the order i mentioned. many artists, writers, and intellectuals also wish to be involved. they want to bring their creativity to bear on the political creation of a european identity. this will take years to accomplish. it is an exceedingly difficult task, particularly as regards ensuring the security of the culture of a multilingual europe. today we are debating difficulties related to partnership with our neighbours. i can identify a range of aspects of the relationship with our eastern neighbors. there is warm friendship and cold acquisitive greed. there is also mutual fascination and ethnic animosity, which poisons the intelligentsia. i have personal experience of all these, and so do many millions of the citizens of central europe. we know all about destruction and establishing new borders that are an affront to logic, morality, and dignity. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 120 of the rules of procedure)
(pl) and madam president, i would like to thank you. members of this house have been entrusted with a great responsibility. we are responsible for the citizens of the european union, for their prosperity and their welfare. entry into the european union on equal terms is an expression of historical justice. these were the words of the holy father john paul ii, the supreme authority in this world. robert schuman, a great statesman and patriot, shared these views. they inspired the creation of the european coal and steel community and the eec. the aim was to create peace in europe and in the world, as well as prosperity for the people. what, though, is the reality? there exists a bipolar europe: a europe of the rich, and a europe of the poor. a different outlook on the economy is required. we must immediately move away from the worst versions of neoliberal policy and globalisation. the solution is not a free-market economy, but a social market economy in keeping with the social teachings of various religious groupings. it is wrong for a country's population to be divided into a small group of rich citizens and a large group of poor ones. we are opposed to wealth creation at the expense of the poor. we advocate involving the rich in assisting the poor. we must commit to the economic development of all of europe through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation. only then shall we effectively eradicate poverty and unemployment, the plagues of the twentieth century. only then shall we take the economic lead over the usa and asian countries such as china and japan. we should have no reservations about working jointly with russia and ukraine. poland entered the union on demeaning, unequal terms. the polish negotiators are to blame for this. they proclaimed a great success, while the truth is different. production is decreasing. production quotas and production limits are putting us back by 24 years in the production of tobacco, for example. the figure for sheep farming is 35 years. for milk production it is 52 years, and for steel production 34. we shall call those responsible to account in the future and make them take responsibility for their actions. from a country exporting foodstuffs and steel, poland has become an importer. self-defence is calling for renegotiation of the association agreement. the only way to eradicate poverty and unemployment is to exploit the productive capacity of our industry and agriculture to the full. the european union must return to the highest values. it must put the individual, the family, work, and a dignified life first in order not to lead to social revolution. the alter anti-globalists are right. having first dealt with extremism, we must work together to find a way out of this situation. the european union and poland both need self-defense. (the president cut off the speaker)
(pl) and mr president, i would like to thank you. i am delighted to have the honour of taking the floor for the first time during a plenary session of the european parliament now that poland is a member of the european union. being among the best is ennobling. at present, poland has an economic growth rate of 6%. membership of the european community gives us the chance to consolidate this growth and to accelerate development. pursuant to the lisbon strategy, the european union is aiming to become the strongest and most competitive economy in the world by 2010. i believe the union will achieve this aim. nevertheless, economic competitiveness and the laws of the free market are not sufficient to ensure social progress. what is necessary is sustainable development combining economic effectiveness with the principles of social justice and environmental protection. the individual should be the subject of all economic processes, and the markets must serve the people, not vice versa. this approach will ensure all citizens benefit from the results of european integration. it will lead to the creation of a society without barriers or divisions. sustainable development of the countries of the european union also involves the development of its regions and the consolidation of local government. priority must be given to the allocation of funds from the structural funds and the cohesion fund to investments creating new jobs, and to investment in education, science and new technologies. i believe that promoting economic competitiveness while respecting the principles of sustainable development will help to improve quality of life for all europeans. this is, after all, the goal of our common endeavor. we can achieve far more if we work together.
(pl) and mr president, enlargement of the european union finally took place a few days ago. enlargement poses new challenges with respect to how the union should operate and how joint decisions on its future should be taken. speaking as a representative of the union for europe of the nations group, and also as a pole, i would like to make it quite clear that i am a strong advocate of the concept of a europe of the nations. such a europe would draw strength from the diversity and richness of all its regions. it would be a europe of solidarity. there is no doubt that one of the most urgent challenges facing the community is to work on eradicating the economic differences that arose within our continent as a result of the settlements at the yalta conference. these settlements were imposed on poland by force. we therefore now have every moral right to demand substantial support for development. currently, the standard of living in all the polish voivodships falls below 75% of the european union average. some of them barely reach 35% of the union average. the sviatokrzyskie voivodship is one such example. this means the union's policy of aid for poorer regions must be one of the most important issues in the coming years. in the course of the debate on the european union's budget it should become clear whether the old member states are prepared to give priority to the principle of solidarity over and above their immediate local economic interests. i have the honour to address the european parliament today on behalf of the malopolskie and świetokrzyskie district. i am delighted to be instrumental in ensuring that its voice can be heard in this house, where all the nations of europe are represented. the south of poland is famous for being thrifty and hard-working. i am therefore convinced that the people of our region will cope and succeed in the new european union. our success, however, the success of these two areas, will require solidarity from you, the representatives of the richer part of europe. we need help to develop our infrastructure. the south of poland must have better communication links with the rest of europe. we need support for the sound and painless restructuring of our agriculture. finally, we need programmes enabling the young people of the malopolskie and świetokrzyskie voivodships to take full advantage of educational opportunities in the enlarged european union. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to invite you to krakow, one of the most beautiful cities of europe and the capital of our region. its glorious history, architecture, and the remarkable character of its people create a unique atmosphere. millions of foreign visitors come and enjoy it every year.
(pl) and mr president, i would like to thank you. i have the honour of speaking in the european parliament as one of the first polish members and as the first member representing the wielkopolska voivodship. my fellow members and i are setting fundamental goals for ourselves in the european union. our first goal is a sovereign poland. we believe poland's sovereignty will be better secured within the european union than outside it. we want a strong and sovereign poland in a strong europe. our second goal concerns the economy. we are convinced that membership of the european union gives us an opportunity for economic development that was not available to us outside the community. this is why it is important for the european union's economic policy to promote free competition. further, economic policy must be based on solidarity, which is a key principle of the european union. this will give the poorer new member states an opportunity to develop. it is also the reason why we are insisting that the union's budget be maintained at the existing level and not reduced, and it is why we are calling for structural investment in the new member states. i am addressing you as a pole and as a resident of the wielkopolska voivodship. it was in this area, in gniezno, that emperor otto iii and cardinal robert, representing pope sylvester ii, met with the ruler of poland, boleslaw the brave, in the year 1000. at the turn of the tenth century they discussed the affairs of europe in this very area near the grave of st wojciech. inspired by them we believe that today a happy and peaceful europe can also only be built in the name of god and christian tradition. the people of greater poland, where i live, have always been renowned for their great enterprise and thrift. the citizens of poznan, kalisz, leszno, pila, konin, gniezno, wrzesnia, gostyn, koscian, rawicz, ostrow, kolo, and many other greater poland cities, towns, and villages will do everything in their power to ensure that poland achieves success. we aspire to success for ourselves as well as for the extremely large number of young people in poland. my country has recently recorded the greatest increase in student numbers in europe. their number has grown six-fold in the last few years. it is for the sake of these young poles that we are striving for a strong poland in a strong europe.
(pl) and mr president, enlargement of the european union from 15 to 25 member states is resulting in inevitable changes to its economic, administrative, and social structure. the average gross national product per capita is lower. unemployment has risen, and society is becoming more divided. the number of poorer persons has increased significantly. there is a greater number of less developed regions, and these regions require support from the union's budget. at the same time, however, there have been some very positive developments. our common market has grown. internal competitiveness has increased, which will strengthen our external competitiveness. structural and economic changes in the ten new member states are opening up great opportunities for development. a so-called baby-boom generation is starting productive adult life in poland. for the most part, these young people are well-educated citizens, prepared for the challenges of a modern economy. a younger generation of europeans, open to innovation and progress, is our greatest asset. social europe imposes restrictions on economic europe. it reduces the competitiveness of the economy. this does not mean, however, that we must dispense with europe's social heritage, which is so important for our citizens. it need not hamper the search for new tools for development. recently i was asked what associations the european union has for me, what buildings, monuments, historical events, achievements, it brought to mind. i answered that europe does indeed have great buildings, magnificent monuments, and beautiful chapters of history. i said that europe has wonderful traditions and achievements, but that for me europe is associated with the values it developed and offers to the world. these values are democracy, human rights, and security for the individual, including economic and social security. they have to be the fundamental prerequisites and guidelines for the philosophy and development of the european union.
(pl) and mr. president, until recently i was an observer in this house. today i am a fully-fledged member of the european parliament. i have noticed that words like solidarity, assistance, and cooperation are often bandied about in the chamber. these words do have real meaning. it sometimes happens, however, that a wonderful idea loses out against ruthless interests. work on reform of the common agricultural policy is an example of this. the fifteen old member states used article 23 of the treaty of accession concluded between poland and the european union to further their own interests. the conditions applicable to polish agriculture established in copenhagen in december 2002 were changed to our disadvantage. poland is a country of great opportunities. with some support, it could develop impressively and benefit the whole european union. in over a thousand years of its history, our nation has demonstrated that it is not afraid of difficult challenges. it has shown itself capable of great deeds for the common good. it is no exaggeration to state that a poland with a vibrant economy and enriched by the spirit of its citizens will be an asset to the european union. i am convinced we shall not be a burden on europe. we shall prove a tower of strength for it. poland has never let europe down, and it never will. i trust europe will not let poland down either.
(pl) and mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i first want to say how grateful i am to president pat cox for inviting president lech walesa to yesterday's flag-raising ceremony at the flagpoles in my home town of gdansk. mr. walesa symbolizes the changes leading to political freedom in europe. the current enlargement of the european union means that 450 million citizens now find themselves in an area of incomparably greater freedom, security, stability, and progress. the union's offer of the opportunity of membership to the former communist countries induced the latter to accomplish the huge task of reform in order to meet higher standards such as the copenhagen standards. this demonstrates that the clear offer of such an opportunity can influence the entire domestic and foreign policy of a country seeking to join the community. it therefore constitutes one of the most effective instruments at the union's disposal, and can result in increasing the range of freedoms available to its citizens and their security. there is, however, a risk that following the current enlargement, the european union may concentrate solely or mainly on strengthening the integration process instead of exerting an effective influence on its neighbours. this shouldn't happen. the new member states, including poland, could be very helpful in this regard. i therefore wish to emphasise the urgency of introducing a bold policy with regard to areas to the south and east of the european union. this includes turkey. despite the many current political, cultural, and economic concerns, we should keep membership open to all those willing to fulfill the criteria for joining the european union. finally, i would like to highlight that the policy of increasing freedom and security we are discussing here today and about which commissioner vitorino spoke, is provided for by the provisions of the draft constitutional treaty. i have in mind article 58, concerning the european union and its immediate vicinity, as well as the provisions on the crucial pillars respecting freedom and security. i would therefore like to state that in my opinion, this draft should be implemented as quickly as possible.
(pl) and mr president, the right to freedom of movement, that is to say, the right to choose one's place of residence, both in the professional and in the private sense, is one of the many important fundamental freedoms and rights enjoyed by the citizens of the union from the beginning of its existence. this right, this freedom, is enshrined in the treaties. it is also contained in the charter of fundamental rights, and has its own very practical dimensions. i refer to the abolition of internal border controls and to the elimination of all administrative barriers to settling and taking up work anywhere in the territory of the entire union. from the first of may, citizens of the new member states may travel throughout the union without passports. they have been quick to exercise this right, and have enjoyed doing so from the very first day. this has given them a real feeling of belonging to the community, even if they still have to produce identity cards at the borders. the citizens of the new member states of the union understand that a partial restriction on their rights to free movement is justified, until their governments are ready for full integration into the schengen information system. the same cannot be said for the restrictions introduced by several governments concerning access to labour markets. there is no rational justification for these decisions. they are based entirely on exaggerated fears or cold political calculations with the next elections to national parliaments in mind. there is no empirical evidence that an immense wave of citizens from the new countries will flood into the old member states of the european union in search of work. studies by independent research centres presented by commissioner wallström, for example, suggest quite the opposite. over the next five years, economic migration from the new countries of the union to the old should not exceed 1% of the population of the ten new members. the experience of previous enlargements suggests enlargement caused a reduction in the number of economic migrants, rather than an increase. this is what will happen this time. the citizens of the new member states want to find work in their own countries, and they believe that membership of the union will help them to do so. i therefore take this opportunity to appeal for restrictions on access to labour markets to be lifted as quickly as possible. this would certainly not be a disaster for the old countries. furthermore, the new members of the union would see it as a tangible sign that they too may enjoy the full rights and freedoms available to the citizens of the entire european union.
(pl) mr president, as the newly elected vice-president of the union for europe of the nations group, i have the honour of presenting our position. what we are debating today is the natural legal consequence of the expansion of the european union. each of the new countries will have its own commissioner in a new commission for a new europe. this is an outward sign that all member states are dealt with fairly in the treaties on which the union is based. we also advocate that each country should continue to have its own commissioner on the european commission in the future. we feel this is a corollary of the principle of equality and respect for each and every country of the european union, including the smallest. i wish the new commissioners well in their work, and hope it will be fruitful for all the citizens of the european union and for all the countries of europe. i should now like to make two specific appeals. first, i call on the new commissioners representing the ten countries joining the european union to devote special attention to ensuring european solidarity has real meaning. through no fault of their own, these new countries lag behind the countries of the old european union in terms of economic development. i must reiterate that this is through no fault of their own. i hope that under the leadership of romano prodi, the commission, together with the new commissioners, will do everything possible to bridge this gap in economic development between the countries of old and new europe as soon as possible. it is in the interest of both old and new member states of the european union to do away with this divide. my second appeal is as follows. we believe the european union must be based on justice and respect for everyone of its members. we hope the new expanded european commission will ensure all countries receive equal treatment. we cannot allow some to be more equal than others in the new europe. we cannot allow situations to arise where weaker countries are unable to make progress, while politically stronger countries are able to evade even the most stringent of criteria. we hope that the european commission will safeguard this equality to ensure every citizen of every country in the european union feels he or she is being treated fairly, regardless of the size of the particular country's population. finally, on behalf of the polish uen delegation, i would like to state that we shall support the composition of the entire commission, and will be voting for it. despite the reservations on the polish nominee we expressed in our national parliament, we shall endorse this commission today. we believe we must place our trust in it and wish it all the best in this difficult work on behalf of all the nations of europe and of europe itself.
(pl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, it is time to wake up to the fact that communism is dead, and that the inhuman version of capitalism is also doomed. you speak fine words to the people, but your deeds are directed against them. you act to their disadvantage. you say you are on the side of the poor, but in your actions you help liberals and the globalists at the expense of the poor. most members of this house are liberals with social-democratic roots. you are aware of the poverty, corruption, and immorality that are tearing europe apart, yet you turn a blind eye to the poverty affecting hundreds of millions of people in the european union. it is time to introduce a european social model. you must know that our countries have adopted the universal declaration of human rights and the convention on the rights of the child. these are the most important of all international instruments. nonetheless, citizens' rights and children's rights are being infringed in our countries. allow me to remind you of part of article 25 of the universal declaration of human rights: "everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care"... are these to remain empty words? are we not bound to implement them? it is high time the european union introduced a social market economy in accordance with the social teachings of various religious groupings. this would be neither communism nor capitalism. rather, it would be an entirely new approach to the socio-economic development of the european union. we must work together to find a way out of this difficult socio-economic situation for the well-being of the citizens of the european union. i wish all the citizens of the european union wisdom and perseverance in the struggle for a dignified life for the working people.
(pl) mr president, i would like to thank you for your i would like to enquire how commissioners perceive their constitutionally delicate position. it should be borne in mind that on the one hand, they act as a type of government for the european union. on the other hand, each member state is entitled to propose a commissioner. this means that a commissioner is simultaneously a representative of his or her country. at any given time, it is difficult to reconcile the interests of the whole with the interests of one's country. i therefore believe commissioners must be guided by the basic principles of the european union. the principle of solidarity is the most important of these. i call on the commissioners to make a statement in this regard. i also wanted to take this opportunity to thank the president for attending the ceremonies that took place in poland on may 3rd, poland's national holiday. i'm sure i'm speaking on behalf of my fellow members too. we are most grateful to mr. cox for his participation in the solemn ceremony connected with the building of the church of the divine providence, which is the votive offering of the polish people in thanksgiving for regaining their independence. thank you very much.
commissioner prodi, you said that euroscepticism has been defeated and is a lost cause. well, you are in for a surprise! euroscepticism is alive and growing. euroscepticism does not concern europe as such, but the european union. europe is a continent composed of states that are the property of their nations. such a europe will survive. the traditional europe of christian rules will survive, but if the european union continues to develop in the direction of a single federal state, it will disintegrate.
president of the commission. the commission's reputation will improve with five members who will become ministers for economic affairs or foreign ministers in their countries. we are proud that the commission has been drawn to the highest offices by the new governments of some countries. we hope and i hope that among the new commissioners who have come here there will be future prime ministers or future foreign ministers in their countries. this is the commission's role: the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. as regards the other comment you made, the honourable member, on the problem of relations with the member states, on the effectiveness of our action, i would like to stress just one thing: the consistency of the action and programmes we have had over the past five years. the council has not always been able to run at the same speed, but the commission has never deviated from its course. i would remind you that if we had been able to impose, or at least be followed in our proposals, the lisbon strategy would have given our european union very different results. i would also like to take a moment to reply to mrs kinnock. i hope that in the next legislative act - and this is a speech i am making to you - we will have a specific directorate for africa in the development directorate, because in the development field africa must be a particular obligation for us. africa is on our shoulders. on other continents there are shared responsibilities, complex situations: africa is our specific task.
(pl) mr president, i would like to thank you for your i too would like to thank the outgoing prodi commission. i would also like to welcome and congratulate the incoming commission. i think the incoming commission will have to begin by tackling three main issues. first, it must repair relations with other european organisations and reinforce cooperation. i give you the example of the council of europe, an organisation that is especially close to me. it has its headquarters nearby and is where the idea of creating an agency for migration arose. the purpose of the latter is to find a solution to one of the most pressing concerns for this continent. second, it must also be remembered that 22 countries remain outside the european union. europe has 800 million inhabitants. of these, only 450 million are citizens of the union. this is why it's important to create an agency for external relations. further, it should be recalled that the union has almost 4 000 kilometres of external borders. 1 150 kilometres of these are in my country, poland. my final comment is addressed directly to the president. i would like to ask him how he envisions the future development of the relationship between the three main integrated groupings in the world. i refer to the union, nafta, which is expanding to all of latin america, and asean and apec, the asian groupings
president of the commission. we have discussed the kaliningrad issue many times. the last meeting with russia was a very interesting debate because, clearly, all the problems that you, the honourable member, are well aware of were on the table: the movement of labour, the movement of goods; but above all, we have made a proposal to work together for the economic and cultural development of the city of kaliningrad, so that it really becomes a point of reference for russia and the neighbouring countries. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the answer to your question, mr president, is therefore in the affirmative: yes, the cultural chapter is also among those proposals. i hope that the atmosphere of cooperation that prevailed at our last meeting with russia will continue to exist when, in a few days, in a few weeks, we meet bilaterally with that country again in moscow. i think that we are beginning to create a climate in which proximity is not just a matter of dealing with border guards or legal problems or with passing permits, but with active cooperation between us, including celebrations of specific personalities, which will have to be decided in the context of this genuine joint cooperation.
(pl) and mr president, i would like to thank you. 25 years ago i was working here illegally, doing manual labour. and you were a second-class citizen. now i am here as a member of the european parliament. i represent a country that has joined europe. nonetheless, many of my fellow countrymen and women still feel like second-class citizens within the union. this is because they cannot legally take up work in it. i would like to ask the commission what it plans to do to shorten the periods in which restrictions on taking up work apply. this would enable the citizens of my region of europe to become first-class citizens. i would also like to say that it would be most unfortunate for the union to distance itself from ukraine. ukraine is a part of europe. it shares our cultural heritage. if you travel to lvov or chernovtsy, you will feel as if you were in vienna, budapest or bratislava. i would like to make this appeal: let us not turn our backs on ukraine!
(alde). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. you know what country i'm from. from a country that shared all the tragedies of the 20th century. poland is also the country where the revolt against the totalitarian system was born, the revolt that allowed europe to unite, and which today allows this parliament to be the institution of a united europe. i come from central europe, the region where the fate of poland was the fate of all other nations. we were insecure from day to day of our independence and freedom. and we have achieved that we are independent and free countries. that is what i am here to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament. you know, ladies and gentlemen, who i am and what my path has been. i just want to say one thing, having friends in this room on all sides of this room, in all political families: that one of the great moments of happiness of europe was that we were not alone in our fight for freedom; that in our fight for freedom we had on our side all the people who thought with their hearts and minds that europe is a country, a land of freedom. martin luther king said there is no politics without a dream to begin with. i come, ladies and gentlemen, with a dream of europe, a europe of solidarity. we're the ones who put that word in the political dictionary. the dream of a europe of solidarity and justice. and this parliament is the institution of that europe. i want to say, ladies and gentlemen, after having said where i come from, who i am, i want to say who i want to be by running for the office of president of the european parliament. i would like to serve a europe that is coming together, and to serve on behalf of a europe that has been alienated from it for half a century against its will. and in the name of this europe, which created one of the greatest works of the 20th century, it created the european union. and i would like this parliament, in which there are euro-enthusiasts, in which there are eurosceptics and in which there are euro-realists - as in the societies of europe as a whole - to be a place of debate, of strategic debate on the future of europe; to play a political role and to be able to bring together political families with different agendas, which in elections have been conflicting against each other, so that these families, in this room, come together to create a united europe. i want parliament to be a place of strategic debate. i want it to be a community of states, of nations and of citizens, just as the union as a whole is, because the peoples are the wealth of the european union. if we can learn to live together, we'll have done our part. and finally, i want to be president of a great and wonderful institution, one of the world's largest democracies, the european union. i am pleased to see that the european parliament has been able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his excellent report. this will be a vote for europe! (cheers and applause)
mr. president, prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have a message for you. the irish presidency will go down in history mainly because of the greatest enlargement of european structures in history. the european union is only now becoming europe. this enlargement is formal, political, but it does not concern many issues - for example, the labour market. here, unfortunately, the union is still divided into 'europe a' and 'europe b'. the transitional periods for the citizens of the new union in the area of the labour market are proof that europe is still divided. it's like in the british writer george orwell's book "the animal farm": they're equal and more equal. the european union is a disgrace, and that needs to change as soon as possible. let's end the divisions in europe! one comment on the irish prime minister who spoke of old and new europe. what new europe are you talking about to the peoples of central and eastern europe, who are over 1,000 years old? i suggest the prime minister speak of a new union that is also old europe. president prodi spoke of the commission's greater powers in economic matters. i hope that this does not mean that we have the power to raise taxes in the member states, for example in the new member states. such a union will not be accepted by the citizens! and finally, i'd like to thank the prime minister of ireland for one thing. for having always kept in mind during his six-month presidency that the union is and must remain a europe of the peoples.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen! on 4 may, the european parliament, acting in consultation, expressed its criticism of a draft agreement between the united states and the european community which would require european airlines to pass on certain passenger data to the us, including for example bank account numbers. this data is to be sent to the u.s. department of homeland security's bureau of customs and border protection. the parliament considered that the agreement was incompatible with european union law and, in particular, infringed the level of guarantees of protection of personal data laid down in directive no 46 of 1995. in view of this, parliament asked the european court of justice for an opinion on the matter. however, ignoring these doubts and taking advantage of the break in parliament's work caused by the elections for a new term, the council finalised the agreement. and so i have a question: does the irish presidency think that the reduction in the level of protection of personal data of european union citizens agreed in this agreement should be implemented, despite the fundamental doubts of parliament? isn't that a restriction of civil liberties? has the presidency seen the problem and tried to take a stand on this important issue? and - in conclusion - i would like to change the tone of this statement a little and i would like to congratulate the presidency on the completion of the negotiations on the constitutional treaty. the compromise is a success for the presidency, a personal success for you, mr prime minister, and a success for all of us, because the constitution is for europe, and we all need it. the irish presidency has been able to persuade the governments of 25 countries to accept the constitution. the european union's 450 million citizens must now be convinced of the constitution. we all have to do this for the constitution to come into force on november 1, 2009.
mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen of the house! today we are wrapping up the six-month term of the irish presidency. it was undoubtedly a very successful period for the european union. first of all, as many of my predecessors have already said, the biggest enlargement in the history of the union has taken place, not only with great pomp and ceremony at the dublin ceremony on 1 may, but also with equal grace and efficiency when, in june, the 25 european leaders agreed on the candidate for the new president of the european commission. this is a success for which i would like to congratulate the irish presidency warmly. i would also like to express my appreciation for the response of the presidency to the tragic attacks in madrid on 11 march. i am convinced that the measures proposed and taken to prevent further acts of terrorism on our continent will be effective. it will be ireland's clear and significant contribution to building a secure europe. against this background of indisputable successes of the irish presidency, the compromise on the draft constitutional treaty raises some doubts. there is no doubt that this compromise would not have been possible had it not been for the tenacity and efficiency of the irish leaders at the brussels summit. but the question is: will this compromise, this june's success, not prove counterproductive in the future when the draft constitution for europe is ratified, especially by referendum? my concerns are linked to observations made at numerous meetings during the last european parliament election campaign. there are many, many europeans for whom the lack of reference to the judeo-christian tradition in the preamble to the constitution will be a serious obstacle to voting for its ratification. they are not against a united europe, they are not against further integration of the european union, but they are afraid that this ambitious project is being built on a weakened foundation, from which the obvious fact of the importance of the judeo-christian tradition for what modern europe is and wants to be has been removed.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the successive presidencies must be characterised by continuity, and i would like to refer to the irish presidency, which is a historic presidency, because it was during this period that the european union was enlarged by 10 new member states. this is a historic event for the new states, it is a historic event for the whole of the european union. the irish presidency was tasked with drafting a new constitution. today, during the next presidency, we will be examining these projects, and they will be debated in the european union and in all the member states. and i have to say this in advance, we won't be able to fully assess this until this bill is passed. and for it to be accepted, there must be a clearer understanding. in many countries, and i must say particularly in my own country, poland, a large part of the public is concerned that the preamble has abandoned any reference to god and christianity, that it has established the primacy of eu law over national law in certain areas, that it has changed the way in which voting is conducted, something we cannot accept, and that it has unduly favoured the eastern german states. ladies and gentlemen! montesquieu said that if you want to be a central law, you have to respect local laws and local traditions. we are talking about bringing the european union closer to its citizens. we must ask ourselves whether the increasing centralisation of the european union, the increase in the economic powers of the central bodies of the european union, or the principle of subsidiarity which we should respect, will be fulfilled by this principle of subsidiarity? will monnet's warnings be heeded if we move towards further strengthening the european union's central bodies?
madam president! congratulations on your election! mr. prime minister, ladies and gentlemen! we in poland and in our party were very happy to hear at the end of june that you had agreed to stand as a candidate for the presidency of the european commission. we are delighted to see you in this room and to be able to vote for you. i represent poland and my constituents in the european parliament. in poland, as vice-president of the national chamber of commerce for many years, i represent a group of several hundred thousand enterprises, especially small and medium-sized ones. for many years in poland and europe, we have been discussing the diversity of the chambers of commerce and industry's operating systems among entrepreneurs. after all, there are chambers of the voluntary or compulsory mode, and their appropriate entrenchment in the structure of the state and the economy. in line with the lisbon strategy, the european union should increase its competitiveness by using all available instruments, especially in relation to the us economy, where economic self-governance is of great importance and has the appropriate empowerment. one of these instruments that has not been used is, in our view, the chambers of commerce and industry, which have been a permanent feature of europe since the time of napoleon. i therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this area in the coming term of office and to allow, within your competence, an increase in the amount of resources and tasks entrusted by the european union institutions to the chambers of commerce and industry, so that they are in the right place as beneficiaries of eu funds and tasks of the lisbon strategy. mr president, we wish you, mr prime minister, we wish you continued success in all areas of new activity, with particular attention to those institutions where entrepreneurs are concentrated. and, mr. prime minister, don't forget when they tell you that sometimes the pilot is missing, that in poland there are also excellent navigators.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the european union has been radically enlarged in the last few months. this term of office of mr barroso will be the first full term of office of the president of the european commission for the new accession countries. this is a great historical event and we give mr barroso our full support, as our group chair, mrs muscardini, has said, our full support - both our uen group and - i must also say - my law and justice party, my party from poland, on whose behalf i am here in this honourable assembly. what will be the first issue, the first problem for mr barroso, will be to consolidate europe in its new form, the form of 25 countries, and of course to prepare the new accession countries. the point is that the main thing will be to consolidate the economies and to bring these countries - the 'old' union and the 'new' union - on a level playing field. here, two of the most important things are in front of us. firstly, the preservation of free market principles; and therefore it cannot be accepted that the new accession countries should be forced - politically or in practice - to make any tax changes when their tax system can create better conditions for their economies than the excessive taxes in the 'old' union countries. the second economic issue is the budget issue. we cannot accept budget cuts because, given the fixed costs of the budget, the amounts that would be left for the new accession countries would be too small. i have already spoken yesterday about the constitutional doubts which will also be raised - this problem - by the president of the commission. so i'll remind you of montesquieu's words: "if you want a functioning central body, you must respect local laws and customs". the subsidiary yes, the centralization no.
mr. chairman, please! i want to express my appreciation to you on behalf of the polish delegation to the european people's party/european democrats. your appearance, both in our group, the european people's party, and yesterday, is convincing to us and full of the will of the strong leadership we need. you come from a distant country, from the new member states. your candidacy raises great hopes because you come from a country of ambitious transformation, like ours. at the same time, your candidacy raises the questions i intend to ask. the expansion is officially complete. the actual reintegration has not yet occurred. this will be perhaps the most important challenge of your presidency. we want to ask you, will patching up europe's yalta rift be the priority of your term? you have two great tasks ahead of you. preserving, maintaining and developing european solidarity in its political and economic dimensions. the second is the eastern dimension, the new dimension of the european union. so the question is: in order to integrate the new members into the union's body, to enable them to catch up, to foster a policy of socioeconomic cohesion, are you going to convince the council of the need to link, in the financial perspective for 2007-13, increasing tasks with resources? as you rightly said yesterday, you cannot have more europe for less money. the current extension is cheap. but we must not try to make it cheaper still, and thereby deprive the poorer countries of the union of the chance to catch up in development, the chance given to spain, greece, portugal, ireland, southern italy or the eastern länder of germany. unfortunately, the constitutional amendment introduced at the eu summit in june allows rich countries to block budgets that are inconvenient for them. question: will you support the prodigi commission's proposal for a budget of 1.24% of gdp? we are concerned about the link between the principle of solidarity and the proposals for harmonising corporate taxation in the member states. we cannot accept that this should be seen as forcing the beneficiary countries to raise already high taxes at the risk of losing structural funds. we therefore call on you, mr president, to defend the fundamental principle of tax competition between member states. we think this might be the best service we can do to the lisbon strategy. and then the second thing is the eastern dimension. we expect you to consistently defend its principles and the related financial instrument for the neighbourhood. the union's involvement should be conditional on the beneficiaries respecting human rights and the rule of law. we expect a strong eastern policy from the european union, but at the same time not a permissive policy, but a demanding policy, because we want to improve the lot of millions of people in the mediterranean countries, in ukraine, belarus, moldova, russia. the portuguese, mr. president, have always been great sailors. the european union is moving east. we wish you to steer the european union's sailing ship eastward with a steady hand. good luck with that.
madam president, prime minister barroso, i would like to thank you for your support. you have declared yourself a supporter of the lisbon strategy based on three pillars: economic, social and environmental, but you have not said a word to us about the reasons for the unsatisfactory implementation of the lisbon strategy so far. however, many politicians and economists argue that one important reason is that the implementation of the strategy requires unpopular political decisions. and i wanted to ask you, are you prepared to make such unpopular decisions? and i want to ask you how you intend to persuade the member states to make such unpopular decisions? and i'd like to hear more specifics, because we've heard a lot of generalities here. the other thing. you said you couldn't have more europe for less money. as a representative of poland, i fully agree with that. at the same time, we know that there are member states which are strongly opposed to increasing the budget, nay, even in favour of reducing the current union budget. i would like to ask you how you intend to implement your slogan 'more europe'. how do you intend to persuade these member states to agree to an increase in the commission's resources in such a way that the need for social and economic cohesion can be met and the income gap between the old and the new member states reduced? and finally, the third. we have recently had to deal with violations of the rules of the stability and growth pact. this not only raises concern among some member states that certain rules agreed jointly are not being respected by large member states, which can thus pursue their own interests, but also undermines confidence in the european institutions. i would like to ask you whether you are prepared to implement the requirement of fiscal compliance in the european union and what instruments do you intend to use to achieve this? in particular, do you want to modify the stability and growth pact and in what direction?
mr. chairman, please! i must mention here the thousands of poles, slovaks, czechs and hungarians and citizens of other countries of the new union who have recently been legally working in northern ireland. on the one hand, they were welcomed by the local people, and on the other hand, they were exploited by the german and international lidl trade network. the company deliberately failed to pay its employees the money they were owed, or, as i have testified, only partially. she was very often late with the payment of wages to these foreign workers. there were some difficulties with the cashing of checks from that company. lidl's retailers do this deliberately, because these people, mostly young people, have to return home after their holidays and they won't be able to collect the money they are owed. it smells like 19th century capitalism. i therefore ask the president and the committee on employment and social affairs to intervene in this matter so that this company does not again become an example of europe being divided into the better from the west and the worse from the east, so that it is not associated with a europe of exploitation.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen of the house! i would like to make the following proposal to you. the european parliament should commemorate the victims of the second world war, which began 65 years ago, on 1 september 1939. it began with the nazi german attack on poland on september 17, 1939, supported by the soviet union, thus fulfilling the german-soviet pact, called the ribbentrop-molotov pact. may the memory of the most tragic and bloody of wars, in which more civilians died than soldiers, live on forever. i propose that the european parliament should support this motion by observing a minute's silence in memory of the victims of that war. mr. chairman, please! i ask that a moment of silence be held today in honor of the victims of german nazism.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to see how little has changed in recent years in the various debates on the state of democracy in belarus held here in this parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to take stock of the state of our relations and to reflect on the prospects for improving relations in the future, in the framework of a european neighbourhood policy. i would like to recall briefly that, after its independence in 1991, bilateral relations with belarus began to make satisfactory progress towards the adoption of an association and cooperation agreement and an interim trade agreement. however, all these negotiations were brought to a standstill as a result of the deterioration of the internal political situation in belarus in 1996, and since then, unfortunately, they have not improved. since 2002, however, the european union has been trying to take up the matter again, to try to break out of the situation of blockade, by applying an approach based on reference points whose aim is simply the gradual improvement of political relations with that country. but so far the continuing efforts of the union, the talks, have produced no tangible results. the union is nevertheless ready to continue to make progress as long as there is some movement on the part of the authorities in this country. it should also be remembered that, after the last enlargement, belarus has become a direct neighbour 'we have common borders' and, in this sense, the interest in making it a democratic, stable and prosperous country is multiplying before our eyes. we believe that our proximity can and must be manifested in the long term in close cooperation and exchange in areas of mutual interest such as trade, justice, home affairs, transport, energy, the environment. but all of this calls for fundamental political reforms in this country. i would like to stress once again that the european union is deeply concerned by the recent developments in belarus, where all indications are that the situation is worsening with regard to respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights, and that we are still witnessing increasingly difficult policies towards the independent media - some of which have been closed down - the actions of the government and the forces which support it towards the political opposition forces, and the situation of independent organisations of society and higher education institutions. in this connection, i should like to remind you that we are also following with the greatest interest the debate taking place in the council of europe, here in strasbourg, on the disappeared persons in belarus. according to information submitted by the european trade union confederations, the commission has also initiated an investigation into alleged infringements of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining under the generalised system of preferences regulation. in the light of the findings of this investigation, the union should reconsider belarus' future access to the benefits of the generalised system of preferences. a key element of our policy towards this country is support for civil society and the democratization process. but in recent years the authorities of this country have refused to apply the tax exemption to the debt of the european union, which certainly makes it difficult for such aid to enter and, therefore, for belarusian society to use it and access it. the authorities in this country are currently registering all foreign aid projects, which is enabling them to effectively reject all international aid that they consider to be against their group interests. under these circumstances, how can we improve our relations with this country? we have developed the european neighbourhood policy to further strengthen these relations with our neighbours, including belarus. we believe that this policy will enable us to consolidate our commitment to supporting democratic developments in belarus. i want to make it clear that if fundamental political and economic reforms are carried out, and as soon as they are carried out, belarus will be able to participate fully in the european neighbourhood policy, with all the advantages that this would bring. however, under the present conditions, the minimum required circumstances are not present and therefore we cannot go ahead with this policy towards belarus. the first important milestone for belarus will be the parliamentary elections and the referendum announced for october. the union has committed itself to supporting the democratic parliamentary elections in the autumn in coordination with the office for security and cooperation in europe and the council of europe. but we want to emphasize the legal framework for the elections, as well as the freedom of the media and the environment in which the campaigns of the various political parties must be carried out. the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights has established an election observation mission for the parliamentary elections. the union will participate by supporting the election observers and at the same time we will remain in contact with the democratic forces. however, i must point out that we are very concerned about the announced referendum on the amendment of the constitution and the abolition of the current limit on presidential terms of office. we have repeatedly pointed out to the authorities of that country the consequences that the holding of such a referendum would have for our relations if the circumstances did not change. the conclusions of the general affairs and external relations council adopted yesterday are clear and straightforward on this issue. the commission therefore wishes to send a clear message to the belarusian people once again, so that they know that the union is not forgetting them. the important thing is that the people - especially those fighting for democratic change - do not feel helpless. now more than ever, we need to continue our work in support of civil society and democratic forces in that country. and we've committed to doing so. i understand that parliament's resolution refers to similar concerns in belarus and i am naturally interested in hearing your views on the current developments in our relations and, above all, to reflect on how we can, in the face of this difficult situation, improve our support, our support for the democratization of the country and, therefore, our support and support for the democratic forces in belarus.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it is very pleased that the commission understands the importance of the situation in belarus, and in particular the importance of the electoral campaign and the forthcoming parliamentary elections currently taking place there. since last week, however, the elections have taken on added significance with the announcement of a parallel referendum. this is, of course, an attempt to preserve the existing authoritarian rule, but it is also a great opportunity, a great opportunity for the belarusian people. a chance to mobilize belarusian society and express your own opinion on the state of human rights and democratic standards in belarus. it is also a challenge to our common foreign policy. it seems that our foreign policy, the policy of the european union, needs more courage, it needs to reformulate certain strategic tasks and objectives. the preservation of an independent belarus is in the vital interest of the european union, but the independence of belarus will always be at risk if it is governed in an undemocratic manner. moreover, it will only appear to be a stable country, only appear to guarantee stability in eastern europe. dictatorships usually fall by surprise, but rarely by accident. if our new eastern border, the european union, is to be secure, it cannot be an iron curtain, nor can it be a screen behind which the rich and free hide in shame. our foreign policy towards belarus must be much more active, i.e. it must be different from what it has been so far. it was, of course, right to freeze all programmes under the partnership and cooperation agreement after 1996. it is right to refrain from contacting high-ranking officials of the lukashenka regime, but our policy lacks political initiative towards the belarusians themselves. i am very pleased that the commissioner has acknowledged that the task of european union policy is to support civil society, but we must work together to develop methods that will prove effective. democracy in belarus will not happen by itself, it must be established by the belarusians themselves, but our task is to help them, much less shamelessly than before. this assistance should be targeted at specific social and political groups. to local governments, to ngos, to schools, to youth. its task is to support those who are already forming the seeds of civil society and democratic politics. so, to the democratic opposition, whose merit is that it has managed to integrate into the 5+ coalition recently. these are our friends. they speak the same language, they share the same values, they think in the same categories and they believe in europe. i hope that they will have a future and that they will one day sit in this very chamber. in short, we need more action and more sophistication so that by isolating undemocratic power, we don't isolate society. isolating power to support a more positive belarusian society. as far as the short-term strategy is concerned, we need vigorous action, the emergency action that the commissioner mentioned. firstly, the current election campaign must be monitored very closely and any irregularities must be addressed quickly, such as the delegation of power to the labour party - which has already happened; the refusal to register many candidates; the refusal to allow opposition representatives to be elected to the electoral commissions. the elections and the referendum are so important that our political group, the european people's party, has called for a report to be prepared by a monitoring mission in belarus. we would like this post-election report to be an opportunity for a serious discussion on the future shape of the union's foreign policy towards belarus.
mr. chairman, please! the incumbent president of belarus has called a constitutional referendum in parallel with the parliamentary elections. the belarusian people will elect their representatives in the parliament and decide on the shape of the constitution. there are many voices around the world who are questioning the integrity of the belarusian state authorities and the election results, which will be known only after october 17. it's assumed that the rules of democracy will be broken. i believe that questioning the integrity of elections and referendums before voting is also inconsistent with the spirit of democracy. we have the right to look at the situation, but we cannot make any judgments. furthermore, i doubt whether an undemocratic structure such as we believe the european union and its bureaucratic institutions have the moral right to judge the degree of democracy and the decisions of a sovereign nation as undemocratic. is the european union competent to teach independent states? there's an ancient saying, "medice curate ipsum" - doctor cure yourself. the european union wants to impose its constitutional treaty on free peoples. the national approval referendum is not required. where's the democracy in that? so first, let the european parliament ensure democracy for the european states and guarantee their independence, then use condemnation and admonition against others. "you see the speck in your brother's eye, but do not see the plank in your own eye", pharisees and hypocrites. this is not to say that we should not respond to human rights violations wherever they occur in the world, but that is not what the european parliament is for. it's as if the united states congress passed a resolution on democracy in france or germany, or the polish parliament gave a lecture to the european parliament. that is not what the european parliament is for. so don't let him go over his head. democracy is about respecting the sovereign decisions of nations whether we like them or not. let us wait for the results of the elections in belarus and then each of us, each of the members individually, will be able to assess, but the european parliament as such has no such right! we are therefore opposed to the european parliament sending any diplomatic missions to belarus and to the preparation of joint reports.
the following table summarises the data for the year: mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! belarus has been the european union's closest neighbour since 1 may 2004. despite being the closest neighbor, it's a country where universities are closed and the last free media is shut down. despite this close proximity, it is a country where political parties are delegated only because they are opposition parties, left-wing and right-wing opposition parties, such as the labour party and the belarusian national front. despite all this, despite this neighborhood, we have no guarantee, contrary to what has been said here, that the referendum process and the next elections will be democratic. these are not prejudices, these are facts. it's in belarus that people die who have different views than the official authorities. it's in belarus that the media closes. it's in belarus that democratic candidates have trouble registering with the electoral commission. it's not prejudice. if anyone can't see the difference between the belarusian opposition and the government, then let them note that it is not the belarusian opposition that is responsible for the disappearances. it's not the belarusian opposition that is shutting down free newspapers. if you can't see the difference, you should go to belarus and take a closer look. all of these things are happening under the very noses of the european union, and therefore the european union is responsible for this aspect of its eastern policy. if the european union is today seeking its own identity in foreign policy, it is seeking it without avoiding conflict with its closest allies across the atlantic. if the european union's foreign policy is to be based on respect for fundamental rights, belarus is one of the most important responsibilities of the european union today. if we don't act on this, our credibility in this dispute over the shape of foreign policy will be weakened. therefore, the belarusian opposition today must be sure that we remember them, must be absolutely sure that we support them. that is why today president lukashenko, today he must be sure that his actions will not go unpunished, that is why today the belarusian people must be sure that their european aspirations will one day find a reliable answer on our part.
mr. chairman, the vice chairman of the commission. the european union has unfortunately abandoned the concept of 'wider europe' - an enlarging europe in the context of eastern europe. the term today refers to north africa. it is the maghreb and mashreq, not belarus or ukraine, that are the priorities of the union. that's not good. and so this gulf between democratic and prosperous europe and eastern europe can and will deepen. it's bad for us - the european union - not just for them. the situation in belarus is deteriorating. i can tell. newspapers are shut down, political parties are shut down, people are imprisoned. is our response, the union's, to turn our backs? are we to be like pontius pilate, who washed his hands? let's remember that 2,000 years ago, the result was fatal. that is why we must not reduce our contacts with minsk today, madam president of the commission, but increase them, while at the same time, of course, always recalling human rights and democratic freedoms. the situation in belarus is becoming more serious. president lukashenko has announced the possibility of abolishing the term limits of the office of the president - perhaps he wants to be president for life? but all the more so should we not build a new berlin wall on the new eastern border of the union, the border between poland and belarus, and also between poland and ukraine. belarus is not on mars! it borders us, the union. so let us not ask for whom the bell tolls, but let us say with ernest hemingway, "it tolls for you, for you, europe!" the union must be active towards belarus, we cannot just be readers of newspapers. the proposal to send a special delegation of observers to observe the election results should therefore be supported. i also think that the representatives of the democratic opposition from that country should be invited to join us here in the european parliament. to be passive in this matter, to pretend that the problem will solve itself is - in talleyrand's language worse than a crime, it is a mistake! let the european union not be like the tribe in africa who think that if they do not talk about the problem, the disease, or mention its name, the problem will cease to be relevant. the union, on the contrary, must speak about belarus and speak specifically, madam president!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm interested in discussing what can be done, not what can't be done. so far, we're mostly talking about what can't be done. i would ask the commissioner to write down three points: what can be done. first, diplomats from the eu member states can be instructed to monitor the situation in belarus on a weekly basis before the elections and to inform the eu institutions, including the european parliament, about it. secondly, the commission authorities can be instructed to urgently hold political consultations with the countries with which the european union is in contact, namely the united states and russia, on the development of the pre-election situation in belarus and to define areas for joint assessments. i would also like to be informed as a member of the european parliament. thirdly, the financial plans could provide for assistance for belarusian youth who want to study abroad, for example in poland, and for small businesses who want to grow outside the influence of president lukashenka's administration. the third point requires little money, but it requires a lot of courage, and i hope that the commission will have the courage to do so. and finally, i want to say to one of the debaters who doesn't see the difference between cuba and belarus. well, there's a difference to be aware of: cubans escape to the united states in boats at night and die on the way. belarusians come to poland, to the european union, by car, to take up work and return to this belarus. that's one of the differences that's worth remembering.
i would like to join, mr president, all those who are calling for greater action and involvement of the european union and our parliament in the affairs of belarus and in particular the call for the sending of observers. to be honest, i'm not particularly optimistic about the success of this mission, because as joseph stalin once said, "it doesn't matter who votes how, it matters how the votes are counted", and how the votes are counted has already been decided. nevertheless, the situation requires our continued attention, for it is getting worse. in belarus, there is no rule of law, there are the governments of those who simply use the law. the effect of this is the elimination of, among other things, independent education, the european university of the humanities has already been mentioned. i would also like to remind you of the closure of the only belarusian-language high school in minsk - the kolas high school. in general, we are witnessing in belarus a regression simply to the state of the soviet union. it's the official ideology. there is such a thing, the high chamber, as the official belarusian ideology and there are high commissioners in each of the institutions, there are high positions of leadership in ideology. so we have a return to practices that are just not understandable to us, given what's been happening in europe lately. the european union's greater involvement is crucial. it would be very important to involve our neighbours, both near and far, in this activity, and i would like to return to what mr siwiec said, namely that we should also use all the possibilities that exist here for joint action on belarus, also from russia, and in particular from democratic russia, which is unfortunately in retreat, but which is still there.
president of the council, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to present to you, on behalf of the council, the draft budget for 2005, as we adopted it in the council last july. as minister for european affairs, i shall be very much in your midst in the coming months and i would therefore like to take this opportunity to once again offer you my official congratulations on your election to the european parliament, and in particular, madam president, may i mention the chairs of the two committees, the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. we have had excellent cooperation in the past years as the two arms of the budgetary authority, namely you as the european parliament and us as the council, and i am convinced that we can continue this cooperation, and i think the conciliation meeting we had last july is a good start. we have made some good agreements at the conciliation meeting and i would like to mention one here on this occasion, namely the provision of information by the council to you as the european parliament on the forthcoming financial perspective. i think that is a good starting point for the way in which we, as the presidency of the european union, also envisage communication and dealing with you as the european parliament, also with regard to the financial perspective. i should like to make a few general remarks on the basic principles of this budget and then a few specific explanatory remarks on the various headings. the council has drawn up the draft budget in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999, as you know. this includes the importance of ceilings and their respect and the discussion on adequate margins, discussion on contingencies and flexibility. the council stressed that sufficient payment appropriations should be made available, but that reality should not be lost sight of. overestimation of payment appropriations should be avoided. the disproportionate surpluses which have occurred in recent years are not an indication of the best financial management. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. the council has, as you have seen, set out with great care our priorities and our backwardness in the various headings of the financial perspective. i would like to stress here the importance of making sufficient space available to the new member states as a priority in accordance with the agreements we have made on this matter in the past, including in copenhagen. finally, mr president, as regards general explanatory remarks, i should like to mention the importance of the so-called activity statements. i think that is a good new way of improving the quality and improving more in terms of information provision and that it is a step forward in the way we deal with the budget. the commission has therefore been asked to continue its efforts in this area. i would like to go through the various categories, mr president, starting with the general remark that, as you know, the draft budget provides for an amount of 116 billion euro for commitments, which is 4.1% more than in the 2004 budget. a total of eur 105 billion has been made available for payment appropriations, or the cash resources that the european union will have to disburse during 2005. this represents an increase of 5.4% over the appropriations for the current year, corresponding to 0.99% of the union's gross national income. as regards heading 1, agriculture, the following remark. in previous years, there were often overestimates. the council has therefore decided to reduce the amounts proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft budget for the common agricultural policy by a total of eur 1 billion. we have done this by a general reduction in all the headings of the preliminary draft budget which exceeded eur 800 million. the council has taken into account, however, that the final level of appropriations will be fixed in the autumn when the commission presents its note of amendments as agreed in the interinstitutional agreement. as regards heading 2, structural measures, the council adopted the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft budget for this heading. nevertheless, and in view of the substantial under-utilisation of the resources for structural measures, the council decided to reduce the payment appropriations. the payment appropriations proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft budget have therefore been reduced by eur 3 billion by way of a general reduction. the resulting credit corresponds to the expected level of implementation. this reduction also affects the community initiatives and the completion of programmes before 2000. in this connection, however, i would like to emphasize that the payment appropriations which the council has set in its draft budget, even after this reduction, are still considerably higher than the level of implementation in previous years. for heading 3, internal policy, the council chose to include in the draft budget the amounts proposed for multiannual programmes under the codecision procedure, as agreed after enlargement. this also applies to the specific amounts linked to the copenhagen conclusions. however, the council has limited the appropriations for some budget lines not based on multiannual programmes. this applies to press and communication and to preparatory measures in the field of safety investigation. the council considers that the amounts allocated by the commission to some specific agencies are larger than can be considered realistic in view of their recent establishment. the council has decided to make these choices under heading 3 with a margin of eur 108 million below the ceiling for heading 3 of the financial perspective. this margin will also enable the european parliament to set its own priorities for internal policy. as regards heading 4, external action, the council departed from the approach adopted by the commission in its preliminary draft budget. the council considered that the priorities should be specified in order not to exceed the ceiling of heading 4 of the financial perspective. the use of the flexibility instrument is not in question. the council did, however, accept the amounts proposed by the commission for the reconstruction of iraq. in order to ensure the resources needed for the common foreign and security policy, the council maintained the level set for this purpose in the final budget for 2004. however, in order to finance these priorities under the existing ceiling of heading 4 of the financial perspective, the council applied a small, proportionate reduction to the amounts proposed by the commission for the main budget lines; appropriations for international fisheries agreements are included in proportion. this brings the amounts down to the level of the financial resources for the current year, with a small margin in heading 4 for unforeseen events. i hope and expect that we will be able to reach agreement on the final budget for the cfp and the international fisheries agreements at the second reading of the 2005 budget, as provided for in the interinstitutional agreement. as regards the presidency's efforts to provide information on foreign policy, i would like to point out what has been agreed with the european parliament. as you know, the next meeting will take place on 21 september in the framework of the special agreement we have made with your parliament on this subject under the italian presidency. we are trying to inform you in advance of developments. i would also like to refer to the speech which my colleague, foreign minister bot, recently made to your committee on foreign affairs. the situation with regard to heading 5, administrative expenditure, is rather complicated. the joint estimates of the institutions have led to an excess of the ceiling. however, i would remind you that our institutions had already agreed not to use the flexibility instrument for administrative expenditure in 2005. the controlled development of administrative expenditure is part of sound financial management. i am sure that you, as members of the european parliament, the other branch of the budgetary authority, share the council's view of sound financial management. the council therefore set a margin of around eur 50 million, taking into account the savings resulting from the development of information technologies and interinstitutional cooperation, as well as from specific recruitment programmes for staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council accepted the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission. however, in view of the expected level of implementation of these measures, the council has reduced the payment appropriations as proposed by the commission somewhat and brought them into line with real needs. madam president, may i thank you and your parliament for your attention so far. i wish you every success in the debates on this draft budget. i hope and trust that we will be able to present a balanced budget for 2005 in time. i hope that is possible on the basis of the proposals as they stand. i suppose this is a good basis. i know that we are not yet in agreement on all points, madam president, and that is why we are looking forward to the debate. i am convinced that we will come out of this together in a good way, as we have in the past.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the budgetary authorities always have a tight and full work schedule, and it is therefore quite typical that an important budgetary debate should take place at the first ordinary plenary session of the new parliament. it is the debate on the 2005 budget, the first full budgetary year for the enlarged union and, above all, the first budget to be discussed and adopted by 25 member states and the first budget to be adopted by parliamentarians from 25 member states. the commission has clearly defined the priorities of this budget. the first priority is to promote the integration of the new member states. the community's growth potential and cohesion for the enlarged union must be strengthened. we should be meeting a growing responsibility in the world, and there is simply, i regret to say, no way around putting the fight against terrorism at the top of the agenda. mr president-in-office, you have presented the main points of the council's draft budget and the outcome of the council's first reading. i would like to repeat the main points of the commission's preliminary draft budget. we had proposed a budget of eur 109.5 billion for the year 2005; this would be equivalent to 1.03 per cent of the gross national income of the enlarged union. agenda 2000, the current financial perspective, foresees a much higher figure for the 2005 financial year, namely 1.08%, and if you add to this the fact that the european development fund is currently outside the budget and needs to be financed, then in the financial planning you actually arrive at a figure of 1.11% for the year 2005. i mention this now because we have to assess whether what the commission is proposing for the next period is such a large increase or not. so we have to compare the 1.11% in the financial planning now with what we are proposing for 2007 and beyond of 1.14%. the budget for 2005 is not the next financial year, but the 2005 budget, and for the first time in the 2005 budget we have direct aid to farmers in the new member states. we have this time-shift in agriculture, where expenditure is delayed by one year. so for the first time, direct aid to farmers in the new member states is included in the budget. overall, agricultural expenditure for 2005 is set to increase very sharply, by a total of between eur 4 and 4.5 billion according to the commission's preliminary draft budget, and by at least eur 3.5 billion according to the council's draft budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore take account of the council's decisions here, and i emphasize this, of course, in the light of the fact that it is often said that only the commission and parliament propose increases. we have to state the council's decisions. the council is now proposing a reduction of 1 billion euro in the agricultural sector. we shall see if we can make it happen. as usual, we present the updated estimates for agricultural expenditure in october, and then there is usually a consensus that the new estimates should be used. i have to go into a little more detail on the structural funds. here, we have proposed a strong increase in payment appropriations for 2005 on the part of the commission, and we have also proposed an increase in commitment appropriations. the council did not reduce the commitment appropriations. it cannot do so because everything is laid down here, on the one hand by agenda 2000 and on the other by the accession treaties. so here the commitment powers are, so to speak, completely fixed. as regards the question of how many payment appropriations we need next year, the council believes that we could do with 3 billion euros less than the commission has proposed. i must point out, however, that 2005 will be the sixth year of the new programme and we need more payment appropriations because the implementation of the structural funds programmes is finally in full swing. in fact, in recent years we have repeatedly seen that the member states themselves have overestimated their ability to use the structural funds. but this year, it looks like they underestimated their own capabilities. in any case, we are at present at a much, much higher rate of implementation of the structural funds than in the previous year. we have already spent 67% of the funds at the end of august; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we shall now examine in the coming weeks what adjustments are possible in the budget, but at least one thing is clear - and i must say this very clearly to the council: either we need additional funds in 2004 or we must ensure that the resources are sufficient in 2005. it's just not the place to have that cut. we have the n+2 rule, as you know. this means that we must also ensure that when the payment requirements come, there are sufficient funds in the budget to meet them. in view of this development, i can only agree with the rapporteur of the parliament, mr garriga, who has made it clear in his document that we must re-use the figures in the preliminary draft budget. i would also like to comment briefly on the recent debate on whether the structural funds should be withdrawn from new member states which have drastically reduced their corporate tax rates. i can only say very clearly that this proposal is not acceptable and is really not justified. firstly, the new member states have received no structural fund funds at all, except for advances. secondly, it will be necessary for each new member state to raise the co-financing in order to use the structural funds at all. and that basically means that there is an increased need for national public funds, not a reduced need. we have to take that into account. thirdly, it is not possible to simply compare tax rates without also addressing the breadth of the tax base, and many reforms in the new member states have gone in the exact direction of closing exceptions to the tax base - or tax loopholes, as i would call it. all of this must be taken into account. fourthly, it is a question of helping the new member states to make up the large economic gap. we should not, a few months after this wonderful historic enlargement, now question the spirit of solidarity which has always been and must continue to be a pillar of the european union. i would like to stress one point in particular in relation to internal policies, which is always important to parliament in relation to pilot projects and preparatory measures. i can assure the house that we are improving the dialogue between the commission and parliament on this and we will inform you shortly of the implementation, so to speak, of the updates. on foreign policy: the budget available for foreign policy is currently decreasing in real terms as a result of the agenda 2000 commitments. on the one hand, we are faced not only with the political will to take on more responsibility in the world, but also with the fact that we are faced with constantly new challenges. we have always managed to find the right budgetary answers to the challenges in recent years, and i am optimistic and confident that we will succeed in doing so in 2005. we have had to use the flexibility reserve on several occasions in recent years and i believe that this will continue to be necessary in 2005. the council, and in particular the european council, has taken further political decisions with budgetary effect since the commission presented the preliminary draft budget. on the one hand, this is the political decision to open accession negotiations with croatia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the community's structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. this, of course, also has budgetary implications. the commission proposal has implications for heading 7, pre-accession aid. at the same time, it also has an impact on heading 4, since more funds are also being made available there. in the next few weeks we will be submitting to parliament and the council letters of amendment to the preliminary draft budget for 2005, and i hope that on this basis we will also be able to reach a good decision on both heading 7 and heading 4, foreign policy expenditure. i am also optimistic about administrative expenditure. we still have to negotiate, but in recent years we have been able to find compromises. that will be the case for next year too. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we must make every effort to find the necessary means. i am of course pleased for the commission that the council is proposing to grant the commission 680 posts for enlargement next year. but at the same time you have not provided the necessary funds to pay the new staff, which means that we would have to introduce a new voluntary european year in the commission. i don't know if the unions and others will agree. we must therefore work to ensure that the appropriate means are used here. i 'll get back to the basics . the council is proposing a budget of eur 116 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 105 billion in payment appropriations, i.e. a discrepancy of eur 11 billion. it is, however, smaller than what the council now has in the preliminary draft budget. there will be further discussion. i also assume that the president of the council is not now leading the debate on the 2005 budget ideologically in the question of whether or not to give the 1% figure. the dutch are rightly known for being very pragmatic and realistic, and we then draw up a budget which provides the necessary funds for community policies. the first reading of parliament will take place at the end of october, and i am glad that the debate on this will be one of my last acts of office. in the meantime, we will of course devote a great deal of energy to finding a good basis for a good compromise for the 2005 budget. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the budg committee. madam president! as the first president of the committee on budgets in the plenary, i would like to point out that, in addition to new faces, the 2005 budget brings an element of novelty, which commissioner schreyer has already mentioned. this is not only the first full annual budget of the union of 25 countries, the new composition of the european commission, but also the composition of the fundamental european institutions, as modified or amended by enlargement, from the court of justice to the ombudsman, and the first year of implementation of the new staff regulation. however, our work will be dominated by an element of continuity, a continuity based on the formal rules and informal arrangements made by our predecessors. so this is the right place and time to acknowledge the achievements of our predecessors, as this has been a very fruitful parliamentary term. parliament has built up its position as the full arm of the budgetary authority of the european union, as a full participant in the budgetary procedure in the european union, and this is thanks to the previous term of office and the personal merit of mr terrence wynn, chairman of the committee on budgets. as we continue to work on the 2005 budget this year, we must take a good look at the message of the european elections. many voters have told us something clearly by their absence from the european elections. there is a growing need for clear value added from taxpayers' money, for transparency and rationality in budgetary spending, for the right allocation of resources to tasks that bring tangible benefits locally and environmentally. i say this, as if i were being impressed by one of the earlier votes today, which was an amendment to the 2004 budget to take account of the 2003 budget surplus of some eur 5.5 billion, but in real terms, taking into account the previously adjusted budget, it was over eur 10 billion, which represents one tenth of the then eu budget, and which also means that financial programming in the sense of a good definition of the monetary term for legislative tasks and initiatives remains an important task for the next few years of our parliament's term of office. it should not be surprising that, as someone from behind the former iron curtain, i am sensitive to the budgetary situation of the new member states, which can now speak for themselves. the aspirations of these 80 million people should not be limited to cash transfers. i am aware, however, of the scrutiny with which the commission's proposals and the council's proposals are being studied in warsaw, prague, tallinn and other cities, for example the proposals for savings of some pln 3 billion in structural measures or reduced amounts for agricultural interventions. this is indeed studied in the context of the provisions of the accession treaties. i am pleased to note, in this context, that the amounts allocated to bulgaria and romania have remained unchanged, despite the numerous savings, which in budgetary terms confirms the political will for accession in 2007. parliament's vote on the 2005 budget will be determined by the amendments which are now being tabled. of course, it's not going to be a simple sum. the deadline for the committee is tomorrow, the deadline for the political groups is next week, to prepare the first reading for 28 october this year. if anything can be perceived as a significant tone of debate - also in the committee on budgets - it is the tone of dislike for the mechanistically made horizontal cuts, the cuts made mechanically by the council in various areas, above all in headings 3, 4 and 5, i.e. it is concerned that the traditional priorities of the european parliament find funding and that, for example, the understandable needs for funding the common foreign and security policy do not constitute an autonomous problem but a problem to be solved within the framework of the whole of the financial tasks of chapter four. it deserves, in our opinion, a more individualized approach. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i would like to leave the rest to the rapporteurs.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. ladies and gentlemen! most members of the uen group are concerned about the continuing reduction of union payments in relation to the national product of the member states. this is in line with the 2000-2006 financial directive, but not in line with the union's general philosophy. the european union's enlargement limits the relative size of its redistribution of resources and thus, assuming that the efficiency of the use of resources is constant, limits its development potential. at the same time, the union is continuing to aspire to a growing role in global economic competition, with reference to the lisbon strategy, among other things. it's not a coherent policy, in our view, it's like putting on the gas and the brake at the same time. with reservations from our danish colleague, the whole uen group rejects the reductions in payments proposed by the council and demands an increase, not a decrease, in payments as a percentage of gdp in the financial perspective for 2007-2013. the reduction in payments proposed by the council for the second line is greater than for the first line. this generally means pessimism or distrust of the council's ability to use the funds, especially by the new member states. but it also means changing the proportions to the detriment of the pro-growth measures. the reductions in payments proposed by the council in headings 1 and 2 are clearly mechanical in nature, since the round sums of these reductions are striking. the uen group therefore supports the commission's proposed amounts. and then there's a third, smaller point. the committee on budgets has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the baltic sea region, which calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border controls. the values on which the union is founded and our own security require us to support the development of the rule of law in our neighbouring countries, but cutting back on this will do little to achieve this.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new legislation on genetically modified organisms has been fully applicable since last april. this legislation allows for consumer choice through clear labelling and case-by-case risk analysis, while ensuring that gmos authorised in the european union are safe for human consumption and for the environment. the application for the authorisation of foods derived from maize line nk 603 was submitted in april 2001 and has been examined and analysed during that period in accordance with the legislation in force. the application was reviewed by the union states and the european food safety authority and the opinion published by efsa states that no safety concerns have been identified. there is a validated detection method for this genetically modified organism, which will make it possible to trace and label it in accordance with current standards. all the conditions necessary for its authorisation are therefore fulfilled. the authorisation of the genetically modified organism, food and feed is mainly based on safety parameters. as regards the possible economic impact, i would like to stress that food and food ingredients derived from different lines of genetically modified maize have been notified or authorised for marketing, so the authorisation of this new nk 603 line would broaden the spectrum of possibilities but would in no way be a precedent. it should be noted, however, that the authorisation has not yet been granted and that an application for authorisation submitted insistently under the 2001 directive is being examined.
thank you very much, commissioner! i had the great pleasure of listening to you today and of debating the issue of belarus with the commissioner. it's a tradition that i'm going to argue with you again. i'd like to thank you for your answer. but please note that this is a controversial issue. controversial, because the council of the union did not take a decision on this matter, there was no majority necessary to take this decision and i think this is the best way to show that this matter will still have its consequences, probably these consequences will also be hotly and strongly discussed. and if i may bring up the subject of rapeseed, because i know that the european commission is currently working on the approval of genetically modified rapeseed. could the commissioner also comment on this? i also know that my government - the polish government - has a negative view on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! in the face of the tragedy of children and adults in ossetia, the voice is dying, but we must speak! you have to say it and you have to do it, so you don't cry again. there is no good terrorism or bad terrorism. everyone is evil. there is no terrorism in the name of god, because all terrorism comes from satan. but still, this film about chechnya that we've been watching for years is not a black and white film with a good sheriff and bad criminals. well, in this movie, the sheriff has shot people in the back in the past, because we actually have two terrorists in chechnya. the one that is talked about a lot today, also in this room, and the other one -- the one that is not talked about -- is state terrorism. it is good that the union is taking a stand on this. let it be the voice of the whole union and let russia take note, which has so far preferred to talk to selected members of the union, such as germany and france, as the recent summit in sochi has shown. working together, mr. president, as the union as a whole, we can more easily influence russia and fight for human rights. and in chechnya, but not only in chechnya.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i was and am against the war in iraq, as is the vast majority of the polish public. i was also, like all of us in this room, an opponent of saddam hussein. and that is why i have the right to say: let iraq no longer divide europe, let the union agree on a minimum consensus and present it together. it's not about artificial consent, it's about fiction of unity. it's about an agreement between the nations and governments of europe, both those who supported the intervention in iraq and those who were against it, an agreement around a specific goal. this goal, which may not be very effective, may not solve all the problems, but it is concrete, very concrete, is to hold local elections as soon as possible, starting with najaf and karbala, for example. the democratic house in iraq should be built from the foundations, not from the roof. and that foundation is local elections and the establishment of regional authorities with authority, not just guns. the building will be the roof of the national election. that's the only order we want. we must be aware that local elections are a necessary remedy, but with side effects. this could lead to iraq being divided into sunni, shia or kurdish spheres of influence. true, but it's better than a permanent war of all against all. and then finally. the european union mission should be in baghdad, not in annan, far from the iraqi capital. we can't leave baghdad to the americans. the union is not worthy of evading its responsibilities.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. we are discussing the eu declaration on iraq. the very idea of making such a declaration is part of the general belief that there is such a thing as a european union foreign policy. there is no such thing as european public opinion, and therefore there can be no eu foreign policy. the iraq case is the best example of this. each of the member countries has its own foreign policy, has its own view on iraq. within each member state, too, there are differences in foreign policy, but each of our countries has its own government, which has been empowered by the voters to conduct foreign policy. the european union did not receive such a mandate from the voters. so where did the idea for the iraq declaration come from? it is about forcing us all to believe that we, the european parliament, have such a mandate to conduct foreign policy. well, that's not true! we don't have that kind of mandate. in the case of iraq, as in many other conflicts around the world, the european union can provide humanitarian aid. it can also offer its services as a mediator and negotiator, provided that all parties to the conflict - on the part of the european union - wish to be involved. but it is not appropriate to make political proposals, because we are not in a position to pursue a common foreign policy. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! contrary to the naïve and sometimes cynical voices that have been heard in this chamber, the commission, through its representatives, has presented a rational assessment of the situation in iraq. yes, there is a rebuilding of the state and its institutions. yes, there is an escalation of violence used as political pressure, political pressure there in iraq, but also against countries that have chosen to participate militarily and politically in the reconstruction of that country. this is a watershed moment. either iraq, with the support of the international community, will win this confrontation, or there will be great destabilization. there is a chance to win this confrontation, but it requires determination and proper judgment. i want to pay tribute to the soldiers and civilians who risk their lives to be in iraq in the interest of the people of this country and to protect their lives. i also wanted to say that if they're taking this risk, they're doing it for the iraqi people first.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! you can see with the naked eye that the situation in iraq is gradually deteriorating. the area of guerrilla warfare is expanding, the number of terrorist acts is increasing. last sunday, there were 600 such attacks. the position of the interim government is being weakened and the political process as defined by security council resolution 1546 is at risk of being impeded. the elections should take place by 31 january 2005. if they do not take place, the constitution will not be adopted and the final, permanent government will not be appointed at the beginning of 2006. this means that we are at a turning point now and either iraq will go in the direction of keeping the calendar outlined in resolution 1546, or the whole reconstruction of that country will be halted. so the question is, what do we do? first, not to weaken the military coalition, as the socialists want, not to withdraw troops, but to strengthen the military contingent, because the current army of about 200,000 soldiers is definitely not enough to stabilize the situation in iraq. second, to gradually increase the role of the un in iraq and move beyond the current role of the united nations as the midwife of the democratic process. thirdly, what is important for the european union, and what we have included in our draft resolution on iraq by the meps of the european people's party, is to support the iraqi transformation in various areas and very actively, on the basis that iraq is our common responsibility, the common responsibility of all europeans and of the entire european union. provide political support, by supporting the activities of the interim government and later the permanent iraqi authorities; expertise, e.g. in the creation of police forces; humanitarian and financial support, necessarily on a larger scale than in the current year. democratic iraq cannot be held hostage to last year's european conflicts. minister bot said iraq is divided. iraq cannot be divided. you have to draw a line between last year's disputes. the future of iraq requires the full mobilization of all of us and of the entire european union, as was and is the case during the reconstruction in the balkans.
mr. chairman, please! my party, the league of polish families, and my political group, independence and democracy, have always been and will always be opposed to the creation of a constitution for all of europe. it is right that on a matter of such importance to the future of our peoples, a broad and fair public debate and referendum should be held in all 25 countries without exception. the budgetary resources allocated to the union for information on the constitution should be equitably distributed between supporters and opponents of the treaty. the suggestion by the constitutional committee that the ratification process should be held in all countries between 5 and 8 may, supposedly to mark the end of world war ii, should be considered a grim joke of history. europe was strong when it was free from the domination of any state and when cooperation between free peoples was not hampered by bureaucracy and supranational structures. our position is clear: we will always be against the construction of a federalist europe, with its own constitution above the law of sovereign nations.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the constitutional affairs committee, i regret that military language is dominating our discussion today. we hear "the fight for the constitution", we have to win the "war for the constitution", and if there's a war, it's the enemies. and yet in europe, in the european union, there are enough divisions to create new ones right now, using this cold war language, this military language. my question to the commissioner and to the minister is: do you really think it is realistic, lunar in my view, to have a constitutional referendum in europe one day? after all, it's really propaganda and forcing people to be happy. and if it has to be one day, i propose, mr. chairman, february 30th.
the debate on communicating europe, mr president of the council, as the honourable member says, is all about the image of europe, both inside and outside europe, and i agree with her on that. what we are focusing on is the engagement of citizens in europe with the european union, but there is absolutely a discussion about the role of the european union in the world, because that is also something that citizens increasingly expect from their european union.
council, president, as the honourable member rightly pointed out in his question, the positive agenda of the transatlantic relationship goes far beyond economic cooperation and trade relations and indeed covers a whole range of subjects. it is shared values, common interests that form the basis of our partnership with the united states. as stated in the european security strategy, the transatlantic relationship is unique. the european union and the united states are working on joint strategies to combat emerging threats such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, rogue states and organised crime. both parties shall cooperate closely to promote respect for human rights within the united nations. they act together to promote peace, stability, democracy and development in regions such as the balkans and the south caucasus and in countries such as afghanistan. they both want to see iraq grow into a stable and democratic country with self-government. as regards the middle east peace process, they undertake to work together towards a peaceful solution in accordance with the road map. they also cooperate in crisis management, such as in the sudanese darfur. the recent eu-us summit on 26 june showed how strong, deep and significant the relationship between the european union and the united states is. this summit, mr president, was an excellent opportunity to set a forward-looking agenda and, as you know, seven joint declarations were adopted on the main priorities for cooperation between the eu and the usa. the council intends to concentrate on an effective follow-up to these statements. as regards eu-us cooperation in the field of development aid, the eu, in its capacity as donor, has the opportunity to raise aid issues at troika meetings. poverty reduction, the millennium development goals and the development finance agreements form the framework of eu development policy. the eu, mr president, is open to further discussions with the us on these issues.
i need advice. mr president, this is of course also the subject of kyoto, the subject of discussion with the united states. i have just indicated, when discussing the kyoto item and the importance of ratifying it, how we are dealing with this as the council, and in particular that the person in question is holding talks with the united states, among others, from the netherlands presidency of the european union.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the dutch vessel 'women on waves':- oral question (b6-0010/2004) by mrs ilda figueiredo, mr francis wurtz, mrs eva-britt svensson, mr miguel portas and mr sérgio ribeiro on the ban on the entry into portugal of the vessel 'women on waves'. - oral question (b6-0011/2004) by mrs gröner, mrs edite estrela, mrs madeira, mr vasconcelos, mrs jardim fernandes, mrs breyer, mrs evans, mr romeva rueda, mrs carlshamre and mrs gibault, on the ban imposed by the portuguese government on the dutch vessel 'women on waves' to enter the community;
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. members of the house! first of all, i would like to thank god for allowing me to speak in the european parliament on the most important issue of our time - the protection of life, especially when more than 50 million babies are killed in their mothers' wombs every year, which is a genocide far greater than the millions of victims of the holocaust. many people around the world ask if there can be a greater depravity and bestiality than killing a child in the womb of its mother, a woman who should be the embodiment of love and tenderness, whose womb is supposed to be the safest place, but which unfortunately becomes a grave. killing a child in the womb is not a human right. so what rights are the "women on the waves" trying to defend, whose leader was not even allowed to practice medicine where she went, yet she gives life-threatening hormonal contraceptives and promotes pharmaceuticals that can cause miscarriage and performs abortions? do 21st century europeans want the kind of freedom that allows people with disturbed personalities, without conscience, feelings of superiority, dignity and compassion, to be greased, which in recent times, in order not to disturb a dormant conscience, is sometimes described as immature? she used to be called a psychopath! reasonable and responsible doctors and scientists watch in horror the manipulation and degradation of science, which in the laboratory, under the microscope, is carrying out a disguised terrorism against the most vulnerable children with the creation of modern death camps. how is the killing of defenseless babies in their mothers' wombs different from the bieslan massacre? in europe, contrary to public opinion, the death penalty has been abolished for the most serious crimes, while at the same time, the same public opinion is being used to promote the death penalty for the most defenseless and innocent. on what basis would the european union claim the right to decide on the life and death of a human being? it is this approach to the problem of the most important values and human life that is causing europe and the whole of western civilization to be more and more threatened with collapse today. if you can't see that, it's because political correctness has made you blind and deaf. i would like to express my highest respect and appreciation to the portuguese authorities for not allowing the ship of death into their country and to appeal for respect for life from conception to natural death. (applause from the right)
mr. speaker, the house of lords! the issue we're talking about today, i can tell you, unfortunately, is two-dimensional. one dimension would seem obvious in this chamber - does a member state of the european union have the right to prevent a crime from being committed on its territory which is a crime under the law of that country? well, i don't think this is a matter that should be discussed! we want a europe where each country can define what is the law on its territory and can use all the means to defend that right. in my view, and in the opinion of my colleagues, the portuguese government had every right not to allow a ship carrying death and crime into its territorial waters and not to allow it to dock on the shores of portugal. of course, there is a second dimension to this debate, which is rightly brought up here by the gentlemen on the left. - yes, that's right! it's also a debate about how modern europe treats the unborn. it is a deep shame for modern civilization, it is a deep shame for modern europe, that in so many countries the fundamental right to life is not respected! in this house, and thank god, after the new european elections, there are more and more members who will have the courage to say: unborn children have the right to life! unborn children have a right to live in europe and they have a right to live anywhere! here in this room, it is very good that there are more people today who remember the words of our savior 2,000 years ago: "as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me". these words have been with civilized mankind for 2,000 years. those words must not be forgotten! (applause from the right)
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! you have to realize that when we talk about "ship on the waves", that discussion is very much about the abortion issue. this is a problem in europe that's quite recent. it should be remembered that it is only in the last few years that most european countries have agreed to the freedom of abortion, and not all of them. fortunately, there are still countries where it is not allowed! even those who, as pro-abortionists, believe that abortion is morally indifferent must realize that this debate is very controversial and that for many people in europe, and in many countries in europe for a large majority of people, abortion is simply a serious crime. all, whether pro-choice or anti-choice, realize that this is a major civilization problem. if this great problem of civilization today boils down to whether the right to information or the right to travel has been violated by portugal, then this means a special degree of hypocrisy, a special degree of ill will or a special degree of stupidity. we in this house cannot afford either to be wicked or stupid, because if this house starts to look at this problem in terms of permission to travel and permission to freedom of information, then this house will give itself the worst possible witness and will be heading for the collapse of civilization and consequently the collapse of this organisation which is the european union and the european parliament! you have to realize that in many countries in europe, in ireland, in malta, in portugal, abortion is not allowed. nor is abortion allowed in poland. this ship of the women on the waves association has also arrived in poland. in poland, their presence was an invitation to commit a crime. those who have entered poland once must realize that if they enter again, first of all they will be responsible for the crime they committed before, but they will also, i hope, be subject to restrictions and not be allowed to enter poland, because the solution adopted by the portuguese government is the best solution. there is no doubt that the portuguese procedure has nothing to do with community law. it's been said before. portugal is a sovereign state and its courts are independent. i also urge you once again not to reduce the problem to the pathetic issue of information and mobility.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. last june i witnessed the langenord ship (a dutch abortion clinic owned by women on the waves) entering polish territorial waters. we, the league of polish families, as an organization for the defense of unborn life, have decided not to allow this heinous provocation. for two weeks i saw how the organization "women on the waves" repeatedly made fun of polish law by breaking many regulations, such as entering the port of władysławów without the permission of the port captaincy, which created a danger to navigation in the port for other vessels. another example of breaking the law was the importation of pharmaceutical products that were not allowed in my country. i would also like to point out that the sanitary conditions on this ship were in violation of all standards. if in the future the women on the waves want to enter polish ports, we won't allow it.
i would like to mention the case of violations of the treaties by certain member states and to recall that, according to the provisions of the accession treaty signed, inter alia, with the european community, polish entrepreneurs have the right to provide services freely in all member states. this is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union, which was not suspended as a result of the accession negotiations and has been applicable to poles since the first day of membership in the european union. the transitional periods we are dealing with apply only to persons who wish to apply for employment through a contract of employment. they do not apply to those who provide services or engage in self-employment. however, in many member states, i can name a few, polish service providers who carry out orders from local customers, as well as persons wishing to open their own service establishments, face additional administrative requirements that make it difficult to take up such activities. in view of the above, i think it is necessary to ask the european commission what measures it intends to take to check these practices and what measures it intends to take to counter these practices which are incompatible with the treaties in force.
mr president, there is no hiding the fact that the outgoing european commission has behaved extremely unfairly towards the newly admitted countries. all previous enlargements of the union have been based on the principle that new countries are granted the same treatment as those already in the union. and this is not just for countries like greece, portugal and ireland, which had a low national income like ours, but they had a market economy and were therefore able to take advantage of the eu's mechanisms quickly. this also applies to east germany, which, like us, had to undergo a systemic transformation. the german democratic republic, on the date of accession to the union, received agricultural subsidies at the level of 100% of what west german farmers receive. she's got production limits at the level of her consumption. poland and the other eastern bloc countries were accepted on much worse, unfair terms. this injustice will remain the hallmark of your commission, mr prodi. the union monitors democracy in various countries outside the union and beyond the most distant prospects of accession to the union, and it has not had the courage to check whether the referendum on accession to the union was conducted democratically. whether equal time was available in the public media for supporters and opponents of accession. unfortunately, there was no equality, no democracy. the union didn't want to see it. this is another injustice of the commission's passing term. there are other reasons to be unhappy with the work of the commission under your presidency. it was during this term that the draft constitution was introduced. the commission's support for this project has led to the union moving rapidly towards a single state. the principle of subsidiarity is mentioned, but at the same time the member states are given competence in matters which they can perfectly well regulate themselves. the european union is to be built up step by step into a military, a common foreign policy, a common currency, a common law, a common jurisdiction. the commission is slowly becoming the european government. it's not allowed.
mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission. i remember my first meeting with the italian prime minister, romano prodi, six years ago in rome, during an official visit by the polish prime minister, jerzy buzek, now a member of the european parliament, whom i accompanied as minister for european affairs. i remember your kindness and openness to my country. for that, after all these years, i thank you. you have presided over the european commission in historic times, at the time of the greatest enlargement in history, albeit the fifth, and you have made history and gone down in history. since then, the union has become more european and more representative of our continent. and more so, over time, we hope, it will be competitive with america and asia. but your term is not just a period of breakthroughs, it is also a period of many question marks that your successor in portugal will have to deal with. the high unemployment in the union, the concepts of a two-speed europe, that is, a better and a worse europe, are all your legacy. it's not easy to walk in jacques delors shoes, much easier to walk in jacques santer's sweatpants, except they weren't and they're not seven-mile shoes. but in conclusion, today we are in a parliament representing 25 countries, not 15. it's all thanks to you, mr. president.
mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen! the european commission, under mr prodi, will go down in history as the biggest enlargement in the union's history, the biggest and most important, because the union now includes countries that were once separated from it by the iron curtain. while the enlargement itself is a success for mr prodi's commission, the conditions under which it took place are hardly a success. the commission has imposed tough and unfair negotiating conditions on the applicant countries. the process of achieving full membership rights and of bridging development gaps will be long. the long-standing division between the old and the new union will cause problems for all of us. it's a shame we didn't take full advantage of this historic opportunity. it lacked political imagination, it lacked a vision of a europe of full solidarity. as a member from poland, i am concerned about some of the directions of change in agricultural policy. liberalisation, a move away from the protection of the eu's agricultural market, is hurting european agriculture, and most of all the farmers of the new union. polish farmers face doubly unequal competition. inequitable within the union, with several times lower subsidies, and unequal towards the world, to which the union is rapidly opening up. the fight against world poverty must not be at the expense of maintaining or even increasing poverty within the union. the sugar market reform proposed by the commission will bankrupt a large part of the european sugar industry and in poland could lead to a real disaster for farmers and producers. we, the people's deputies from poland, are not on the way with such reforms and such policies. it is good that the commission has resisted the pressure to reduce the eu budget. such a reduction could destroy the economic and, if necessary, political sense of enlargement. i congratulate mr. prodi on the mission accomplished.
mr president, i congratulate you on presiding over the european parliament. you are the right man in the right place. we are talking about the situation in the middle east, as commissioner paten, a nota bene dr honoris causa of one of the polish universities, was talking about a few months ago, a year ago, 15 years ago. maybe it's time to stop using the polite language of diplomacy and start using the language of hard facts. it's not that in the middle east, the truth lies somewhere in the middle, and both sides of the conflict are equally guilty. we have a new quality now. since the beginning of this year, nearly 150 hamas-made rockets have hit israeli cities. for a few years, these missiles have caused damage and panic, but now they kill, and they kill children. this is evidence of the escalation of the conflict and the palestinian side is specifically responsible for this today. what about us, whether we should be passive, whether we can, or perhaps we want to play the role of arbiter and set the government of israel and arafat like pieces on a chessboard. neither this, nor that, we're talking about grand plans, road maps, but maybe we should take a closer look at where the money from the european union is going, whether sometimes, against our intentions, that money is not indirectly serving those who are bringing death to the middle east. this was already discussed in the european parliament of the previous term. in closing, let's be generous, but let's see where our money goes.
mr president, mr solana's speech acknowledges europe's helplessness in the face of the israeli-palestinian conflict, but it is not just our helplessness either. it's also the helplessness of the united nations and the united states. mr. solana is asking, what do you do? what do we do in this situation?' and he gives the right answer: to stick to the road map, because the road map is also a road map for us, for the european union. okay, but i'm sure we should be more open-minded. it should be more flexible, it should be more adaptable to the changing political situation. in the middle east, our policy should also be more nuanced. if a serious project emerges, such as the unilateral withdrawal of israel from the gaza strip, it must be welcomed, and not only, to quote the council's communication, 'considered a significant step', but it must be considered what steps and what measures can be taken to support this project. if there is a will to continue to support palestinian autonomy, as you have said in your four-point programme, then we must consider, as we have just said, how, after the experience of partial waste of our money, we can ensure that the funds we are allocating to supporting the stabilization of palestinian autonomy are not wasted again. in other words, how to put the right controls on this aid. i was missing a regional approach in your speech, because the solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict is a matter for the whole region, what we call the wider or greater middle east. we've talked about this in previous debates, that this is about strengthening the peace process and stabilizing iraq. it's also about policy responses to iran and policy responses to libya. both in the fight against terrorism and in the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we have had successes, as in the case of libya, but also failures, as recently in the case of iran. we need to rationalize this policy. i would like to ask the president-in-office to make a statement on this matter.
madam president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the european parliament. i welcome the statements by both the high representative and commissioner patten on georgia. on 4 january 2004, the new georgian head of state, president saakashvili, was elected with a democratic mandate unprecedented in our geographical latitudes. he has serious tasks to perform - reform of the state, not just restoration of the territorial integrity of the state. this mandate of president saakashvili also represents the great hope of the georgian people, of the society of all georgia. as a representative of poland, i know very well how difficult it is to maintain such hope, and it is essential for carrying out such serious reforms as georgia is awaiting. i was particularly interested in commissioner patten's statement on the inclusion of the issue of support for georgia and president saakashvili's aspirations in bilateral talks with russia. i think that these talks should be very decisive on our part, because russia's position is the key issue to resolve the problems of georgia in the near future and to avoid a situation which we all agree, as is the case with our draft resolution, to define as a stalemate, despite all the efforts of the international community. we would like to see a little less pressure from russia and cooperation with the separatists both........
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, freedom is a criterion that should always be taken into account when we make any important decisions. it is the hunger for freedom that makes the european union what it is today, because freedom was the foundation of its existence. it was thanks to the hunger for freedom that the seven newly-accession countries, the countries that had been enslaved for half a century, first by the germans and then by the communists, were able to enter here, after half a century of slavery, into these institutions, and be full members of the european union. the greatest threat to freedom today is terrorism, followed by immigration. these are the dangers, but these are the challenges, how to overcome these problems, and so is immigration. another obvious threat to freedom is the increase in crime. i would like to draw particular attention to the threat to freedom that is posed by the intrusion of the state into areas of life that should not be accessible to the state, into the areas of private life. this is a very important issue because it's a great threat indeed to freedom. new technologies are a great threat because they allow us to control citizens to a much greater extent than was previously possible. the challenge for the european institutions, the challenge for all europeans, is to balance the desire to live in peace and security with the desire to live in freedom. i would like to ask whether some of those commissioners who voted against commissioner butiglioni were not acting by chance on the basis of the religious criterion, and therefore whether they were not infringing on a matter as important as religious freedom.
i need advice. thank you, chairman. as regards your last remark, i have also tried to do so as best i could and have ascertained in advance the time needed for this and the time given, which i have taken into account in my further agreements. i am truly sorry that the passage of time has gone wrong, but i cannot change that at this moment. so i do have to go. in any case, the dutch presidency will also be represented. i think it is appropriate, although it will not be my last meeting with mr vitorino, to express to him, also on behalf of the council, a special thanks for the cooperation between the council and the commission in this whole area. the european union has made great progress thanks to his efforts. it was not least because of his personal charm that compromises were reached in the council and his insight led to innovative solutions. i do think he has made a good commissioner for the union. mr president, there have been various speeches on the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building. there were many voices and it was said that these were steps towards a federal europe which would undermine freedom and democracy, because democracy comes from below. i myself come from a country where democracy was invented in the middle ages and took a long time to emerge. but one condition for democracy is that our communities can live in safety, which is what we're trying to achieve here. the cooperation between the countries of europe is about finding a new alternative to guarantee our citizens the freedom to exercise their rights and to live in safety. this freedom and security are threatened, not primarily by governments, but usually by fellow citizens. in a well-organised society, public authorities are the first guarantors of the freedoms and rights of citizens. of course, these authorities will have to be monitored and boundaries set, but the absence of a government is usually the best guarantee of chaos in which the rights of the citizen are the first victim. but when government action is motivated by fear, rights are often the first casualty. we are aware, however, that we are increasingly unable to provide such guarantees as individual countries, and this forces us to cooperate, while respecting the diversity and traditions that exist in this field. as i said, the most important freedoms that are being threatened are those that are being sacrificed to crimes against the life of their fellow men. terrorism has been mentioned in this context. i have already said that this is an important point at the moment, but we must not make the mistake of basing cooperation in this field within europe on the fear of terrorism. we must build on the added value of cooperation, on the real interests and needs of society. of course, in the short term, the fight against terrorism must be fought vigorously. in march, following the madrid attacks, the council drew up a long list of measures. the council has at one time, in a different capacity, adopted a directive and various measures on the protection of privacy, among other things. those rules shall also apply and be enforced within the union. then there is cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs on the one hand and wider cooperation within the union on the other. the two should not be kept apart as schizophrenics, so that we have to duplicate everything that has already been achieved in the european union in the field of justice and home affairs. i would like to refer to a number of comments made here on the development and future of asylum and immigration policy. this is certainly an important point and your committee representatives who were present know that the presidency is also seeking to make important progress on this point in the near future. the first step is inevitably to find a compromise and a basis which, at first sight, will be a minority. but it is precisely by laying that foundation at that level that it is then possible to go further with refinement. i have already indicated and i fully accept that the dutch presidency intends to reach a decision on this matter by qualified majority, precisely to make this possible. but that will only be possible if the first foundation has been laid with unanimity and we can build on that foundation. various things have been said here, including what would be decided at the informal council on north african refugee centres. i would like to point out that our first responsibility and our first priority is that people are still drowning in the mediterranean every day trying to reach europe. europe has regulated legal migration, but europe has not regulated illegal immigration, and that is what we are talking about here. the responsibility of the member states - which was also discussed at the informal council - is to find an answer to the question of how we can find a solution to this. in this context, the justice and home affairs council held talks with the high commissioner for refugees, mr lubbers, and commissioner vitorino also gave his views on the external dimension of asylum and migration policy. these three sources showed the concern to find a solution to the problems in the mediterranean in an effective and careful way. this was also acknowledged by the ministers present. it also became clear that many points could be linked to existing initiatives. there have been some comments here about the italian state and in any case the presidency has informed italy of the approach to the problem and asked how it is dealing with people who are applying for asylum. the presidency has also received the guarantee from the italian authorities that they will be admitted to the national asylum procedure and that the high commissioner will also be involved in its examination. however, if no asylum application is made, persons can be returned to their country of origin, or at least to a country of transit. if persons are picked up at sea, they may be returned to the country of transit. it is our responsibility to ensure that reception is possible in those countries of transit, which is also the responsibility of the high commissioner for refugees. that is not by definition a matter for national states. the question of the directive on minimum standards for the asylum procedure was also raised. the presidency will endeavour to complete the decision-making process under the dutch presidency. i have a few separate remarks, particularly on the comments by mr bourlanges on my comment on the court of justice. it is not that the extension of the jurisdiction of the court of justice to an area where no judges are at all will now bring judges into play. immigration and criminal law are areas in which legal protection has traditionally been quite extensive in all member states. so in that respect the court's function is primarily the uniform interpretation of provisions. i have indicated that when the union adopts decisions in the field of immigration and criminal law, this creates the need for a uniform interpretation. it is then the primary responsibility of the union to ensure that the interpretation of such provisions in procedures involving the freedom of individuals is carried out swiftly. otherwise, as the saying goes: "justice delayed is justice denied". that is the union's first responsibility and that is why i have pointed it out. as regards your comments on qualified majority voting, i have already indicated what the presidency is aiming at in any event. we shall have to wait and see what happens in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as you know, the european council decided on this last september and the dutch presidency will ensure that as soon as possible ...
i need advice. i have tried to be as brief as i should have been and had therefore naturally come to the end of my remarks in so far as the questions were addressed to the council. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. speaker, for protecting the rights of the mps. mr president, the member states which joined the european union in 2004 were the first to have to meet high standards in the protection of their external borders, and their efforts were very positively assessed by the european commission during the accession negotiations. as of 1 may 2004, 10 countries became participants in schengen cooperation. however, the lack of access to the schengen information system is a major obstacle to the full participation of the new states in the schengen joint action. this makes it difficult to implement mutually the treaty obligations on legal aid in criminal matters, e.g. the european arrest warrant, police cooperation, common immigration policy, which for example prevents the new member states from issuing a single schengen list, and most importantly, it unduly prolongs the period of controls at the internal borders of the union. this malady is not well received by most citizens of poland and other new countries. they find it difficult to understand why, after almost ten years of implementation of the preaccession strategy by the union and the candidate countries, it was not possible to prepare the information system for the addition of new users on 1 january 2004. in 2003, the european commission and the member states set the date for the second generation of the schengen information system to be ready at the end of 2006. the date now mentioned is 1 may 2007. it appears that the commission and the council should respect the original deadline of 31 december 2006 as the operational readiness date of the second generation schengen information system. by then, the integration of the new countries' it systems and the data transmissions from the old system to the new one should be completed. the european commission should provide the council with a positive report from the european union experts on the evaluation and assessment based on objective indicators of the eastern external border. i regret to see that the stereotype and myth of the unsatisfactory protection of the common borders by the new member states is still perpetuated in the press. it seems that a proper information policy by the commission would not only encourage the recognition of the efforts made by the new states, but also the appreciation of their positive effect. during his interview with our commission, professor butrione gave a high assessment of the state of preparations for the implementation of the second generation schengen information system at the eastern border of the european union, while committing himself to accelerating operational activities in this area. i hope that the commission and the council, when planning the future of the area of freedom, will be able to meet the challenge of ensuring that the european union's fundamental value of free movement of european citizens is implemented without any discrimination as soon as possible, because this would serve to ensure the greatest possible security and also to better counter terrorism. thank you, sir.
as i take over the proceedings, i would like to appeal once again to everyone to strictly observe the time limits. it's late, the list of speakers is long, and we have one more point to consider.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when i listen to these speeches today, when i hear the full satisfaction, the conviction of the greatness of the european union's achievements, i am terrified. what is there that is greater than equality, freedom, fraternity, a space of freedom, security and justice? but where is she, i ask? where is this justice, where are these equal rights, how can you not even provide the translation in committee, which is a treaty obligation to all states and members of this parliament. where is the justice, the ethics and the morality when you fight against child pornography on the internet and at the same time promote, in the name of so-called civil liberties, access to pornography in general. isn't that a split-self and a kind of schizophrenia? the european union, in my view, is at a crossroads at the moment. you're trying to build a house on quicksand. you have rejected the principles of civilized ethics, the principles of christian ethics, which for millennia have formed the foundation. in the name of this foundation, you are building a new one, which is law and so-called human rights. but when i hear the debate, even in my committee, which is also called the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and when i hear the need to fight online pedophile crime, and on the other hand, the rampage of all kinds of sexual deviations in the name of that very freedom, i ask myself, will such a building collapse? mr president, in the name of these principles, i would like to conclude by dedicating a parable by a polish poet who says: "whoever wants the spark of the blacksmith's devil to burn the power of the devil, he blasphemes the wisdom of eternity, this world is a great night". in the name of warning!
i would like to apologize for the lack of maltese translation, but this is due to the problem of the lack of interpreters, which is of course not an excuse and i hope that this situation will be corrected soon.
i would like to raise the issue of asylum policy in the context of the new member states. the enlargement of the european union in 2004 led to a large increase in asylum applications in the new member states. the un high commissioner for refugees, who recently visited poland, slovakia and hungary, forecasts that the growth momentum in these countries will continue for at least several years. for example, poland is now hosting the largest number of chechen refugees, following the escalation of the conflict in the north caucasus. since mid-september, the number has increased by several hundred percent. every day, about 50 people of chechen nationality cross poland's eastern border. these are mainly mothers with children, but a large group also includes children without any care. the work on a common asylum policy must be intensified, a joint funding mechanism based on solidarity between member states must and should be launched, as well as an organisational mechanism for the integration of persons recognised as refugees. the rapid establishment of an integrated border management system and a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders is also needed. it should start its work as soon as possible to harmonise standards for the protection of the external borders of the european union. given the longest land border of the european union, poland is the most appropriate place to locate the seat of the agency.
we have thus concluded our discussion of the report and i would like to ask commissioner vittorino to speak.
commission. mr president, first of all, with regard to members' remarks on the new generation of the schengen information system, i would reiterate that according to our initial planning, the commission is fully on time in its effort to guarantee that the new generation system will enter into force by 2007. we hope that the new member states will make maximum use of the schengen facility to prepare themselves for the important moment when internal border controls are abolished. my second remark is about the lampedusa situation. we recognise that the italian authorities are under enormous pressure, but we have been reassured by the italian government that all those who arrive at lampedusa asking for asylum are treated in accordance with international conventions, in particular the geneva convention. therefore, their requests for asylum have been analysed by the authorities in the field. i would emphasise that it is up to the united nations high commissioner for refugees to verify the situation there. thirdly, i should like to reiterate that the pilot project that the commission and the united nations high commissioner for refugees intend to develop in morocco, mauritania, algeria, tunisia and libya does not include anything about camps. there is confusion on this point: the aim of the project is to strengthen national asylum systems. it does have anything to do with camps. i share the views of several members of the house who have emphasised the need to guarantee that in the next financial perspectives there are sufficient financial tools to improve solidarity in the management of internal borders and in the management of migratory and asylum flows. i hope that we can count on the support of the house on the commission's proposal on this matter. finally, i would like very much to thank several members of the house for the very kind words that they addressed to me. i left this house as a member of parliament ten years ago, and i am now leaving as a member of the commission. goodness knows in what capacity i might come back! (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is mrs gill's report (a6-0013/2004) on amendment no 9 to the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004.
the list of speakers was therefore exhausted. i'm closing this meeting for the day. (the sitting was closed at 9.15 p.m.) the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0243 - c4-0210/97).
mr president, i am taking the floor on a matter of no less importance, a matter which affects millions of computer owners throughout the european union, as well as hundreds of thousands of european small and mediumsized businesses. it's about software patents. thirteen months ago, the european parliament stood up for europeans and european businesses. our parliament did not want to make a law that was a copy of american law. but the council, and the commission, have sided with the big corporations, not the citizens of the european countries. the matter will be before the european parliament shortly. what are we going to do together to prove, mr president, that our parliament will not be a hostage of the big computer companies, but the voice of europe's small and mediumsized businesses, a europe of citizens. for our constituents, this issue is perhaps no less important than the great political debates. it is also a question of the credibility of the authority of the european parliament.
in writing. i vote against a european parliament resolution on the procedures of ratification of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and a communication strategy for the said treaty no b6-0067|2004. ratification process is the excusive responsibility of member states. european union institutions by interfering in this process severely violate the subsidiary principle.
mr president, i would like to address an appeal to the european commission on a matter which has been causing concern for several months among polish citizens and residents of the other new member states of the european union. it's about stopping food exports to russia. the change in the export rules to russia was notified to poland and the other nine countries at the end of april this year, so russia's decision is directly linked to our accession to the european union. the russian inspectors are very discretionary and the producers in the former 15 countries know this. it is essential that the european commission negotiates this with moscow. every effort should be made to clarify the control criteria together so that they are more legible. the absence of assistance from the european commission or neutrality on this issue discriminates against new members in the internal relations of the union. i therefore call on the european commission to maintain the solidarity of the union in its internal relations and to help the new member states in this matter.
mr. president, i would like to ask you to respond to the dispute between the state-owned company polska żegluga morskia and the minister of treasury of the republic of poland in the context of the rules applicable in the territory of the european union. the ministry of treasury attempted to dismiss the director of the state-owned company polska żegluga morska in defiance of the sovereign decision of the company's self-governing bodies and announced the transformation of all state-owned companies in poland into state-owned companies. in addition, the director and the self-governing bodies of the soes were denied the right to appeal to the courts for an independent court to review the decisions of the ministry. do these actions by the ministry not constitute a breach of the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of the form of economic activity? in the present case, the discrimination of the form of the state-owned company against other possible forms of economic activity. furthermore, does the ministry's refusal to give the director and the company's management the right to a trial not constitute a breach of article 6 (2) of the treaty on european union and of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 1950? thank you, sir.
mr president, the debate has recently been on the so-called 'golden share' between the european commission and the german government, i.e. the possibility for the state to retain control of strategic companies. the german government was supported by the polish government in this matter. this is important, not least because a number of other members of the union, such as france, are not giving up their influence on the national and international economy. on the one hand, we must fully understand the reasoning of those who push for a free market, seeing in it an attempt to implement the lisbon strategy and the possibility of catching up with america. on the other hand, it is clear that a number of governments and nations, in supporting european integration, want to preserve their national interests in the economy. my proposal, mr president, is to have a debate on this subject in our parliament. let this important issue cease to be merely a ping-pong game between the commission and the individual countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is not a political body. france is a beautiful country, strasbourg is a beautiful city, wonderful people, interesting architecture, precious monuments. we're all happy to be here for four days once a month. nevertheless, i think our individual feelings should give way to the interests of the citizens of the nations of europe, whose votes have brought us here. none of these conditions justifies the european parliament's seat remaining in strasbourg, while all its agendas are located in brussels. there is no such rational and substantive premise. the european parliament in strasbourg is a luxury. the organisation of plenary sessions in this city consumes millions of euros a year. it could certainly be put to good use, for example by supporting the poorest regions of the european union more widely. it is time to put an end to this absurdity by abolishing the european parliament's seat in strasbourg.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest appreciation to commissioner buttiglione, who has for some time been the victim of a chauvinistic attack by the left wing of the european parliament and the whole of the left. commissioner, there are still people who think normally, like you. i would like to ask you to be positive and to speak the truth, because the truth cannot be shouted, especially in the european parliament, which is supposed to be the leading institution in building a building of truth, honesty, integrity and human rights. i ask, then, is it consistent with human rights to condemn someone for beliefs expressed honestly and publicly, and not to offend anyone? the commissioner, a large part - i am sure the majority - of the members of the european parliament are with you. we have every confidence in your spirit that you will make a great commissioner of the european commission.
mr. chairman, i wanted to protest against the discrimination against catholics. in accordance with the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms set out therein should be ensured without any discrimination. that is why i want to strongly protest both president barroso's behaviour towards catholics and the european commission's funding of the tent exhibition in schuman square in brussels, which together are a clear manifestation of discrimination against catholics, not only hurting their feelings but, above all, demoralizing young people by promoting a man without values, with a nature that seeks only provocation and financial success. is the image of the holy father in prayer, with men in a group, a symbol of europe's diversity, or is it a sign of dehumanization, degradation and a threat to civilization? is the european commission and those who reach the highest levels of government trying to build a better future on the ruins of sanctity by depriving europeans of good and beauty? shouldn't sexual contact be something that... (interruption by the president)
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following point: it has been almost six months since the enlargement of the european union to include 10 new member states. from then on, the new member states and the old 15 should form one common body and integration should be visible in many important areas. meanwhile, we have a clear delay in fully integrating the new members. i therefore think that we should seriously consider revising the transitional periods so that new countries are not blocked in their development and that the process of their full integration with the rest of the union is accelerated. this is particularly the case for transitional periods in the area of free movement of persons and free movement of services. these two areas are very important for a certain european integration, and for the development of entrepreneurship necessary for the development of national economies. we cannot stand by and watch service providers from the new member states being treated worse on the european market, facing more difficulties than those from the old 15. and in the area of free movement of people, we see that countries that have opened their labour markets after may 1, like the uk or sweden, don't experience... (interruption by the president)
mr. chairman, the facts are these: since the beginning of the year, oil prices have risen 65 percent to the magic $50 barrel. some analysts and economists predict that it could reach $70 or $80 a barrel in the coming months. the consequences of this are: huge cost increases in all areas, especially in transport, agriculture, and the areas you heard about today; further decline in economic growth, which is estimated in simple proportion: a rise in prices of $5 per barrel - a decline in economic growth of 0.3%; a strengthening of the dollar against the euro and the european union's currency, for countries with large imports, a boost to the balance of payments and finally a reduction in the european union's competitiveness, and a further departure from the objectives of the lisbon strategy. polish farmers are already enjoying their first subsidies and know that they will not spend a large part of them on farm development but, unfortunately, on covering the cost of rising fuel and fertilizer prices. the world didn't expect such a rise. the european union did not anticipate this when it planned its long-term policy of replacing natural fuels with alternative and renewable fuels. the 2000 programme must be changed and accelerated as quickly as the usa has done with biofuels, which today add 10% to petrol and produce 70 million tonnes of biofuels a year, or the german economy with electricity production. the green light should be given in particular to the production of biofuels, which, if increased, will reduce imports in a simple and quick way, improving the european union's balance of payments while increasing the number of jobs in rural areas, the development of the multifunctional agriculture thus promoted, or the profitability of agriculture, making it independent of the corset system of support from subsidies alone. it's really time to change our policies quickly from being dependent on price increases and imported oil, as well as excessive greenhouse gas emissions, and just go in the direction of environmental protection.
mr president, parliament has heard a few words of truth. mr buttiglione, the candidate for commissioner, reminded us all what marriage is, what the family is, what the social role of these institutions, sanctified by time and the experience of generations, is. we fully support what he said on this matter. his critics pose as speaking from a position of moral superiority. it's a fake. the moral high ground is with professor buttiglione. unfortunately, we will not be able to support him by voting. we are to vote on the whole commission, and there are 25 commissioners on this commission. support for one cannot overshadow our opposition to the other 24. the commission is appointed in a highly undemocratic manner. governments usually appoint people to the commission who have no chance of winning the support of voters in their own country, from among those who have been rejected because of their past activities. that's certainly how the polish candidate, mrs. danuta hübner, was nominated. we're evaluating her negatively. the commissioners-designate from the other post-communist countries probably look similar. in view of the attitude of the previous commission towards poland and the unfair conditions under which we were admitted to the union, which are very different from those which the german democratic republic received when it joined the union, we have every reason to have the most far-reaching reservations about the european commission as an institution. we can't support her. we're sorry, professor buttiglione, but our vote against this commission does not concern you.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that the far left has started in this chamber is the debate that europe does not need. europe and the commission need mr barroso to get to work today to solve the problems of millions of citizens of our continent from new and old member states. this ideological debate unashamedly waged by the far left in this chamber is an extremely dangerous precedent. if the commission is defeated, it will mean that europe has a berufsverbot for catholics. we can't agree to that. mr. president, you deserve our support and you will get it.
mr president, you deserve our support and you will get it. (applause from the right)
mr president, in july parliament endorsed mr barroso as president of the commission. three months have passed, the same barroso, the same parliament - nothing has changed. it's not president barroso who chooses the candidates for commissioners, it's the governments of the member states. if governments sometimes put forward controversial candidates, today, unfortunately, it is not the governments, but barroso himself who will have to eat the frog, although in our country frogs are a delicacy. but let's be honest, the vast majority of barroso's people have no objections. i take seriously the words of president barroso, who today promised us, the parliament, that if the situation demanded it, he would make changes in the composition of the commission during his term of office. to put it metaphorically, we must renew mr barroso's confidence cheque, but we must also be careful about what you do with it. mr barroso, i wish you the best of luck.
mr president, on behalf of the polish delegation to the group of the european people's party - european democrats, i would like to express my appreciation for the way in which you are carrying out your mission. we follow the lord's work, and we find it compelling and full of the strong leadership we need. we believe that the european commission, under your leadership, should place particular emphasis on three issues: completing enlargement, upholding the principle of solidarity and cohesion and developing the eastern dimension of the union. the first challenge will be to integrate the new member states into all the dimensions of european union policy. the enlargement of the institutions has been achieved, but the full rights and equal treatment of the new members still require much work and time. only then can we consider enlargement to be completed in a real sense, not just in an institutional sense. the second task is to make up the economic gap and to ensure socioeconomic cohesion in the union in the name of solidarity. your immediate task will be to convince the council that the increasing tasks and powers of the union need to be linked to the means necessary to carry them out in the financial perspective for 2007-13. you cannot have more europe for less money, those were your words in this house in july. we trust you to be true to them. the current extension is very cheap. but we cannot try to make it cheaper and thereby deprive the poorest countries of the union of the chance to catch up with other countries. your commission's plan should be to implement the prodigi commission's proposal for a budget of 1.24 of gross domestic product. and on that issue, we look to you to uphold the oath you took in this chamber. the third issue is the eastern dimension of the union, the new neighbourhood policy. we need a policy of generosity, not permissiveness. a policy that is demanding and effective. we're counting on your trust. we intend to support your commission along with professor buttiglione. thank you, sir.
mr president of the commission, your commission, as guardian of the treaties, would also have to continue the process of enlargement of the european union. in this process, it is necessary to assess whether the candidate country respects human rights, is transparent, and is free from corruption. i have serious doubts whether your commission will be able to do this well, and that is why i am asking whether the assessment of human rights in romania, bulgaria and perhaps turkey can be entrusted to a commissioner who has clearly shown that he does not understand, or does not want to understand, what the european human rights system is, of which we are so proud. mr. chairman, the second point. the creation of your commission is also a lesson for european democracy. a lesson that citizens across the european union are watching closely. and what message do they receive from the lord at this time? the message is that the european parliament's opinion is irrelevant. is that a good message? does it bring the european union closer to its citizens? is this a good message two days before the signing of the european constitution? mr barroso, please do not fight with the european parliament. listen to him.
we now proceed to the next item on the agenda. the agenda includes two reports on behalf of the committee on budgets on the draft general budget for 2005 as part of the joint debate. the first report by mr salvador garriga polledo (a6-0021/2004) on the draft general budget for 2005 (section iii) and the report by mrs anne elisabet jensen (a6-0020/2004) on the draft general budget for 2005 (sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii and viii) are attached. a number of speakers have signed up to debate these points and i would like to ask mr garriga polledo, the rapporteur, to speak.
on behalf of the group. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. there are two particularly important reasons why we consider the 2005 budget of the european union to be wrong and will vote against it. the first reason is formal and political. the draft budget for 2005 was prepared at a time when it was assumed that poland and the nine newly admitted countries would become members of the union, but it was neither consulted nor prepared with those countries. in polish political tradition, the principle is "nothing about us without us". no consultation means no equality and no respect for the partner. the second reason is of a substantive nature. there are two issues that should be the focus of the union's attention. the first is the process of enlargement with the addition of ten new countries, and the second is the weakening of the union's economic dynamism, especially in relation to south-east asia and the united states. the newly admitted countries are characterized by low levels of wealth, backward economic structures, lack of capital, very high unemployment. the accession of these countries to the european union should result in a change in the economic policy of the union so that the backwardness i have mentioned is eliminated as soon as possible. the draft budget for 2005 is not the answer to this challenge. it's only 1.03 percent of the country's gdp. budget expenditure is rising by little more than the amount of the contribution paid by the newly admitted countries. and yet, as in previous years, we can expect a budget surplus, i.e. no money from the structural funds, which would mean that the newly admitted countries, instead of receiving more from the budget, would be paying into it. i called for the 2004 budget surplus of eur 5470 million to be allocated to the modernisation fund for the newly admitted countries. that's not what happened. the structural funds will be increased, but not significantly. this is too low a rate, considering that the consumption levels of the newly admitted countries are often ten times lower. just over €1.4 billion is to be earmarked for direct aid to farmers in the newly admitted countries. in a situation such as that in poland, the union has imposed significant production volume restrictions and the aid may therefore not compensate for the losses. if the union is to overcome its problems, it must understand that the most efficient investment would be to invest in the newly admitted countries. otherwise economic and social problems throughout the union will come. that's not what we want. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group. mr. chairman, thank you very much. i also wanted to join in the vote of thanks to commissioner schreyer for her many years of work on the european union budget and to say on behalf of the uen group that we basically accept the strategy of parliament returning the amounts preferred in the budget by the commission and reduced by the council. of course, most of the uen group would like to see a more pronounced increase in these amounts, especially in category ii, but as the polish song says "if you don't have what you like, you like what you have". we welcome the increase in the amounts related to the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the information policy. at the same time, we stress that the information resources for referenda on the constitutional treaty cannot be spent only on the propagation of the treaty, but equally on critical messages about the treaty. we must respect the public opinion of our countries, which is very divided on this issue. we are pleased to see the reinstatement of the tacis and meda programmes, which are of particular interest to our group. we are concerned, however, about the lack of clarity in the budget committee's approach to our amendment on the prohibition of community aid for projects which could lead to the forced implementation of abortion, sterilisation and female circumcision in third countries. our amendment is about protecting human rights. if the right to choose is to be a right to choose and not a verbal abuse, then we call for support for this amendment. it's the fifth amendment. all this does not change the fact that the uen group in principle supports the draft budget for 2005 as drafted by the committee on budgets and will vote in favour of this draft at first reading, but at the same time we expect the budget of the european union to be larger in the coming years, which will allow the union to achieve the ambitious tasks it has set itself. especially in terms of accelerating or helping the development of the new member countries, whose development, accelerating their development, will serve the eu community as a whole.
mr. chairman, commissioner, i'm not sure what you're talking about. the committee on budgets, and now parliament as a whole, is faced with a very difficult task in determining its position on the 2005 draft budget. on the one hand, the margin of manoeuvre, the room for manoeuvre, is very limited, as is usual at the end of the financial perspective, when new tasks arise that require resources that were not foreseen before. and it is not about enlargement or cohesion, but above all about helping iraq, new tasks in the field of security and defence policy, or proliferating agencies. on the other hand, the newly formed parliament has a great need to reaffirm its priorities and its electoral promises, and the position it has developed in previous years, which is the same as democratic control over financial flows in the european union. and in the face of this challenge, the traditional strategy, i.e. the strategy of restoring the commission's proposals to the traditional and very mechanical cuts by the council, was not enough this time. the vote in the committee on budgets shows the offensive strategy proposed by mr garriga, namely the strategy of parliament's clarity and of creating a space for manoeuvre before the second round, before the second reading, in order to defend the traditional priorities, those mentioned many times today in the debate, namely the lisbon strategy, the information policy, support for rural development, which is not necessarily the creation of agricultural jobs, or the fight against terrorism. this time, this left little room for new initiatives from the new member states, and this should change in the coming years. this strategy has, it should be stressed, received strong support from various forces at the level of the committee on budgets, but the real test of such inter-party solidarity in the face of the next rounds of this game for the 2005 budget will come on thursday in the vote. i hope that, as a member of parliament from the cradle of solidarity, that is, from gdańsk, the reason for this is obvious. the strong position of parliament this time has a major impact not only on annual budgets in the future but also on the financial perspective for 2007-13. as for the words of thanks, which are so many again today, to commissioner schreyer, another opportunity will present itself in the form of our last joint meeting of the committee on budgets, which will begin shortly. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you very much, mrs. xenogiannakopoulou. he was the last speaker in the debate. and that concludes our debate. the vote will take place on thursday. at this point, we adjourn and resume question time at 6:00. thank you, sir.
the commission. this question can only be speculative today. the financial perspective presented by the prodi commission, which runs until 2013, does not provide for financial resources for a possible accession of turkey. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new financial perspective. it is absolutely impossible to make any concrete statements about this today, because turkey cannot be expected to join the union for a period of 12 to 15 years. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the budget of the european union may change very much during this period, we do not know. and during this period, expenditure on relevant policies may also change. let me say to you, as a matter of principle, that the treaty of accession can also regulate what it deems necessary to regulate in terms of costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you very much, madam president. commissioner, i take this opportunity to thank you for your personal contribution to the recent enlargement of the union, which also concerns my country, poland. thank you for the very important information that turkey's enlargement could happen as early as 2019 and not earlier. i have a further question, commissioner: do you think that the european union's financial resources will be used more to level the playing field of the turkish regions compared with the european regions, or will they rather be used to support turkish agriculture?
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the communication strategy of the european union is being developed and everyone agrees that both past and present forms of communication are inadequate or even inappropriate. commissioner verheugen spoke about this today. in the member states of the union and beyond, the only position presented is that of a single centralised option for building a common future for europe. however, there are many meps who are sceptical about this model of integration, which is just one of many possible models. a significant group of meps oppose, for example, the accession of turkey to the union, and use rational arguments in doing so. in seeking the formula for effective european communication, i urge you to take into account attitudes and concepts which are currently in the minority, but whose voice is increasingly heard and equally important. only in this way will democracy and pluralism be respected in the european parliament, in the member states of the union and in the candidate countries. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group. thank you, mr. chairman. we have heard a lot about the lisbon strategy here, and we would naturally like the lisbon strategy to pass the test. but for the lisbon strategy to pass the test, we cannot treat it as some magic formula which will solve all our problems by itself. if we hear minister verheugen say that europe must be competitive - and we agree that it must be competitive with other regions of the world - and at the same time we hear people say that we must build a european social model, which i believe is a welfare state, a state which deprives the citizen of initiative by providing him with everything the state considers necessary, then we must say to ourselves: either the social model is welfare-oriented or it is competitive with america. we cannot build europe's economic success otherwise. if we hear at the same time, for example, minister nikolaï saying that there will be consultations with employers, employees and trade unions, then we must say that there is something too much here. because i think employers and employees are enough. because if it turns out that there have to be employers and unions, it seems that no one will come to an agreement. if we are talking about a common legal area, we must realize that this common legal area cannot go beyond the legal framework which has been established in the existing european treaties. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. and here, politics, for example, in the darfur issue is incredibly important. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. at the eu summit in november, the german chancellor is expected to propose full liberalisation of the eu energy market by 2007, the creation of a european financial market supervision and the harmonisation of financial trading rules in the twenty-five. schröder's proposal also includes the consolidation of the european arms market. in this context, i would like to recall the french proverb, "he who takes too much, squeezes badly". maybe it's better to have smaller plans, but more realistic ones. but what is really worrying is the proposal by chancellor schröder to harmonise the tax base for companies with limited liability in the union. the project, which was revealed in yesterday's handelsblatt newspaper, is expected to be completed in 2006. as a consequence, a union taxation loophole, modelled on vat, is to be introduced in this area. does this really have much to do with one of the flags of the european union, with competitiveness? no, i'm not going. it is in line with the recent proposals of french finance minister nicolas sarkozy, whose implementation would hit the economies of the new union particularly hard. we're not gonna give you permission to do that.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. the lisbon strategy is the key issue. today we acknowledge the inadequate progress of this strategy. it should be remembered that the objectives and objectives of the lisbon strategy did not take account of and make proper use of the enlargement of the european union as a development impulse. there are probably too many priorities. today, lack of progress in implementation, neglect of key economic reforms have led to a slowdown in growth, and some governments want to share their problems with others by proposing, for example, tax uniformity or initiatives to support european champions instead of the most important, small and medium-sized enterprises. the only thing that can happen is that we all lose this race. how can we improve? first, to reduce the lisbon priorities to the bare minimum and to make them key growth priorities. what are your priorities? first, the completion of the single market. this concerns, for example, the services market, discrepancies between government declarations and actions, e.g. restrictions on the quota for polish service companies on the german market, even a deterioration compared to the situation before 1 may 2004. secondly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially simplification of the law. third, modernisation of the labour market: to win the competitive battle, workers must be mobile. we assume that after 1 may 2006, two years after enlargement, there should be no restrictions on the movement of people within the european union. fourthly, the seventh framework programme of the european union should abolish the de facto preferences for research centres from the fifteen countries compared to the new ten. and fifth, one of the instruments for increasing the union's competitiveness should be the effective implementation of cohesion policy, taking into account the new development impulse from the new ten. finally, the role of the european commission should be increased, including accountability of governments by the european commission for the effectiveness of actions. finally, the european parliament should not only be informed but also have an influence on strategy decisions, which will allow the consensus to be transferred to the national level. thank you, sir.
this is a formal request, mr. chairman. on behalf of the league of polish families, i am formally requesting the european parliament to dissolve itself. parliament has become a hostage to the homosexual lobby of europe. it's an inefficient road and an unproductive institution.
mr. chairman, mr. chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen. in my country, there is a saying that a great polish politician is one who never compromises, and a good american statesman is one who always finds a compromise. if we translated this anecdote, if we took it seriously, and translated it into the european parliament, then president barroso would have made a great career in america, and many outstanding politicians and speakers in the european parliament would have conquered the political scene in my country. i suggest to mr barroso's critics that they not forget that the decisions on who sits on the european commission are made by the governments of the member states. the margin of manoeuvre that president barroso has is small, and let us be frank, it will always be small with this commission's election structure. if we want to say that the role of national governments is too big in this process, then we must say it clearly. i don't think so. i don't think that way. if the commission is to have a foothold in the member states, it must be elected to a large extent by national authorities, even if this sometimes prolongs the decision-making process. we have great respect for all those who have raised objections to individual commissioners-designate, and many of us have had some doubts about some of them. but the voting procedure is this and not that, and we vote for the whole commission without having the possibility of an individual vote. it has its ups and downs. the ball is now in the court of the president of the european commission and of the member states. but let this decision-making process not be prolonged, europe needs a new commission, just as europe needs a strong european parliament. and today, right now, the european parliament is proving its strength. i am sure that we all share this awareness, both those who would vote for president barroso and his commission and those who would vote against. it would be good if the heated debate we are witnessing and participating in did not lead to a permanent division within our parliament. even when we're arguing, let's remember what should unite us, not just what can divide us. i would like to end by paying tribute to president barroso. you've had a difficult life, you've undertaken a difficult mission. and i would like to say, especially in these difficult times, that i appreciate your efforts and the character you have shown. i believe we'll soon be able to congratulate you on your political success. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, on a point of order under rule 172 i have a correction to make to yesterday's minutes. in item 3 there is some confusion over a name. the second name in section 2 – 'from members' – should be wojciech wierzejski, not 'wojciechowski janusz czesław'. the first name was confused with the surname. i ask that the minutes be corrected in this regard.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i wanted to say this, mr minister, because i remember you as the minister for european integration of the french republic. i have a reservation and a very important point to make about yesterday's minutes, which are one-minute speeches. my speech on the 'golden deal' and the dispute between the european commission and the german and polish governments was attributed to a different member, mr jałowiecki of the ppe-de group. i would therefore ask for a correction here, because it was certainly not mr jałowiecki who said that, it was i. i also have a complaint about the one-minute speaker list - my name is not on it at all. i'm a modest man and i don't think it's caused any great damage to my person, but nevertheless, for the sake of accuracy, i wanted to correct it.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. i hope that the commission's latest communication and today's debate in the european parliament will usher in a new era in relations between the union and india. the european union, in implementing the lisbon strategy, which has forced us to approach the us economy, which is moving at a crazy pace, in an unrealistic, in my view, time, needs the help of its partner and friend in the coming years. could that partner be russia or china for the next 20, 50 years? that seems unlikely. those who have lived and worked in these countries know their policies and development plans better than i do, and they confirm my words. for many years now, we have been receiving clear declarations from india that we are not only closer to each other economically and in terms of investment, but also closer to each other politically and globally. today is the perfect moment for the new, enlarged, oxygenated european union of 450 million new countries to join the indian economy of over a billion people in a new alliance that we so badly need - an alliance that includes a quarter of the world's population. it's in our interest to engage with a country where 50% of the population is under 20 years old. gdp growth has averaged 7% over the last few years, and the level of many fields of science and industry, such as biotechnology, bio-information, electronics, space and defence, has put india at the forefront of the world. we have a lot to do, not only in the fields of economy, investment, technological exchange and building civil society, but also in the joint reconstruction of old, not always well-functioning international organizations, such as the united nations. the council statement and the european parliament recommendation adopted today must now be considered in the light of the following... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the group. mr. president, the recent events in belarus have been largely watched because of the elections taking place there, but they have been overshadowed by the referendum that is supposed to change the constitution and allow mr. lukashenko to hold power in this country for life. this referendum was held without any external control. president lukashenko has not allowed observers to check this referendum, which is so important to him. and its weight was because it was much harder to counterfeit, because to have legal weight it required not only a large turnout, but also more than half of the voting power to support the proposed solutions. according to independent studies conducted under the auspices of gallup, this requirement has not been met. and therefore, although there were no independent observers, there are good reasons not to recognize this referendum, and therefore not to recognize mr. lukashenko's right to run for re-election as president. as far as european union policy is concerned, i think it's worth noting here that the chance of any sanctions having an effect is relatively small. belarus is moving towards self-isolation, towards a country that completely ignores the influence of outside countries, and therefore also from an economic point of view the result of these actions may be very limited. the promise of aid and the "cooperation with belarus" program will also be limited, as president lukashenko will treat it as a poisoned chalice. so what's left? what remains is what was discussed here, the development of civil society, but not only in belarus - this can be difficult - but also using the possibilities offered by today's technology, radio and television, which can be the transmitter of certain values, certain attitudes in belarus, although they can be located outside the borders of belarus, as the united states proposes. and by the way, lastly, it might be good if this kind of action by the european union were somehow synchronized and coordinated with the actions of the united states announced in recent decisions of the congress and the president. thank you, sir.
mr president, there is no doubt that human rights are being violated in belarus, that the basic standards of democracy are not being respected, that minorities, especially the polish minority, are being discriminated against, and that this situation is not normal, it does not meet our expectations as regards the standards of a democratic state. but what we said at the last meeting as the independence and democracy group: we, the members of the league of polish families, deny the european parliament the right to interfere in the foreign policy of other countries, because the european parliament does not have such competence. the european parliament should be minding its own business, and it is not in its competence to judge standards in other countries, especially outside the european union. and you can draw an analogy here with turkey, which has been a lot of debate lately. turkey - a country that occupies half of cyprus, that has no diplomatic relations with greece and armenia, that persecutes the kurdish minority, that has yet to explain the genocide of the armenian people - is being considered as a potential member of the european union. belarus, a country which does not persecute minorities in such a massive way as turkey does, and which does not pursue any hostile policy towards other nations, a belarus which wants to open up its foreign policy and cooperation with other countries, is today condemned by us, and turkey is recognised as a country which could belong to the european union. a little bit, but we should apply similar standards to one country and to the other. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the elections and referendum in belarus were conducted in violation of all the principles of the rule of law and democracy. we all know what happened. the council, the commission and individual members have said so. but let's be honest: this is also the moment of defeat for the european union's policy towards belarus. this is also a very graphic example of what can happen to ukraine if we do not make fundamental reforms in the neighbourhood policy towards that country. the history of belarus after 1996 is a very frightening example of what can happen in this region, especially in ukraine. what can we do today? first of all, make a big change. first of all, we cannot recognize this election or this referendum - no country in the european union should do that. secondly, we need to extend the list of people we do not want to see in european countries - people from the circles of belarusian power. thirdly, we must raise this issue at the eu-russia summits. russia, that's the country that recognized this election, and that's the country that's the political patron of this political experiment in the heart of europe. second, we have to invest in society, we have to make a big investment in civil society. and that requires a separate fund, i think, to support freedom and democracy. we must have the courage and the means to establish an independent radio station for the belarusians. we must have the means to allow belarusian intellectuals, who are currently being repressed in their own country, to study all over europe and build the future of this country, when the opportunity arises, when belarus regains its independence. it will be an investment in our common european future, which i believe deeply in. if we don't make that investment, of course the united states will make it by building kindness in another central and eastern european country. i would be very pleased, but i know that many european politicians will not be pleased with this turn of events. thank you very much.
mr president, there is no doubt that the elections and the referendum in belarus were not democratic, that they were not free, and that they were not fair. if mr. maštálka and mr. lang don't see it, it means they don't want to see it. i was part of an observation mission during those elections and i was able to see firsthand how the electoral process was conducted. this procedure did not ensure the democratic character of the elections and the referendum, and electoral practice was often not in accordance with this law. this should lead us to two very important conclusions. first, the belarusian parliament has no democratic legitimacy to represent the belarusian people. secondly, and this is something we often forget, president alexander lukashenko has no democratic legitimacy to run for the presidency in 2006, for a third term, or perhaps for another, another term. this first proposal has been incorporated into a resolution which will, i hope, be adopted by an overwhelming majority in the european parliament. that second request is in the amendments. what is to be done? we have already discussed the need to rethink our policy towards belarus. the presidency and the commission have both made a very important contribution to the debate: the principle of supporting society. our european policy towards belarus should be guided by the principle of supporting the people and isolating the authorities, as long as they are not democratic. it is imperative to create alternative sources of information for the belarusian people. radio station in the first place, television station in the second place located in poland or lithuania. secondly, to organize a wide-ranging scholarship program for belarusian youth and students who want to study in one of the european union member states, and a support program for those universities that want to accept them. the very important thing is - and i will end here - the issue that was not discussed here: the unilateral abolition of visas, visa fees for belarusians by the member states of the european union. it would be a very important gesture showing that the european union is open to the belarusian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. we have spoken a great deal in this parliament, and rightly so, about sudan, but perhaps not enough about belarus, not enough about the east. not enough, since lukashenko and the belarusian authorities are doing nothing about the european union's position. perhaps because so far we have only whispered in defence of human rights and democracy in belarus, and here we need not whisper but a loud and resolute voice, perhaps even a shout, even if in defence of national minorities in belarus, including the numerous polish national minority. and finally, we have to say this, we're not talking about some distant african or asian country where a local tyrant is violating democracy. we are talking about the european union's nearest neighbour, closer to strasbourg or brussels than some regions of some of the european union's member states. should freedom of the media or freedom of elections, the bread and butter of europe, be words from the dictionary of foreign words in belarus? the short answer is no. but we can't just talk about it, it's time to act. boycott lukashenko, but do not boycott the belarusian society, organizations and youth.
the group names. mr. president, there have been numerous reports of violations of campaign rules. but i'd like to highlight a few new and, i would say, original elements that are coming into play in this campaign. the first is appearing on the electoral lists of fictitious candidates. there are 23 candidates running for the office of president of ukraine. there are really only a few serious candidates for this position. most of the others are written in that character, but their entire involvement in the campaign is to say that although they are running, the best candidate is actually someone else. and their involvement is also reflected in the fact that their representatives on the electoral committees are practically representatives of a completely different candidate. the second element that has emerged recently, and that could be a threat - although perhaps the threat has diminished a bit at the moment - is the numerous constituencies outside the territory of ukraine. the reason for the establishment of these constituencies is the existence of a large ukrainian minority in russia. well, according to statistics, there are several million people among these ukrainian residents in russia. these constituencies, which will be located in russia, will be under the control of the candidates only - officially. they'll be outside of any international control, and the number of votes that may appear there could have a bearing on who gets elected. and finally, there's a third element to this campaign, and that is the very clear russian commitment to one candidate. russia, which is so allergic to any criticism related to, for example, the conduct of election campaigns in belarus and other countries, saying that it is interfering in the affairs of another country, has absolutely no inhibitions in this particular case. and the additional threat that comes with that is the threat of what's called a forceful solution. i just came back from ukraine, where i've been talking to a lot of people, and these kinds of concerns are very common there, and you have to be aware that this kind of threat can occur. thank you, sir.
the group names. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. the election campaign in ukraine is coming to an end, the campaign before the first round. many international organizations have raised a number of objections to the campaign itself, as my predecessors have already said, and these were very important comments. it's hard to say that the situation in ukraine resembles belarus. that would be an extreme statement. but both countries have something in common: they share russia's strategic interests, and also in the election campaign in ukraine this interest was evident, both during the sochi summit in july this year, on july 26, and later, during the visit of president putin. we know that russia has an interest in maintaining a certain power structure in ukraine. the candidate of this system, the current prime minister, viktor yanukovych, has much better access to the media, better ability to contact his voters. it's important that we have a dialogue with our key partner in ukraine, which is russia. this issue should be discussed both in the framework of the pca and at the union-russia summit. i would like to make a few comments on the remarks made by commissioner verheugen. it is true that ukraine does not yet fully meet the criteria of a democratic state, but we know that there is no better prospect for such fulfillment than the prospect of membership of the union.
mr president, ukraine faces two development perspectives before the upcoming presidential elections: the european perspective and the post-soviet perspective. the first perspective is that of democratic standards, the rule of law, a market economy and accelerated political integration into the structures of the european union. the second, post-soviet, perspective is the danger of perpetuating the current political and economic model. what can we do to strengthen the first perspective and weaken the second? probably not much, but, within the limits of the possibilities, at this moment, it is certainly necessary to closely monitor the voting process and the electoral campaign between the first and second rounds of the presidential elections, because the electoral campaign in this period will be the most dramatic. and we have to respond. we as the european parliament should adopt a resolution after the presidential elections, and then a report which also talks about what should be changed in european policy towards ukraine. secondly, we should be prepared and we should refrain from adopting an action plan for ukraine by the european union, and specifically by the commission. it is a good thing that the european commission did not approve the action plan yesterday, because yushchenko's victory will allow us to do more, to offer ukraine more and to engage in supporting democratic change in that country. yanukovych's victory in turn will allow us to accept the current version, but also to look at what the new president, if yanukovych wins, will do in the first days after the election victory. in the event of yushchenko's victory, we must be prepared to mobilize large additional funds to support ukraine's transformation, and now we should send a clear message that we are ready. and after the elections, we should quickly organize a donor conference, a bit like the conference in georgia, or for georgia, which allowed the european union to engage in supporting the transformation in that country. we must remember that there is no stable europe without a strong, democratic and independent ukraine.
mr president, mr verheugen has described what is happening in ukraine very well, because he has used the colours of grey. we often use white colors, as the ukrainian authorities like to say, or black colors, as the opposition says. everything is either wrong or right. everything in ukraine is either a little good or a little bad. i'll be leading a parliamentary observation mission, and i can promise you we're going there with a good message. we want to help the ukrainian people build democracy and abide by the rules. we're not going to vote for anybody, we're going to watch the election. we want these european standards to reach the ukrainian society - that is the purpose of our trip. we must remember that there will be no revolution in this ukrainian election. there is no mood among the ukrainian people that can be called a mood of expectation of revolutionary change. i don't believe that yushchenko, if he wins, will be the bearer of revolutionary change, nor that yanukovych, if he wins, will be the alter ego of president kuchma. you have to ask yourself: what does ukraine look like in 2004? how is it different from other countries of the former soviet union? you said here that there is a real political struggle. where else in that region is there a real political struggle? a month before the election in ukraine, we don't know who will be president, and in russia we already knew. if there is a real opposition, if there is a real alternative, then this is the achievement of the last few years. and this is also the achievement of the european union and the countries that have supported this opposition. but let us remember that even the victory of a non-opposition representative does not mean a setback in relations with the european union, it simply creates new challenges. one thing to keep in mind is the unprecedented influence of russia, which is happening for the first time on this scale. in dealing with ukraine, you need patience and consistency, and that takes time.
mr president, when i listen to commissioner verheugen and the representatives of western europe on ukraine, i get the strange impression that you have no idea what country you are talking about. this is a country that 12 years ago, only 12 years ago, gained its independence. for centuries it was under someone's occupation; for centuries the ukrainian language was eradicated from this country. this country will not rise up and become democratic and european in the western sense of the word in twelve years - your countries have been doing this for centuries. and that's just something to understand. i therefore believe that the european union cannot afford to be a passive observer of what is happening in a country of 50 million on the eastern border of the european union. he can't afford to. whatever the outcome of the elections, we need a clear programme, a programme that supports pro-european and pro-democratic forces, that helps the democratic process in ukraine, a programme that is aimed at young people and that supports economic exchanges, economic promotion, with the appropriate financial resources, and i expect the european union to propose such a programme. the programme, as mrs schroedter said, is addressed primarily to the public, not to the ukrainian authorities. we all need that. there's nothing worse than watching with indifference as a small, weak child fails to cope. i think we should be more involved. the elections are not fully democratic, but we should not make future aid dependent on the elections and the results of the elections.
mr president, does europe see what is happening in ukraine? opposition candidate viktor yushchenko is constantly attacked by the media, and he is not allowed on state radio and television. opposition rallies are disrupted by provocateurs, journalists intimidated. but that's not the worst part. such an attempt would be a young ukrainian democracy able to handle, but it will not be able to do so if those who are destroying it receive support from outside, from russia. president putin is clearly backing yanukovych. his current visit, his stay in kiev in the last days of the election campaign, is an obvious interference in the internal affairs of ukraine, it resembles a tsarist visit to a subordinate governorate. moreover, the announcement of the creation of 45 electoral commissions for ukrainians living in russia casts doubt on the credibility of the election results. but ukraine is no exception: russia has not responded to the brutal breach of democracy by the belarusian regime; it has not responded to the repeated calls of the european parliament and the council of europe to find political solutions to the bloody conflict in chechnya. poland has always strongly supported ukraine's aspirations to join the western community of european states and will continue to work intensively towards this. let me be clear: ukraine is a country of strategic importance for western europe in terms of economic, security and geopolitical stability on the continent. if the european commission has no doubts about the validity of turkey's recommendation, then a "yes" for ukraine is a matter of time. let's do everything we can to make that time as short as possible. the first step should be to give russia a red light. i therefore call on us not to allow the question of the elections in ukraine to be silenced by the member states at the next eu-russia summit on 11 november. i call on you to take every step in the next two weeks, which are crucial for ukraine, to stop russia from strengthening the autocratic tendencies of its neighbors. i would appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the commissioner. we cannot tolerate the building of a new iron curtain.
the council, the president of the council, in a concrete direct response to the specific question, i can inform the honourable member that in the cases he has described, such complaints can be addressed to the commission.
i need advice. mr president, thank you again for the question. the criteria for eu membership were, as you know, set by the european council at its meeting in copenhagen in june 1993. they include political criteria requiring that a candidate country has stable institutions which, as i have just said, guarantee democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. in december this year, the european council will decide whether to open negotiations with turkey on the basis of the report and the commission's recommendations of 6 october 2004. in reply to mr papadimoulis' previous question, we have already referred to the commission's recommendation and the conditions under which it recommends the opening of negotiations. i think i have already given some further details on this in my answer to the three combined questions, mr president.
mr. president, i would like to ask a question with regard to the situation that will arise after the signing of the draft constitutional treaty by the representatives of the governments this month. during the debate on the constitutional treaty, there was a lot of talk about protecting the secular nature of the european union, and there was a discussion about the preamble. will turkey's membership of the conference of islamic states be compatible with the talks and future membership of the european union? should not this condition, which was put forward during the discussions on the constitutional treaty, also have been presented in a very specific way to the negotiators on the turkish side?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the european union has led to a significant increase in the number of people living in poverty. statistics tell us that of the 450 million inhabitants of the world, more than 65 million are living in poverty or in conditions of deprivation that violate their human dignity. especially in the countries that have recently joined the european union, especially in my homeland, poland, the problem has been exacerbated by the decline in production, the rise in unemployment and the economic expansion of the rich countries. in my view, enlargement of the union cannot be considered a success if it comes at the cost of enormous suffering, deprivation and injustice, with growing inequalities between rich and poor. poverty, when it becomes misery, becomes a threat to peace. "if you want peace, go to the poor", pope john paul ii reminds us. the most troubling problems facing poor countries are not just debt, but lack of access to education and health care, as well as mental illness, depression, suicide, addiction, various diseases, forced prostitution of women and children, even human trafficking, and migration, which threatens the very existence of the family, that is, society as a whole. stressful working conditions and exploitation of workers add to the uncertainty of tomorrow. poverty particularly affects people living in rural areas, the unemployed, the disabled, the sick, most of whom are children and women who should be particularly protected because they are raising a young generation. it is women, who are not only responsible for housework but also for earning a living, who bear the brunt of the effects of the transformation, including in my country. in poland, poverty is spreading. women do two-thirds of the world's work, reportedly earn less than five percent of the world's income, and own less than one percent of the world's property. it is therefore necessary to consider whether the illusory and superficial increase in the percentage of women in governing bodies will compensate for these injustices; whether the community's standard slogans of democracy and equality of rights, equal opportunities, should not be replaced by respect for moral principles and the introduction of changes in economic mechanisms to guarantee a more equal distribution of goods, together with concrete actions of active assistance and care for those who need it. mature looking is looking deeply, or the material poverty of millions will be nothing compared with the spiritual poverty of the world's powerful.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. this is an important debate, and it's not just about the indisputable fact that iran is a country of gross human rights violations, a country of fundamentalists. it's also a debate where we have to say, quite frankly, if we're going to take progress to other countries, to countries outside the european union, we have to remember two things. first, to introduce equality of opportunity and equality before the law in the european union itself - and here, to put it mildly, we are still a long way off - would give us the moral right to instruct others. second, as the medical saying goes, do no harm. it is easy to pass a resolution, but it is difficult to deny facts which are unacceptable when it comes to the european value system we take for granted. and we have to remember that the european value system and the value system that is in iran -- the value system that is associated with the religion there -- are two worlds that don't fit together. any shortcut to reconstructing this system can lead to disruption, where the right goal will be the path to even greater drama in the societies there. i'm convinced that our intentions are right. we are not able to improve the living conditions of the iranian people by condemning and isolating them in any way. the only way forward is the way of evolution. any shortcut must lead to tensions, which will be accompanied by an even greater closure of that system and that regime. and our actual influence on what's going on inside iran is incredibly limited. when we talk about human rights, it is also worth showing the other side of the coin here in the centre, in the heart of europe. because the value system on which european civilization, european culture, latin culture was built, is being rejected here today. it is also a shortcut where all nations, all countries that are members of the european union, are forced, even today, to accept the models imposed by the minority as the only politically correct ones. it is also an action which, if unnecessarily cut short, must lead to tensions, and these tensions may become one of the key reasons why the european union will not be able to provide a real, solid foundation for the building you want to build. so i caution you, in conclusion, against condemning and instructing others when you are not yet able to build order in your own backyard.
mr. president, we're not just talking about iran's internal affairs, we're talking about a country that is finishing work on a nuclear bomb, that is finishing work on launchers that these nuclear bombs can carry to israel and to american bases, and that threatens a trans-regional conflict. what is the picture of modern iran? here we have the whole mosaic: the sentencing of teenage girls to death, as my esteemed predecessors have spoken of, public executions, stoning. it is not a question of a european value system, mr ambassador, it is a question of certain human values. we hear about executions every day, as if we were reading the news of car accidents in europe. specific figures: 22 executions in october, 120 executions in the first half of the year. behind these numbers are human tragedies, statistics may not fully show. this situation is worsening because there is a growing voice in iran from the hard-line community. if we are talking about persecution, let us also talk about this aspect which was not mentioned here, which my honourable predecessor did not mention, although i am very surprised. i think about the persecution of religious minorities, the persecution of christians. facts: 80 christians arrested in tehran on 9/11. i wish the ambassador had noticed. we're talking about a situation that is a never ending story. in this situation, mr meijer is absolutely right when he says that putting a terrorist organization like the people's mujahideen organization on the list is a misunderstanding because these are the people who are fighting this regime. the pressure of the european parliament is needed and great credit to the members of this parliament who are steering and monitoring this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise again what seems to be a very important point, namely that, in our opinion and in accordance with the legal expertise we have, the european parliament has allowed the european commission to operate without a legal basis since 1 november, that is to say, the european commission has been operating illegally. this means that all legal, formal and other administrative decisions taken by the european commission can be appealed and overturned. this situation cannot continue. mr president, i think it is necessary to establish a legal framework which would in any way legally and lawfully define the action of parliament in a situation where it is unable to appoint a european commission.
mr. chairman, on october 8th, the east prussian peasant congress was held. there are 21 comrades' organizations in germany - these are openly anti-polish and anti-czech organizations. according to the german law of 1953, every german is expelled from the territories belonging before 1914 to the reich or the habsburg monarchy. exiled status is hereditary. the people are demanding the repeal of the laws that ended world war ii. that's what the nazis did when they denied the treaty of versailles. the statute of the east prussian landtag demands that poland be stripped of part of its territory. they're treating the polish authorities like temporary. the german government subsidizes them, and chancellor schröder and bavarian prime minister stoiber have been guests at their conventions. the records of the waffen-ss marches are sold at the rallies. how is it possible that germany, being a member of the european union, supports and allows the revisionist organizations that call for war to operate legally? the german beast is awakening again, and the specter of hitler is haunting europe. i ask the european parliament to take up this matter.
ladies and gentlemen, our warnings about the dangerous direction of the european union are being confirmed. we are witnessing the emergence of a new totalitarian system that disregards natural law, the rights of nations, the rights of families, the right of every human being to live. the dreams and visions of a europe of solidarity, democracy, freedom and support for the weak will be fulfilled. you have failed this union. the reality is chaos and moral relativism, economic crisis, unemployment, growing social discontent, jungle laws behind the facade of democracy, the division into category a and b states. we are being funded by a new superstate based on lies and a delusional ideology from previous totalitarian systems. it can't be otherwise when you've rejected god and taken his place. we poles do not want such a europe and we call to other nations: wake up all people of good will, especially those who declare their christianity! they spit in your face, and you keep quiet, making rotten compromises. you have sacrificed professor buttiglione! you're agreeing to a captivating constitution. we will not accept such a dictatorship and barbaric order. we want to help the lost and wounded minorities, but we will not accept their pernicious domination. the people of europe have the right to freedom, to the truth, to god, to the cross. this is our europe!
mr president, the recent record rise in the euro against the dollar has caused concern in the minority of eu member states that belong to the eurozone, the 12 out of the 25 countries that are in the euro zone. of course, this situation is to some extent favourable to the exports of some countries of the so-called new union, it is less favourable to the countries of the old union, and it shows the helplessness and inaction of the european central bank. the european central bank in frankfurt has basically one constant reaction to what's happening with the euro, and that reaction is no reaction. i therefore propose that the role of the central bank be debated in this parliament. the president of the ecb, mr jean-claude trichet, was recently a guest of a committee of the european parliament. i hope that in our parliament too there should be a debate on the practical role of the bank.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to and ask you to take action in relation to the violation of consumer rights against european union citizens in slovakia and the czech republic. the case concerns the application of double pricing by slovak and czech institutions and companies to tourists visiting these countries. poles, as well as citizens of other eu countries, are discriminated against - in restaurants, hotels and museums. the same services that are used by the local residents are offered to foreigners at prices that are two or three times higher. in practice, it seems that the information on the price of admission to the museum given in english is different from that given in the national language - it is higher. the differentiation of the price list based on the criterion of citizen versus foreigner is a violation of the fundamental rights of consumers in the european union. all citizens of the 25 countries of the european union, as well as the czech republic and slovakia, are citizens of the european union and have the same rights and obligations within the community. i therefore call on the president, the committee on the internal market and the slovak and czech governments to intervene. the matter is urgent because the winter tourist season is approaching and tens of thousands of tourists will be visiting slovakia and the czech republic.
mr president, i wanted to protest against the insult to national governments in the european parliament. the poles are a nation that has experienced the last two totalitarian regimes - hitler's fascism, communism, which did not allow my nation and homeland to regenerate even for a moment, destroying it not only materially, but also intellectually and spiritually. that is why, aware of the danger of totalitarianism, i want to protest against some of the statements made by members of parliament, especially mr schultz, in relation to the governments of nation states, who have called them 'troubles'. after god, family, it is the nation and the fatherland that represent the most important values. the current trends in the european union are launching a world of people without a homeland, without a religion, for whom patriotism, culture, language are no longer representing values, in the name of some common state with one government and without a spirit. europe can only develop if it is a europe of its own, and democratically elected governments must be respected, especially in parliament. europe without christian roots, without religion, without a homeland, based only on mammon, is not friendly to man, heading towards a destructive totalitarianism.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the additional financial resources required by the current enlargement of the union. this political decision is obviously linked to the financial consequences, namely the guarantee of additional funds for the effective integration of the newly admitted countries. we cannot accept a proposal to reduce the union's budget when the european union has just been enlarged by ten new, mainly poor, countries. our priority should be to ensure that the budget is adequate to strengthen the cohesion of the union as it stands, and then to plan the financing of further enlargements, knowing that additional funds will be needed.
on behalf of a political group. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate. in the european union, debates on values are particularly important, but when we talk about values in this case, i would like to mention a few examples. at one time, poland, which was in a difficult situation, was persuaded by one of the world's most important countries not to supply arms to one of the countries of southeast asia. it has done so at a tremendous cost to its economic potential. that state immediately filled the gap and received the measurable values. i want to make it clear that if the code is to make sense, because it is a really necessary and sensible solution, it must be formally binding throughout the european union and a global agreement must be signed that would be accepted by at least the united states and russia. if we find ourselves going out of line and in the name of the so-called values we're proud of, impoverishing our societies and our economies, and others come in, increasing their advantage over our economies and their ability to influence the world, then we're actually reducing our ability to improve the human rights of the world. i am in favour of suspending the sanctions against china, because it is an ineffective measure which reduces the european union's economic development potential.
mr president, i wanted to say to you, mr minister, but mr president of the parliament, ladies and gentlemen, when half a million people die every year as a result of violence linked to small arms, whether in armed conflicts or as a result of crime, the european parliament must respond and this debate is part of that response. the european union is exporting death, although it must be admitted that it is exporting mainly outside europe, because in the last five years as much as 80% of the arms exports from the european union have been directed outside europe. but let us not fall for the illusions of the pacifists who would like to abolish war and arms, which is unrealistic, but it is possible and necessary to control the production and sale of arms in the union. we must also demand this very strongly from future members of the union. the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament has accepted my amendments in this spirit, and this is of course the case for romania and bulgaria, but also for croatia and turkey. as a pole, i would like to draw your attention to the initiative of my government, which together with the swedish government has already initiated five informal meetings of coarm, the working group on the export of conventional arms between the countries of the old and the new union. i also warmly support paragraph 28 of the motion for a resolution on the ban on the export of instruments for torture and the execution of capital punishment. at the same time, i'm not convinced of the realism of the proposal in paragraph 40 that says a special tax on the arms trade. i think that another tax will not serve peace in europe and the world, although it may calm the conscience of the bureaucrats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cuba cannot be a reserve with a sign that says 'human rights are not respected here'. it's not "animal farm", to use the title of george orwell's book, nor is it fidel castro's farm. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations. that's not the point. we must remind the cuban regime of its human rights without a tariff and demand the release of political prisoners. but let's not create any more barriers and fences. isolating cuba may be more in castro's favor than in the opposition's. human rights watch says the u.s. embargo is not on castro, but on the cuban people. the acp-eu parliamentary assembly will open in the netherlands on saturday. in this context, i would remind you that 77 countries in the region believe that relations with cuba should be developed rather than restricted. fighting for human rights, let's fight effectively. because with good intentions, defending the right values, we can unintentionally harm the cuban people and help those who chant "socialism or death!" i hope that the 25 foreign ministers of the european union will reach a decision on cuba in december that is both realistic and protective of human rights.
mr. president, a law that has been in force in cuba since this year that restricts internet access is a clear violation of the united nations universal declaration of human rights. it was passed as a punishment for the public for the actions of a group of 75 opposition activists who fought for freedom of expression last year. the law only allows internet access in select businesses and government offices. it is worth recalling that in 2002 the government banned the general sale of computers. the current law is another crackdown on opposition and independent journalists. cuba and its leftist allies around the world feed us the myth of the revolutionary act that overthrew the corrupt batista government decades ago. in the name of this myth, are we to close our eyes to the police reality of modern cuba, to the prisons, repression and persecution for the simple adherence to freedom and basic civil liberties? we, the citizens of this part of europe, which has been occupied for decades by moscow and its communist allies, know how important a simple gesture of solidarity from the free world is to activists imprisoned and repressed for their views. our experience tells us that anti-democratic regimes only count on firmness and consistency, and all their efforts are aimed at breaking international solidarity with human rights defenders. that's why you shouldn't back down. diplomatic sanctions, supporting those who defend civil liberties and speaking on their behalf in the international arena, is what we can and should do as european union countries, and to those who are mindlessly wearing gadgets with che guevara's image, i can only say to write the words "cuba yes, we are starting over" on them. the dissenters, accused of plotting against the independence and territorial integrity of the state, were in fact imprisoned only for peacefully exercising their fundamental rights. it is worth noting that the number of people repressed has decreased or increased depending on foreign pressure or fidel castro's international interests. the current escalation is a step backwards in the protection of human rights in cuba. therefore, it is of the utmost importance to reaffirm international support for the cuban democrats and to maintain diplomatic sanctions against the regime.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has faced very serious challenges in its internal policy: these are security and economic growth - economic growth which, despite the extremely ambitious objectives of the lisbon policy, is virtually absent in europe as a whole. and the reason for this is that we still have a very naive belief in the power and the power of regulation, especially regulation of economic life. this naive belief makes europe completely defenseless in the global market, this belief makes our citizens and our businesses subject to additional kilograms of law, very often harmful law. the second reason is the radical ageing of our societies; the radical ageing we are seeing in europe would kill off the economy at its peak, let alone the european economy. in the context of the council's deliberations, it is worth mentioning the harmonisation of legislation. there are areas where harmonization can bring good results, but there are also areas where harmonization is simply not possible. and that's the area of family law, for the simple reason that we have radically different ideas in europe about what a family is. the buttiglione case is a prime example of this. if anyone thinks that european law will be able to bring about the legal recognition of homosexual unions in countries that have not decided to experiment with it, they are very much mistaken. in the context of the council's deliberations, the interest in ukraine is very welcome, but it cannot be denied that this interest comes too late, let us hope not too late definitively. if it were not for this crisis, we would probably be faced with a continuation of an extremely passive policy towards the east. the crisis we are seeing among pro-western and pro-european forces in ukraine would probably not have happened if our neighbourhood policy had been politically bolder, economically much more generous, and above all open to the membership of countries like ukraine in the european union.
mr. speaker, mr. prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the days of communism, the authorities said that the ideology was good, but the people were bad because they didn't want to implement it. now, in the draft resolution, i read that the lisbon strategy is good, but the ugly member states do not want to implement it and are the 'main obstacle to achieving faster progress'. it sounds disturbingly familiar, and on that point i have to agree with mrs. lambert and mrs. zimmer, who have spoken about it. when the authors of the draft resolution speak of investing in people, research and innovation in paragraph 4, one can fear that, as is the case in the draft budget of the european union for 2007-13, this will be achieved by favouring the countries of the so-called old union, at the expense, unfortunately, of poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, lithuania, latvia and estonia. because nice words can take on, and sometimes do, unfortunately, an unsightly practical shape. after the criticism, praise for the council for finally acknowledging the demographic factor and for the authors of the resolution for asking the council to make action to deal with the consequences of europe's ageing population a political priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope you have noticed that the council of the european union has already accepted one of the most controversial ideas in the draft constitutional treaty. it's about qualified majority voting on immigration and asylum. what does that mean in practice? it means that in the european union, a qualified majority will be able to force a country that doesn't want to accept some asylum seekers. the european union, with a qualified majority, can decide that my country, poland, for example, is too ethnically homogeneous and that it should be given asylum seekers from asia or africa, of whom other countries already have too many, and we will not be allowed to object. each country has immigrants because of a particular neighborhood, because of its previous colonial policies, or because of the needs of its own labor market, and it has to decide for itself whether and to whom it is willing to grant asylum, and whose immigration it will accept. to deny countries the right to veto this is to violate their sovereignty in a very important matter. the constitutional treaty will be rejected in referendums, and here the council of the european union is throwing us one of its most controversial ideas. it's not allowed.
mr president, i would like to thank the council for its concern for ukraine, the european union's largest eastern neighbour, with an area larger than france, and a population of 50 million. ukraine is in the middle of a presidential election right now. it is good that the council has drawn attention to the irregularities of the first round, but i am short of attention to what is really happening in ukraine at the moment. there is a civil society being born right now, something that is not even in the cards in russia or belarus. every day in ukraine right now, tens of thousands of people are demonstrating to make their country a democratic, fair country, connected to the european union. i think it is not enough to just point fingers at the current ukrainian authorities for not applying democratic electoral rules. it is essential to give hope to the ukrainian people, to give hope and to open the door to their european aspirations.
mr. prime minister, please accept my condolences on the recent events in the netherlands. the name van gogh has always been associated with art, with beautiful colors. his sunflowers are a symbol of sunshine, warmth, freedom. isn't it a cruel thing to have a man with the same name die because he used his freedom of speech, his freedom of thought, because he was seeking the truth? in this context, it is particularly important that it was the dutch presidency that took up the difficult problem of the security of the union, its member states and its citizens. citizens rightly expect the union to adopt effective solutions in the area of freedom, security and justice, while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. the hague programme is intended to meet these expectations and, as i would like to stress, expresses the ambitions already contained in the constitutional treaty and meets most of these expectations. it is also pleased to announce that it will be joining this programme of the european strategy against drugs. the information on europe, which the presidency has made its priority, should be welcomed. it is clear that european awareness needs to be raised among citizens, especially in view of the turnout in the last elections. the union must be closer to the citizen, but is it enough, as i read in the conclusions, to broadcast public debates on european issues before the council meetings? is this enough to bring the union closer to its citizens? i am also concerned by the announcement that we will wait until june 2005 for a full information strategy - why so long? this strategy is needed today, especially since the information campaign on the european constitution was launched immediately after it was signed. and finally, the last issue, the issue of our future. it was right that the leaders of the four countries drew attention to the importance of demographic factors in the further economic and social development of the union and called for the development of a european pact for youth. it's a worthwhile initiative. young people have a different view of europe, they are well-educated, full of energy, free from the fears and prejudices of the older generation. this is a good sign for europe, for the union, for all of us, and that is why the youth pact should be drawn up as soon as possible and with the participation of young people.
i would like to pay tribute to mr wim kok, the former prime minister of the netherlands, who, with his team, drew up the report on the lisbon strategy during the dutch presidency. the diagnosis in this report was agreed upon by all. the european union is far behind, and the responsibility falls largely on the national governments. i agree that national strategies for the lisbon process need to be developed and consistently implemented, but they cannot be built in isolation - they need to be coherent. we need to build on the added value of regional cooperation with europe's neighbours. three examples: poland has a particularly large, highly educated youth population, while neighbouring germany and sweden have high technology and development opportunities if we combine our efforts. the baltic sea states have a special opportunity to cooperate in the field of energy security, which is important for the whole of europe. the czech republic, germany and poland have the most to contribute to the implementation of the kyoto protocol, which requires the development of european clean coal and carbon capture technologies. regional cooperation also means cooperation with our neighbours, the new neighbours of the european union. the european council's position on a friendly neighbourhood with ukraine is therefore important. we should ensure that ukraine has an open door to its european aspirations. we should immediately launch an action plan for ukraine with a focus on civil society. citizens' action and, above all, the understanding of the lisbon process by millions of people is also essential in our 25 countries. without it, we cannot achieve our ambitious goals.
acting president of the council. first of all, mr president, i should like to thank the members of this house very much for their contribution. you have dealt with matters which directly affect the european citizen in a penetrating way. i also noted that support has come from many quarters for the main points discussed by the council, namely, greater cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs, work on security in europe, work on more balanced economic growth, the lisbon strategy, and promoting citizen involvement. i would like to begin by referring to the programme for the hague. mr schulz rightly pointed out the important role of commissioner vitorino, because his input and influence have contributed to a very good result. i think it is also appropriate to thank mr vitorino for this. mr oreja has rightly spoken of the importance of setting priorities in the programme for freedom and security. these priorities exist, for example, with regard to the first point, asylum and migration. we're working on better decision making. qualified majority voting is introduced and an asylum procedure has been in place since 2010. we must take a strong stance against terrorism, and that is why we need to strengthen cooperation between the police, the judiciary and the intelligence services, as mrs in t't veld has already said. terrorism will be discussed at the european council in december. i would also like to refer to the action plan which will be drawn up by the european commission. mr schulz has rightly pointed out that the combination of security for the citizen should always be the issue. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. i think that balance is well represented in the hague programme. mrs kósáné kovács also stressed the need to uphold fundamental rights in europe. it defended the hague programme in this context. mr alvaro also spoke of a good combination of investigative powers and the enforcement of fundamental rights. the importance of qualified majority voting was then discussed. this is already the case in many areas, but not yet in the area of illegal immigration. this will change when the new constitutional treaty comes into force, when the bgm will apply in all areas. mr giertych also spoke of the imposition of migration quotas on member states. asylum migration is now a common responsibility in terms of procedures. that is why the hague programme is so important, but it does not mean that the bgm can impose migration quotas on member states. mr eurlings spoke with wisdom when he spoke of the importance of values and tolerance in society. it is also in the european context that people must treat each other with respect, but that presupposes two things. on the one hand, we must respect the different values which characterize europe, and on the other hand we must set limits when people resort to hatred, threats and insults. this is precisely how we want to build freedom and a peaceful society. that also means we have to be aware of the place of hate and racism in the debate. it would be about respectful cooperation and living together. in that regard, you should also be careful about the words you use. i have noticed, also in my contacts with representatives of the muslim community, that extremism and terrorism are also strongly rejected there. that is why it is dangerous to draw a direct link between, for example, islam and terrorists. it is precisely the terrorists who are abusing religion to commit heinous acts, and that must be rejected forcefully. that's why it's so important that different groups, whether they're christian, humanist, non-religious or islamic, work together to stamp out violence and extremism. the importance of victim support has rightly been mentioned in this parliament. mr. mayor oreja asked about it. there is a european action plan against terrorism, adopted by the european council in march, which includes a passage on solidarity with victims of terrorism. the dutch presidency intends to elaborate this aspect at the european council in december. mrs lambert has spoken of a human rights centre. the commission has published a communication on the conversion of the vienna observatory on racism and xenophobia into a european centre for human rights. this is now being discussed in the council and the decision will be taken under the luxembourg presidency. finally, as regards the hague programme, mrs flautre spoke of the reception in the region. she has expressed her concerns about that. it is good to note that when we talk about reception in the region that will always be in consultation with unhcr. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i have noticed that there is a lot of support in this parliament for the strategy, which is aimed at strengthening the economy in europe. the need for reform is also underlined. in this context i would also like to refer to the other report by mr kok, the employment task force report which was discussed some time ago. but alongside the comments of appreciation, a number of critical signals have also emerged. i am thinking, for example, of mrs lambert and mrs zimmer. they say that it is sometimes said that there is no alternative to the lisbon strategy. - is that right? - yeah. i would like to point out once again that the lisbon strategy is a combination of economic dynamism, social cohesion and the right to sustainable development. it is this triad that has also been highlighted in the conclusions of the european council. i therefore disagree with the view that mr kok and his high-level group have not paid sufficient attention to the social and environmental dimensions. the environment has been well taken care of, particularly from a 'win-win' point of view. mr kok also said in the european council that we need growth precisely to preserve the european social model. finally, i would refer to paragraph 5 of the european council conclusions, which states that competitiveness must be strengthened by a balanced strategy with economic, social and environmental dimensions. then mr blokland pointed out that mr kok had put the ball back in the member states' court. in this context, mr blokland also asked what the dutch presidency will do in the near future. i would like to make three points. first, we analysed the comments, suggestions and visions of the heads of government at the informal working dinner. secondly, we will consult the luxembourg presidency on the further conclusions and we will of course be in touch with commission president barroso if he and his team are approved by you. i also note that you are asking for concrete action, not just statements but just business and approach. in this context, mr eurlings' suggestion is interesting. he says that there are innovation platforms in different member states and that they should work together where possible. mrs van den burg rightly pointed to the cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments. the lady in the field has already pointed out the need for action on other occasions. we will also convey this message to the luxembourg presidency. it is good to recall that the liberalisation we need to strengthen the functioning of the market is not necessarily incompatible with the european social model. mrs oomen-ruijten has rightly pointed out that action must be concrete and that there must also be national responsibilities. that is also why, as president of the european council, i have chosen a different working formula, namely a very thorough discussion during the working dinner, to discuss the experience of reform policy in the various european member states. i think that was a good formula. i also think that mrs oomen-ruijten has rightly spoken about the need for better regulation and the reduction of regulatory burdens in order to strengthen the business environment in europe and economic growth. i agree with you that the european parliament can play an important role here too. finally, mrs staniszewska spoke about the objectives for lisbon in relation to the financial perspective. these objectives will naturally be given prominence in the new financial perspective and the amount of the amounts will of course still have to be discussed. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the need for good communication has been stressed from various quarters. mr eurlings rightly pointed out that a solution must be found quickly to the problem of your status and income, because a continuous discussion of this does not give a good impression. that is why my minister for european affairs, mr nicolaï, will be working on this. we have discussed the language and we have been allowed to enjoy welsh and irish, i understand your message. then we'll have the constitution. a week from the referendum was suggested. the fact is that the referenda are concerned with different situations in the member states. the law is not the same. there are a number of practical and legal objections to holding the referendums in one week. mr nicolaï discussed this yesterday with your committee on constitutional affairs. three elements have emerged. firstly, it is recognised that these are primarily national matters. secondly, the european character can be made clear by, for example, joint simultaneous action, which is also in line with what you have put forward here. we will also work on subtle coordination, for example by ensuring that there is good consultation between the european affairs ministers on the planning of campaigns and so on. mr knapman then spoke of the possible problems that could arise if there was a 'no' vote in referenda and in decision-making at member state level. you know the deal. the european council has agreed that if four-fifths of the member states have ratified and if some member states still have problems, the situation will be discussed. there can be no question of signing and ratifying a treaty unless all the countries sign it. but let us work together to make sure that the choice is a positive one, that everything is done to get support for the constitutional convention. i have good hopes and high expectations, to be honest. it does, let me be clear, require very good communication. finally, professor grabowska spoke, also in the context of communication, of a pact for young people. she has supported us in this and i am delighted with her words. finally, mr president, various comments were made on external relations, foreign policy and the concern that exists about various developments in the world. that brings me to the comments by mr catania, mr dimitrakopoulos and mrs napoletano on the situation in iraq. we cannot turn a blind eye to what is happening in iraq. of course, the rules of international law will have to be respected. we expect the united states authorities to immediately launch a thorough investigation into the images we saw yesterday and to take measures to prevent such events in the future. i would also like to express my dismay at the continuing attacks and hostage-taking in iraq, the most recent of which was the murder of aid worker margaret hassan. our condolences go out to the families of the victims of the horrible violence in iraq. at the same time, we must all contribute to stability in iraq. the conference to be held in sharm el sheikh next tuesday will be a good opportunity for the neighbouring countries and the major international players to send a joint signal to iraq and the iraqi people. i hope and i count on this to be a clear signal in support of the iraqi interim government and in support of democracy, freedom, security and justice in iraq. mrs de keyser spoke of the concern about the middle east. i would like to stress that the union will do its utmost to ensure the success of the palestinian elections. the short-term programme which we adopted in the european council was also intended to do this. minister bot and high representative solana are in consultation with arab countries and with the members of the quartet and the party concerned. we are also working as a presidency, in close consultation with javier solana, on a package of direct measures to support the palestinians, particularly in the run-up to the presidential elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the union certainly offers ukraine a future perspective and it is not for nothing that we have developed an action plan with and for ukraine in the framework of the european neighbourhood programme. we hope to formally establish this in december, thereby laying a new foundation for our future cooperation. we do not look at who wins the elections, but at how they are conducted. only through free and fair elections can the ukrainian government demonstrate that it is adhering to european standards not only in words but also in deeds. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament on behalf of the presidency for their profound and interesting contributions. you have given signals which are important for the further development of international policy. europe is of great importance to the citizen. if europe contributes to jobs, to the future prospects of the economy, if europe contributes to the strengthening of security and if europe can achieve results in these areas, then communication will be greatly enhanced. i will of course convey your feelings to the council and thank you again very much for your contribution.
commission. mr president, during the debate it was said that to talk about there being no alternative to the lisbon strategy was questionable, but that reflects an incorrect perception of what it is really about. it is not a simple and easy fix that drew us to defining this position in lisbon, it is a more complex and broadly defined strategy. it is not an à la carte list, available for selective political shopping, but one balanced menu. of course it is complex, and that is why we needed to re-evaluate where we are and how we can improve performance. if we did not have it at all, we would have to invent it. one aspect links the challenge of the ageing population in europe with the challenge of increasing competitiveness. in a broad sense, that aspect is education. in my view, we are not entitled to life-long earning without life-long learning and this has to be very broadly defined. it is not just about elevating the elite in europe, it is also important to look at the broader definition of education for the labour market. here, the challenge for europe to improve its competitiveness is not to say 'work harder' but to say 'work smarter'. this is the only way forward and is also why increasing the focus on education is essential. money is also essential. one per cent is not enough! it does not make sense to talk about ambition and to define and identify with the ambition of lisbon without doing something to the budget. this is not just about the community budget, but it does include it. we cannot have a credible ambition for europe without a credible budget for europe. mr titley suggested a scoreboard to show the performance of member states' implementation efforts. i see the kok report as an initial step along those lines. i am totally convinced that president barroso and the incoming commission will do its utmost in this respect. mr harbour mentioned the need for the commission to reduce red tape and to simplify procedures. an important point on the european agenda should be to look again at the existing acquis of directives and find out whether they could be simplified by transforming them and clarifying things to have more regulations and fewer directives. this would make it easier for economic players in europe to find out what the existing legal situation is by reading it in a regulation instead of having to find out how directives have been implemented in all the different member states. to mention just one example, the prodi commission has reduced the different ways of tendering from 48 to 8. this is not the answer to all the problems and i would say that the financial regulation is still a monster. we have not reached the point of simplification that we had hoped for. one reason for this is that in reacting to the problems of the previous commission, we perhaps added too many layers of futile ex ante controls. i hope the commission and parliament will continue to look at the financial regulation. confidence-building between our european institutions is necessary, but it is now necessary to build self-confidence. we can do better. let me turn now to some final remarks on external relations. i add my voice to the sympathy being expressed to the family of the aid worker, margaret hassan, particularly because we in the commission have been funding her work and the work of her organisation in iraq over many years. it seems to be perpetually necessary to remind the strongest power in the world about the need to respect international humanitarian law. i was totally shocked to learn the other day that red crescent aid workers were not given access to fallujah by the united states army there. this is very, very bad and the international community – if we have one – should react very strongly against this type of behaviour. we, as europeans, cannot create a credible basis for our relationship with an emerging democratic iraq if we do not invest and do not clarify that it is possible for our views to differ from those of others on some points. (applause) on the issue of the readmission problem i would also say that confidence-building is necessary. it is not just about telling our neighbours and some developing countries far away from here that they have to take back refused asylum seekers from their own country or maybe their neighbouring country. we have to consider europe's image in this. we have to offer some burden-sharing when we do these things. we must make it clear that we should not fund these activities with money earmarked for development cooperation. we have to talk about additionality, because we are adding to the list of things to do. this is the last time i will address this house. i want, on a personal note, to thank you for five very good years, both on the level of the results we have achieved together and on a personal level. thank you, and good luck. (loud applause)
i thank you, commissioner nielson, and on behalf of parliament we also want to thank you for your work. as part of the debate's conclusion, i have received six motions for resolutions, which will be voted on at 12.30 p.m. today. i close the debate on the council and commission's position. thank you to all the speakers, thank you to prime minister balkenende and to the commissioner. at 12 o'clock, the meeting will resume, and it will address the issues of... it will be a formal south african meeting. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the delegation for law and justice in the group of the union for a europe of nations has been faced with a serious dilemma. on the one hand, we have supported mr barroso and we are not ashamed of it - we think we have done well, because the president of the commission is the guarantee that this commission will work well and be a good european commission. we also believe that it is in the interests of many european countries - those which are economically weaker - to have a strong european commission, and we hope that the european commission, under the presidency of mr barroso, will be a strong commission, serving the idea of european solidarity. on the other hand, however, we have come up against a very worrying precedent which has led to the withdrawal of the candidacy of what we consider to be a good commissioner, mr roco buttiglione, who is no longer a member of this commission, under the influence of the extreme left in this house, under the influence of ideological prejudices in this house. on the other hand, this house was ready to take up the question of the totalitarian past, the membership of some of the members of this commission in the criminal communist party, and we believe that this creates a certain double standard of morality which is applied today in europe to people of conservative convictions, to catholics and to communists - people who have served a criminal ideology and the enslavement of their own countries. but for us, the law and justice meps in the uen group, the principle of national sovereignty is extremely important. we recognize that the european commission in its present form is a commission negotiated by sovereign states and sovereign governments of sovereign european peoples and therefore, by denying this parliament the right to challenge the decisions of the national states, we cannot vote against this commission, because we believe, and i will stress this very clearly, that this parliament has no right to challenge the decisions of national governments. but for the reasons i mentioned earlier, we cannot vote for this commission either, despite our great respect for mr barroso and the many commissioners who will be sitting on this commission. we do not wish to interfere with this election and will abstain, but we wish mr barroso and his commission good luck and success in their work for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the independence and democracy group has been and remains opposed to the european commission, whether it is resigning or being appointed. it is an undemocratic, opaque body which retains a huge decision-making power. we have therefore been very attentive to the candidates for commissioners interviewed by the various committees of parliament. among the 25 was one whose competence was beyond doubt. as a lawyer, a political scientist, an experienced statesman, he was a perfect fit for the substantive criteria. however, mr buttiglione was the victim of blatant discrimination in the european parliament because of his catholic beliefs, which he claimed would not affect the quality of his work. it is therefore entirely appropriate to agree with the view of the metropolitan of munich, cardinal friedrich wetter, that none of the founding fathers of a united europe would have the slightest chance of becoming a commissioner of the european union today. in the light of the above, the current model of the functioning of the union is a caricature of the ideas of jean monnet, alcide de gasperi, robert schuman and konrad adenauer.
mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with what mr kilroy-silk said, not because he was a labour member of the british parliament until recently, as i wanted to remind some of his critics. mr cohn-benditt has quoted mao zedong, whose work you are familiar with, mr president barroso. i quote lenin, who taught that sometimes you have to take one step back to take two steps forward. you didn't listen to lenin, you took two steps back and only one step forward. today i am not convinced that the present composition of the commission is better than the previous one. i hear that we must vote for this composition because we are tired of this mess in the structures of the european union, and i agree with that. i wanted to say, mr president barroso, that the members of the polish self-defence party will vote in favour of the composition of the commission that you have presented, with reservations about some of the candidates for commissioners that you have put forward. we'll vote yes, but it's not a five-year trust, it's a one-year trust, and we'll be watching your hands carefully. and finally, mr president, i would like to say that we will vote in favour of the report because you give the impression of being an honest man, and there is a lack of honesty in european politics. i hope you can reduce the deficit.
madam president, i hope that this sound is not a storm warning and that the weather will be fine. on behalf of the polish delegation to the group of the european people's party, i would like to support commission barroso ii. we do so with a heavy heart because the changes made to it are unfair and inadequate. but the enlarged european union is waiting for a new commission and for your strong leadership, mr barroso. it is in our common european interest to do so. so now it is about the substance of the new commission's policy, not about the staff. what do we expect from the new commission? the implementation of three priorities: first, the completion of enlargement, which has taken place but has not yet taken place; second, the maintenance and development of the solidarity and cohesion of the european union; and third, the development of the eastern dimension of the european union. as i said, the expansion is formally done, but it's not finished. it is about the equal involvement of the member states in all the dimensions of the union's policies. it is about the new members achieving equal rights, full rights and equal treatment. the second priority, especially for new members, is the union's socioeconomic cohesion in the name of the still needed principle of solidarity. your immediate task will be to convince the council that the budget for the next seven years should be commensurate with the new tasks of enlargement. 'you can't have more europe for less money' - those were your words in july. we hope you'll honor them and that you'll support the budget proposals of the prodigy commission. parliament will be on your side, mr president. the third priority is the eastern dimension and the new neighbourhood policy, which we expect you to lead actively. we need a policy that is generous but not permissive, a policy that is demanding but effective, a policy that exports the european model of democracy and market economy, a policy that opposes the violation of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, a policy that supports civil society, fair and free elections in belarus and ukraine, a policy that opens the door to the european democratic aspirations of ukraine. in conclusion, we support your commission. we hope that it will focus on these priorities and we wish you a strong commission and a strong leadership.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, mr ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, i rise not only on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group but also as chairman of the committee on petitions. both the ombudsman and the committee on petitions work closely together because they are the two institutions that deal directly with citizens' affairs, that come directly into contact with citizens and that citizens come into direct contact with. in these days when we so often say that the eu institutions are alienated from the lives of citizens, when citizens feel that they have no connection with what is happening in the european union, it is the ombudsman's office and the institution of the european parliament's committee on petitions that are the institutions to which every citizen can turn with his case and can count on having his case resolved, or at least having a convincing explanation. these citizens' concerns are extremely important and the ombudsman's role in this case, as well as the commission's, is also extremely important. we work very closely with the ombudsman and we have a good appreciation of the ombudsman's work. we cooperate very well with the ombudsman, and that is the ombudsman-commission on petitions, and in cases of particular importance also the european parliament, also this chamber, which deals with cases on the ombudsman's initiative and also those on which the committee on petitions has delivered an opinion. this fundamental role of the ombudsman, whose institution was once set up - so to speak - in opposition to government institutions, is today particularly clear and obvious. we are discussing the 2003 report today, as mr de rossa said on behalf of our commission. we are very positive about the ombudsman's work. i would just like to mention that for obvious reasons there was never an ombudsman institution in the communist countries and it was only when communism was weakening, at its end, that the office of the ombudsman was established in poland, which is gaining more and more authority from one term to another in poland. i was also pleased to hear that mrs reding, the european commission representative, had once held the office i have today.
in writing. i believe that the way in which the composition of the european commission has been changed under the presidency of josé manuel durao barroso is an infringement of the european parliament's powers and a violation of the principle of freedom of conscience. i believe that the appointment of commissioners should be a sovereign decision of national governments and that the european parliament should not question the choices made by national governments in this respect. the negative assessment by the european parliament's commission of rocco butiglioni, the commissioner responsible for justice, civil liberties and security, was based on ideological rather than substantive grounds and constituted repression by the left for his adherence to the views of the christian faith. finally, i find it scandalous that in the same european commission, which parliament has refused to admit to its membership a man of faith who has demonstrated his integrity by living an exemplary life, there is a place for people who have signed their names to anti-democratic communist regimes, which is a sign of the double standards of the european parliament. that's why i abstained during the approval vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to speak today without emotion, without commitment, without emotion about the fate of tibet and the fate of the tibetan people. this nation, living in a specific environment - a natural environment - was isolated from the world around it. this nation has developed a distinctive culture and a distinctive attitude toward international affairs. for decades, this nation has been subjected to brutal persecution by imperialist, communist china. china has taken advantage of the fact that tibet has never aspired to any special international status. living, as i said, in very special conditions, shaped by nature specifically, tibet saw no reason to send its ambassadors to other countries to aspire to some kind of international position. so china has recognized that this is a state, that this is a nation that has no sovereignty and no right to sovereignty. this nation, the tibetan state, had a right to sovereignty, but not in the sense that we had in europe. it is not in accordance with our custom to recognize those countries which have their ambassadors, which have their representations, which attend international conferences. we cannot accept the chinese lawlessness, which is that this peaceful nation has become a victim of chinese imperialism. we are now witnessing the rape of this peaceful nation itself, a rape that is growing and causing a mass exodus of tibetans to europe and other countries of the world. we cannot accept that a peaceful society be persecuted in all its aspects and that its culture, language and religion be destroyed. today the world is willing to overlook many, many wrongs on the part of those who provide economic contracts and who offer opportunities for some material benefit. we in the european parliament cannot accept such a morality - the morality of those who, for the sake of small material gains - perhaps not small, perhaps sometimes quite large - accept that a nation be wiped out from the international arena. we have put together a resolution, and this resolution should be a special appeal, also to all the authorities of the european union and to those who will be meeting at the eu-china summit, that china end its repression, and in this case we are particularly concerned with what is today the most urgent issue, to release the prisoner of conscience, monk tenzin deleg rinpoche.
we heard from mr farage at the last meeting that there are serious reasons why a french commissioner should not be commissioner. the house laughed at this statement, accused our colleague of not having the right information, but it turned out that he had the right information and the vote took place in conditions in which everyone was convinced that there were no allegations against this commissioner. in other words, the vote was taken in the presence of false information in this room. it is imperative that we return to this debate and i strongly support mr farage's motion.
council. – mr president, let me start by saying that i welcome the opportunity to discuss with you the situation in ukraine after the presidential elections and the state of the relations between the eu and ukraine. five weeks ago i said that ukraine was at a crossroads, with presidential elections which would determine the direction ukraine is going during the next four years. we have all seen what happened since then. and i think that we all agree that the elections of 31 october and 21 november were not free or fair and did not live up to international standards. javier solana explained that message to your foreign affairs committee last wednesday. i will explain what we have done since then, how we see the current situation and what steps should be taken next. the eu has not stood by and watched. before the elections, we called on the ukrainian authorities, through telephone calls and otherwise, to ensure the elections were free and fair. immediately after the elections the presidency issued a declaration, on the basis of the report by the osce/odihr, expressing its concern about the election process. on the same day, monday 22 november, the ukrainian ambassadors in all eu capitals were summoned to receive this message. this was, as you know, in line with the council conclusions. on 24 november the presidency asked ambassador biegman to go as its special envoy to kiev, where he was joined later by javier solana, in order to stimulate a dialogue between all parties. that day, we also expressed our regret about the fact that the central election committee made the results of the elections public and declared mr yanukovich the winner of the elections, despite the large number of complaints about the election process. that regret concerned the procedure and the timing, not the winner or the loser. the presidency was pleased that the supreme court of ukraine on wednesday decided to take the complaints on the election results into consideration and blocked the official confirmation and publication of the election results, thereby stopping the process of installing a new president. over recent days the eu has been in very close contact with the osce, the council of europe, the us and russia, since solving the situation in ukraine requires a concerted effort and sending a similar message to the ukrainians. prime minister balkenende, in his capacity of president of the european council, has been working behind the scenes constantly. in his conversations with president kuchma, mr lytvyn, the chairman of the ukrainian parliament, and others, he has underlined the eu’s position, including the eu’s call on all sides to show restraint and to express themselves in a non-violent manner. foreign minister bot has talked to, amongst others, his us, russian and ukrainian counterparts. furthermore, high representative javier solana and the personal representative of the eu presidency ambassador, mr biegman, are also fully engaged in helping to solve the crisis. in fact, as we speak they are both in kiev for a second time to try to reduce the political tensions caused by the discussion about possible autonomy and hence a possible split in ukraine. polish president kwaśniewski, as chair of the council of europe, and lithuanian president adamkus are also in kiev to contribute to finding a solution for this crisis. we are also worried about signals that the parties would not talk to each other any more. therefore, more recently the presidency has called on all parties to meet again as they did during the round-table talks on 26 november this year and to live up to the agreements made there. respecting the unity of ukraine is essential to a peaceful solution to the conflict. we have made it clear that any use of force is to be condemned and that the european union is willing to continue to play a supportive role in the resolution of the conflict. how do we see the way ahead in this situation of political tension and a potential further rift within the ukrainian society? the current situation requires a political answer which fits in with ukrainian legislation and which respects the rule of law. any solution should ensure that the ukrainian electoral system regains the trust of the ukrainian people. we have to make sure that the people trust that the outcome of the process reflects their will. frankly speaking, i do not see how all the complaints that have been filed on the second round of elections can be solved so that the outcome of this round of elections is ultimately acceptable to all. in such a case, a new, second round of elections may be the only way out. we then have to ensure that they are conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner, with a level playing field for all candidates across ukraine. this requires sufficient international and local observers, media that can freely report on the election campaign and people who can vote truly freely, without outside pressure. this applies to the whole election process, from the start – when the candidates present themselves – to the final tallying by the central election committee. it requires a situation where the most hotly contested issues, such as absentee balloting and local election observers, are addressed beforehand. i do not want to discuss individual persons. it is not the eu’s position to support one candidate over the other. what the eu’s position is about – and we have insisted on this from the very start – is that the process should be transparent, free and fair, so that the ukrainian people can trust that the outcome of the elections reflects their will. only then can we ensure that the new president is the president of all ukrainian citizens, and not just of those from the east or from the west. that way, territorial integrity will also be maintained. the crisis in ukraine does not require just the eu to act. it requires an involvement from all international players, such as the council of europe, the osce, the us and russia. ukraine is not only an important neighbour of the eu, it is also probably the most important neighbour of russia. that is why the presidency has stayed in close contact with the russian authorities and why it was discussed at the eu-russia summit. we both support the ukrainians in their search for a solution that respects the will of the ukrainian people, ensures the territorial integrity of ukraine and contributes in the long run to a stable, free and prosperous ukraine under a president of all ukrainian citizens. we should not support one candidate over another; we should support the achievement of democratic standards characterised by transparent procedures and legal recourse. in addition to an electoral process that cannot be trusted, there is another possible cause that might create a decisive rift in ukrainian society. that is a situation where violence or force takes over from the legal, constitutional process. therefore, together, we have put severe pressure on all involved to refrain from violence or the use of force. the coming days will be crucial for ukraine and for the relationship between the eu and ukraine. with our engagement, we want ukraine to succeed as a strategic and democratic neighbour. we want to cooperate with ukraine in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, with shared democratic values at its base. the presidency understands the european parliament’s hesitance to discuss the european neighbourhood policy action plan for ukraine in the current situation. like the european parliament, the council will reflect on its policy in the light of further developments. but i think we all want to engage ukraine in a closer and more intense relationship. the potential is there. as a start, ukraine has to deliver on democratic values. therefore, in closing, i say that we should express our support to all those on both sides who are peacefully and democratically expressing their views and their political aspirations. we urge the people of ukraine to work together with the international community to resolve the current political crisis. we have to find a solution that ensures that ukrainians can trust that their will is reflected; a solution away from violence and the use of force, and one which guarantees that the territorial integrity of ukraine is maintained; in short, a solution which is acceptable to all ukrainians. let us hope that together we can help ukraine to do so. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me say first of all that i too would like to make a strong case for a non-violent solution in ukraine. and i would like to take up what mr nicolaï said today about the situation in ukraine. the commission, which has always been involved in all these mediation efforts, was of course very concerned from the outset that the recent presidential elections were a clear violation of basic democratic principles. in the light of the reports by the osce election observation mission on serious and genuinely systematic irregularities, it is clear that the officially announced results do not reflect the will of the ukrainian voters and therefore the eu as a whole and therefore the commission cannot accept the election result. (applause from the centre) you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the ukrainian parliament also adopted this position in a resolution - by the way, by an overwhelming majority. the message from the european union was therefore clear: the democratic decision of the ukrainian people must be respected! at the same time, we must of course also engage in active crisis management to bring about a peaceful solution to this crisis. i can agree with what mr nicolaï has already said. ambassador biegman was sent to ukraine to see what could be done. he then held these talks on 25 november - i will make this brief, as is well known - and on that basis there was this first mediation mission, with polish president kwaśniewksi, lithuanian president adamkus and high representative javier solana conducting a fact-finding mission and, of course, ongoing talks. the osce secretary-general kubisch was also there, and i think it was very important. in the course of these talks and as a result of the preliminary talks by ambassador biegman, the first alternatives, the first possible solutions, were discussed, with the possibility of a repeat of the by-election now becoming more and more likely. the ukrainian parliament also voted for a repeat of the second round of elections. yushchenko has also, as you know, appealed the election result to the ukrainian supreme court. the problem must be solved politically - and my colleague has already said this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the parties are divided on whether a completely new second round of elections should be held or only in a few districts. in any case, support for yanukovych is declining, as was also shown this morning in the ukrainian parliament, which by an overwhelming majority - 228 votes in favour, one against and three abstentions - adopted a motion of censure against the government of prime minister yanukovych. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first, democracy must be maintained. the people of ukraine must be free to decide on the future of the country. it is not a question of supporting a candidate or interfering in a specific electoral dispute, but of respecting recognized democratic principles. secondly, we need stability, both in ukraine itself and in terms of territorial integrity. ukraine must remain intact as a functioning state. the division of the country would lead to a serious crisis, which is why we - the various european institutions - have all spoken out on the question of territorial integrity. ladies and gentlemen, i have just spoken to the former foreign minister tarasyuk, who is present in the visitors' gallery, and he has assured me that the opposition will not take the first step towards violence. that means they want a peaceful solution. that is what we are trying to do. (applause from the centre) let me address two questions that have been raised repeatedly in the last few days and that are in the room: have we the european union done enough for ukraine in its transition to democracy and a market economy? in my opinion, yes. we did everything we could. first, the eu is not only ukraine's largest donor. since 1991, we have spent more than one billion euros under tacis and other programmes, a large part of which has been and is being used for programmes to promote democratisation, institutional reform and human rights initiatives. we have always offered ukraine a special perspective, a clear perspective. since 1991, and particularly since the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement in 1998, we have intensified our cooperation in many areas, and in particular supported economic and social reforms. this includes, in particular, the european parliament's dialogue with the ukrainian parliament. we now want to deepen this partnership considerably in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. you know that the european neighbourhood policy aims to create a circle of friends around the enlarged union. the action plans developed for this purpose offer each partner an ambitious and, above all, tailor-made perspective. they include, for example, joint action on justice, energy and the environment, deeper trade relations, i.e. a possibility of participating in the internal market, and finally even partial integration of our partners into the internal market, i.e. participation in the so-called four freedoms. the question of ukraine's accession to the union is not currently being discussed. but we also made it clear that we don't slam doors. i also want to make it very clear, as my colleague has already said, that the quality of our partnership depends, of course, on the quality of democracy in ukraine. the union has a strong interest in relations with ukraine, and we expect ukraine to continue to commit itself to european values. (applause from the centre) this morning in the college we also discussed the question of action plans for ukraine. these action plans will in principle be on the agenda for the next commission meeting. we will of course be monitoring developments in ukraine very closely and will take a decision next week. we will of course take the european parliament's position into account. i am therefore very interested in your opinion on this question. the commission will continue to implement the measures already in place to promote democracy and support civil society, which are of particular benefit to the population. i believe that this is exactly the right signal to send to support the people in their courageous struggle to consolidate democratic values. as soon as ukraine decides to hold a second round of elections, which will really take account of democratic criteria, we will support those elections with european instruments, as i can announce today. (applause from the centre) of course, the responsibility for the proper conduct of the elections lies with ukraine. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. this means, in particular, that both the electoral law and the practical conduct of the election will be massively improved. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the commission is currently examining the extent to which this electoral process can be supported by our rapid reaction mechanism and other means, similar to what we did in january 2004 to support the georgian electoral authorities. the images from all parts of ukraine show that millions of ukrainians are actively living their basic democratic freedoms under difficult, dramatic conditions. the images remind us all of the peaceful civil movements of 1989 which overcame the division of the european continent. ukraine has the firm sympathy of the european union and all its european citizens. the european commission will also continue to do everything it can to work closely with ukraine in this historic process of transformation. the european neighbourhood policy is an essential instrument for promoting and exporting stability and the basic principles of europe! (applause from the centre)
, in the name of the group.– mr president, i welcome the chairman of the ukrainian parliament’s european affairs committee. let me draw the house’s attention to the fact that we are witnessing an unprecedented revolution in ukraine. a vibrant, true democracy is being born before our very eyes. almost a quarter of a century ago similar events took place in the gdansk shipyard where solidarność was born. then as today they captivated the minds of the whole of europe. we are all watching the emergence of true civil society. people are raising their heads and, just as in 1980, they do so against all the odds. then the response of most european democracies was clear. the message then was that the people on the other side of the iron curtain had a right to freedom. just as then, all the political families in the european parliament stand united in their unequivocal support for democracy and the rule of law in ukraine. we all stand together in our condemnation of manipulation and electoral fraud. our support is for democracy, and not for a particular candidate or party. on democracy there can be no divisions among us. today we are all ukrainians. we all speak the same language, as is shown by the resolution on ukraine – jointly agreed by all groups. this is the language of democracy, human rights and freedom. we owe that to ukrainian society and to its nascent democracy. just a few days ago ukraine seemed a distant place. today we understand ukraine better and feel closer to the country, which is one of our most important neighbours. ukrainian society has shown us not only its political maturity, but also its adherence to our common european values. undoubtedly one of the most important missions of the european union is to promote democracy and the rule of law. the union does so, as the treaty says, by placing individual rights and freedoms at the heart of its activities. we cannot stand idly by when human dignity and democracy is trampled upon. we cannot recognise the results of the second round of elections in ukraine, which were manipulated and falsified. we cannot accept the disregard of the wishes of the people of ukraine. we have to reject all allegations that, by expressing its support for the ukrainian people’s right to exercise democratic rights, the european union is encouraging violence. on the contrary, we appeal for a peaceful solution and dialogue. all neighbours carry a great duty of responsibility as regards the situation in ukraine, including russia. our duty is to act. we are bound to call on the ukrainian authorities to cancel the second round of the presidential elections and to organise a rerun of the second round, but not new elections that would eliminate current candidates. this should be done before the end of the year and under the full scrutiny of international observers. the european union and other international bodies should do everything to guarantee full transparency of the electoral process, which should meet all democratic standards. we look with hope to the role played by the ukrainian parliament, supreme court, international mediators and the free media. the eu should use all means to secure the democratic character of the elections. we should envisage two scenarios. the first negative, meaning violation of democracy and the eventual introduction of sanctions against the undemocratic regime. the second positive, meaning generous assistance and a helping hand if democracy wins in ukraine. the european parliament should also strongly encourage safeguarding of the country’s integrity, carried out in a peaceful manner. we share the council’s and commission’s assessment of ukraine as a key neighbour and partner. if the rerun of the second round of the presidential elections meets international standards, we should ask the council and the commission to speed up implementation of the action plan for ukraine and, as a priority, to focus on the development of civil society. if ukraine takes a positive step towards democracy, we should do more, act more quickly, and consider giving more relevance and true content to our new neighbourhood policy towards ukraine and a new impulse to our eastern policy under the cfsp. we should move beyond rhetoric. let us multiply the links between the european union and ukraine in all possible areas – education, culture, entrepreneurship, trade, investment, to name just a few. if realities on the ground allow, we should grant ukraine the status of a market economy and more access to our markets. we should also allow for more flexibility in the visa system. these concrete moves will constitute the best recipe for strengthening the emerging democracy on the doorstep of the european union. we should express – and not only verbally – our solidarity with the ukrainian people. we should keep doors open to ukraine’s european aspirations. if democracy prevails in ukraine, it will be a triumph of values which are enshrined in all our european constitutional charters. i end by saying in ukrainian, perhaps for the first time in this house: ‘європейсъкий парламент вітає демократію в україні!’ – the european parliament greets democracy in ukraine. (applause)
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament. every institution has a moment that is permanently written in its history. today, the european parliament in orange is making european history. it is facing a crucial moment in its history, one that will determine what the european parliament will be in the future of europe. i am very pleased to say that on this important issue, the ukrainian issue, there was a unity of opinion between the european council, the european commission and the european parliament, which was the first to understand what the colour orange means in europe. in 1981, the warsaw congress of trade unions held in gdańsk, the trade union solidarity appealed to working people in all parts of the world and especially in the soviet world. it's a good crop. today's orange colour is a reminder of solidarity, which is also at the heart of europe's existence. there's a connection between the cloves revolution in portugal and the rose revolution in georgia, and the orange revolution in ukraine. this is about freedom, and the future of europe depends on the idea of freedom. what do we want in the present moment? i would very much like the polish parliament to be present. the polish parliament was the first to officially accept a representative of the ukrainian opposition and protest against the lie. i would like the european parliament to say clearly today that it does not accept lies and falsehoods and will not recognise the elections, that it expects the truth, the rule of law, to prevail in ukraine too and that no one can impose violence on it, and that the european parliament therefore expresses its solidarity with those who are waiting in the streets of kiev in the cold for a result that would satisfy them. i would also like to say that we expect the political negotiations that are taking place right now in kiev, and in which the great institutions of europe, such as the european union, the council of europe and the osce, are taking part, to produce a solution that will restore freedom. finally, i would like to say that ukraine has opened up to europe. ladies and gentlemen, europe must open up to ukraine.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the eyes of the world are on ukraine. the crowds in kiev, demonstrating their desire for normality and justice, the crowds who maintain their calm and dignity, command our admiration, and rightly so. we all pray that, unlike in the past, the ukrainians will be the ones to decide their own future. but while enthusiasm is a desirable thing, blindness is certainly not. there is a tendency to oversimplify the situation in ukraine. one side is presented as all black, the other as all white. when we want to teach lessons in democracy and talk about standards, we must make sure that democracy applies to everyone. one of the two sides is rightly accused of not respecting the basic rules for holding free elections, but i have in my hands the internet pages of a ukrainian newspaper which denounced a few days ago an electoral document distributed in western ukraine by some supporters of yushchenko. under the heading "ukraine for ukrainians", the text reads: "the election of viktor yushchenko guarantees the establishment of a national dictatorship. . . . drive out the muscovites, poles and jews from our lands. . . . our power will be terrible for the muscovites, jews and poles who do not adopt our faith, etc". this kind of incitement to hatred cannot be ignored in the european parliament or else we are making a fool of ourselves. if we are moral to some, let us be moral to others. let us understand each other, i do not doubt for a moment that the vast majority of ukrainians do not think this way, but history also teaches us that particularly aggressive minorities can come to power and thus confiscate from entire peoples the benefits of their just revolt. the british helsinki committee also reports a number of racist statements by yushchenko supporters. i therefore wholeheartedly wish my ukrainian brothers, whom i particularly love, to elect the president of their choice, but i hope that this president will not fall into the trap of discriminating against national or religious minorities. that no foreign state interferes in the internal affairs of ukraine. i belong to the group "independence and democracy". long live the independent and democratic ukraine!
, on behalf of the groups. ladies and gentlemen, dear friends in the european parliament. today, the orange that so many of us have worn and that so many of us have with us here in the european parliament today is the colour of freedom. i think that what i have seen in ukraine, being there for ten days without interruption, gives me the right to say that these days the capital of europe is not, dear members, in brussels, it is not in strasbourg - these days the capital of europe is in kiev, because it is in kiev that millions of our ukrainian brothers are fighting for the most basic european values. i can say that it is with pride and emotion that i look today at the fact that in this house, from left to right, so many of us have come together in defence of the fundamental european values. in defense of freedom, in defense of democracy, in defense of liberty. i'm saying that just because we're orange from left to right today doesn't mean we're supporting one candidate. we don't interfere in the internal affairs of ukraine. we do not want to interfere in the electoral process that is taking place in ukraine, but we want to say clearly and explicitly that the european union, the european parliament, if we want to be proud of this union, and of this parliament, cannot agree to electoral fraud, cannot agree to someone taking away the freedom and the right of the ukrainian people to elect their own president by force, violence and lies. i am glad that the council and commission's position today, that parliament's compromise resolution will be a clear expression of the fact that we europeans, despite our political differences, are firmly convinced that ukrainian freedom and democracy are the goal of europe. i would also like to say that it is a lie and a disgusting provocation to repeat, unfortunately also in this house, that there are elements of a chauvinistic or nationalist nature in president yushchenko's team. it's a pity there are people in this house who would be willing to accept this provocation. i spent ten days on the streets of kiev, standing in the crowd of people fighting for freedom, and i did not meet a single voice that was a voice directed at russians, poles and jews. and to those colleagues in this house who care about anti-semitism in ukraine, i say this: worry about anti-semitism in poland, because there's more of it. i would also like to say that today we have the opportunity, in tomorrow's vote, to send a very clear signal to our ukrainian brothers: europe is opening its doors to you and we hope to see you soon in a united europe.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today, in the face of the ukrainian struggle for basic european standards, it must be said that we are all ukrainians. today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, when ukraine may not be so fashionable anymore, we must show solidarity with those who are fighting in the cold for what is our daily bread - for democracy - although this daily bread has been tasted by a large part of the peoples represented here for a short time. hence our understanding and our solidarity. and this is coming from a country where the concept of solidarity has a special meaning. lech walesa proved this by coming to ukraine on a solidarity mission. can we reverse what happened today, the rigged election? i'm not sure. this was demonstrated in serbia and georgia, where four years ago and a year ago the final victory and seizure of power was won by those who supposedly lost the elections. today we are here with our closest neighbor, the union. but let's also beat ourselves up - what happened is also the fault of the european union, which this year did not give ukraine a clear signal "we are waiting for you, meet the standards". and then before the first round, she didn't tell kuczma, "we'll look at your hands", so that after the forgery in the first round, she would punch the table instead of screaming. let us remember that our attitude, the attitude of the union towards ukraine, is the attitude of a number of nations which in the coming years will answer to themselves and to us the question whether they want democracy and civil liberties. finally, to the representatives of the european commission and the council, who this year have had considerable problems with the position they should take on ukraine, i would like to quote a polish saying: 'if you do not know how to behave, behave decently'. and to you, mr president, i want to say that i am proud to be a member of the european parliament, which today, with its position on ukraine, is saving the honour of europe.
i would like to thank both the european commission and the dutch presidency very much for the decisive action taken last week. i have to be honest, i didn't expect this, and for the first time, after how quickly, immediately, three days after the rigged elections, the european union sent javier solana and aleksander kwasniewski and president adamkus to ukraine, i felt that it was worth joining the european union, that we were in a group that was able to defend a defenseless people who are struggling to break out, who are struggling to gain independence, who are trying to gain freedom. thank you very much. so far, at least in our country, poland, we could only expect such a quick reaction from the united states. i am very pleased that the european union has been faster and more effective this time, because it is the european union that is mediating the conflict in ukraine. ladies and gentlemen, i am an observer of the presidential elections in ukraine and i want to give you this reflection: there were a million people in that crowd in independence square last saturday. and there are many poles, because poles remember the great explosion of solidarity in the 1980s and they see that it is repeated in ukraine at the moment. there are lots of georgians in independence square, lots of georgian flags, because georgians see that what happened to them recently is happening to ukraine. but the independence square is also visited by a mass of young people, students from russia, belarus, because they miss it, they want to breathe a little freedom that they see in kiev, but they don't have it. i am convinced that if the european union supports the emerging democracy and civil society in ukraine, we can make sure that democratic rules prevail throughout the east, throughout the whole area east of ukraine, east of the european union. and this is not a discussion about the division of powers and zones, this is a discussion about the democratic rules that we would all like to see the same throughout geographical europe. ladies and gentlemen, as i will be in kiev tomorrow as a delegate, i would very much like to ask you to accept the amendment which i am reading at the moment, my own and bronisław geremek's amendment, which is to call on the ukrainian government to refrain from putting any pressure on the media, especially the public media, so that the ukrainian people receive objective and impartial information about the candidates and the situation in the country.
it's very difficult to be original in this room today. this is a very good day for the european parliament, because we are speaking out on issues that are of the utmost importance to us, to the european union. this is our largest neighbour, with a 700 km border with the european union. in our 25 countries of the european union, we have a problem of social collapse. but there is a country in europe where voter turnout is almost 80 percent, where several hundred thousand people in many cities stand for 10 days in the cold demanding the right to free, fair elections. the people of ukraine are already ten days late and impatient and certainly exhausted. now it's up to us, the international community, to take the initiative, put pressure on the government and demand fair elections. we should have a clear position on this. here are four, i think, that are the most important. first, to the rulers, avoid any forceful solution. the second is to preserve the territorial integrity of ukraine. third, a repeat of the second round of elections under the supervision of the osce with an electoral ordinance to prevent mass fraud, such as voting away from home. fourth, equal access to the media for candidates. we've forgotten that this was our basic demand before the first round of elections. we also have expectations of ourselves - we need an unprecedented number of observers. a thousand observers are needed for the next round from the 25 countries of the european union, from the european commission, from the european parliament. i ask that we set a figure, share the costs and send the right number of observers. it'll be proof that we're really opening up to ukraine.
judging by the number of orange scarves in this room, the orange revolution has also reached us, the european parliament. this is not surprising, since the germ of freedom and democracy is very contagious and spreads rapidly, as the example of my country, poland, and other central european countries that contracted this disease of democracy and freedom many years ago shows. today, the impossible becomes possible in ukraine. ukrainian society is getting out of the doldrums. ukrainians are demanding their rights and no longer want to be cheated, they want to decide their own fate. we are now witnessing one of the most difficult exams facing ukrainian society, the exam of civic responsibility. but we also face a test today, a test of solidarity. what do i have to do to earn a high grade? first, we need to speak in a clear and transparent language, to speak about the values, the values that we share, that we share with the hundreds of thousands of people who took to the streets of kiev. to speak the language of the proposed resolution. second, debunk the myth. the kind of myths that mr. fava and others have been talking about. ukraine is not divided by geographical orientation, as many would like today, but is divided into those who have already thrown off the yoke of fear and those who have not yet done so. the former should be politically supported, the latter guaranteed a place in the new ukraine. thirdly, we - the european union - must continue to be present in the political dialogue in ukraine. without our international involvement, ukraine is indeed facing the worst of all possible outcomes: chaos and fratricidal fighting. this is the biggest challenge of the day. to avoid this scenario, the european parliament should adopt the proposed resolution without amendments by acclamation and send it to kiev with the entire delegation. the council should maintain the high representative's presence in kiev and present a european perspective for ukraine at the december summit.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. we are against the european union because the problems facing european societies and countries today and tomorrow are not being solved by the union, but on the contrary, the union is exacerbating and accelerating them, leading to an increase in differences, contradictions and conflicts. in the economic dimension, there are two fundamental problems facing europe. the first is economic growth, which is generally lower than in the united states and asia, with all the consequences of high unemployment and declining business competitiveness. the second is the widening income gap between old and rich europe and poor and new europe. and also in the social dimension, we have to talk about two major problems. the first is qualitative, and i am referring to the crisis of the family as the main institution, and consequently also to the second problem, namely the ageing of societies and the mortality of the entire population of europe. the demographic problems mentioned above concern not only belgium, germany and france but also the poor countries of ukraine, romania and poland. if we look at the union's actions or proposals for action in this context, we see that it lacks the vision to solve the problems of economic dynamism, to reduce disparities and, above all, to reverse the trend towards depopulation in europe. has the accession of 10 new countries to the union, the increase in population from 380 million to 450 million, or about 20%, caused any changes in the draft budgets for 2005-06? no, i'm not going. the 2005-06 budget assumes an increase in expenditure of less than 10% and, adjusted for inflation, is below 7%. so this is really the amount of newly admitted countries' contributions. so 2005 and 2006 are lost years from the point of view of the merger of the union, or even worse, we can talk about the widening of the differences. in the context of the budget forecast for 2007-2013, this is a very bad sign. has the budget for 2007-2013 been negotiated and agreed with the new countries? of course you didn't. it was brought to parliament by outgoing commissioners. moreover, the draft is being discussed in parliament's special committee, set up to depreciate the existing budget committee and to spread the responsibility for the adopted solution. these facts show the lack of openness and clarity of the union's procedures, and also the personal games between the council, the commission and parliament. the assumptions of the financial perspective for 2007-13 are not the answer to europe's fundamental problems. adopting the 1% of gdp rule for budgetary levels will only increase economic disparities. worse, the lisbon agenda will cause research and development spending to increase by 300% and go mainly to the old union countries, while spending on structural and cohesion funds will increase by 30%, which will cause the backward countries to increase the distance to the highly developed ones. we are interested in a europe that is free, secure and rapidly developing.
mr president, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am taking the floor in the debate on the questions to the council on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 as the representative of the largest new member state, poland. i am drawing attention to this because in the debate on this matter so far, the majority of the speakers have been representatives of the old 15. this is an important distinction, as the views of the two sides on the financial perspective for 2007-13 are clearly different. in my view, one of the key priorities of this perspective should be to consolidate the renewed economic dynamism in the ten new member states, enabling the european union as a whole to be brought together and balanced. the legal and institutional integration has been achieved, but this process must also be accompanied by the catch-up of the developed part of europe by ten, and in a few years, by a dozen poorer countries. without gradually closing the gap between the development of the rich and the poor, integration across the union will be met with considerable resistance and risk permanently dividing europe a and europe b. it is for this reason that we welcome the prodi commission's proposal to set the level of commitments to the union budget at 1.27% of eu gdp on average, while we do not welcome the position of the six largest net payers to limit the level of these commitments to 1% of gdp. only a higher level of the eu budget than the current one will give a realistic chance of a more significant increase in the structural and cohesion funds, which in turn will allow the implementation of projects with a high development impact in the new member states. this is all the more necessary in view of the expected generous treatment of the regions of the old union, which as a result of the so-called statistical effect will be above 75% of the average eu gdp from 2007. we are not asking for anything extraordinary, given the limitation that has existed since the mid-1990s, which means that the countries benefiting from the structural and cohesion funds can receive no more than 4% of their gdp, which for all ten newly admitted countries is about eur 17 billion per year. these are the questions i address to the representatives of the council of the european union taking part in this debate, which relate to the achievement of one of the main priorities of the enlarged union - reducing the development gap between the old and the new member states.
the preparation of the financial perspective for 2007-13 is taking place in an extremely complex period: a new parliament, a new commission, the european union, a new budgetary authority, a new budgetary authority, a new budgetary authority, a new budgetary authority, a new budgetary authority, a new budgetary authority. the european union has only been in existence for seven months with 25 member states, with further enlargements to come and the lisbon strategy. the timetable and methodology of the work of the interim committee should examine the positions and priorities of the prodis committee, the previous parliament, analyse the current enlargement and plan the next one. this is the task of the new european commission. a specific role should be assigned to the member states. their proposals must be carefully analyzed. the next presidency should make sure of that. the new financial perspective is planning for a few years, or even a dozen years. new conditions can and will emerge within and outside the union. that's a long time, and it's the 21st century. it therefore seems appropriate to review and amend the new financial perspective after three years of operation. after all, in 2009 we will have a new parliament and a new european commission. the right of these important european institutions to make their own proposals and to make certain modifications should already be provided for. however, the main decision, the decisions on the new financial perspective for 2007-13, are the responsibility of the member states and the council. europe cannot be reduced to percentages, let alone 1% of gdp.
on behalf of a political group. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, looking at the relations that are developing between the european union and its neighbours, one thing can be said: the european union suffers from americanophobia and russophobia. in the last few days we have seen this second variant: the fear of russia as a great partner and a great power in the east. the european union has a dwarf syndrome that casts a shadow over relations with russia. today, russia is on trial for its stance on ukraine. there are rumors that russia is interfering in ukraine's internal affairs. what about the european union, our representatives? they go there as observers, and they get involved on the side of one of the candidates. this can't be happening. democracy is about something else entirely. if we want to demand democratic standards from russia, let's demand them from us first, and let's do everything we can to make sure that those standards are upheld by us. we are not authorized to pass judgment on russia in this matter. why is the union interfering in such a way with the sovereign decisions of an independent russian state? putin warned us against interfering in russia's sphere of influence. russia has a right to its own views. russia is our strategic trading partner. the most important thing for us should be the kaliningrad oblast, which borders directly on the european union, borders on poland. it's a window on the world of trade. through our panicked response to the events in ukraine, russia has increased the flow of people through the border crossings with the kaliningrad oblast. we could lose a lot by being schizophrenic about russia. we need to develop relations with this great country, not limit them. in conclusion, i would like to say: enough of the european union meddling in the internal affairs of independent states, in this case russia. it's pushing the eastern part of ukraine against our will into the hands of this state. there's an old roman maxim that i want to end with: first, do no harm. do no harm in relations with russia.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, i would like to refer in my speech to the statement made by the high contracting parties after the 14th union-russia summit, and in particular to the part of it which deals with the implementation of those elements - the common spaces, of course - on which the parties have reached agreement. i think that both the presidency and the commission have, on this issue, succumbed to the disapproval, expressed in large numbers by the russian side before the summit, of the demands, including those of parliament, of members of parliament, that the pca be treated as a single package in the negotiations with russia. in a way, it was a disregard for our voices in this area. i wanted to say one more thing about the ukraine talks: the country with which we are negotiating the roadmap for the implementation of the pca and the country that is actively interfering in the electoral process in ukraine, that is one country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in my country, after 7 p.m., there are children's programs. i understand the chairman likes good night, he likes kids' shows, that's why he left us. but this is a sign of disrespect for the european parliament and i would ask that such situations do not happen in the future. i'm glad we're having this debate today. it could not be replaced by a debate about ukraine, because ukraine is ukraine, and russia is russia, even if russia, or part of russia, thinks or wants to think in terms of the soviet union, or the tsar's empire. i am also glad that mr barroso and mr putin had a difference of opinion at the last summit in the hague, and that was a significant one, not just on ukraine. the sight of smug politicians kissing each other usually boded ill for ordinary citizens, especially in the east. what lessons have we learned from the last few years of relations between moscow and brussels, between russia and the european union? yes, that it wasn't really relations between brussels and moscow, it was relations between russia and the individual countries of the european union, the largest ones: russia and france, russia and germany, russia and the united kingdom, russia and italy. moscow has been choosing its partners for bilateral relations, moscow has been playing the union and has been playing the big countries against the small and medium ones to a large extent. so the only response we can give is solidarity within a united union. russia is an important and difficult partner, and we must not tempt it to develop imperial and power tendencies. western europe and the middle east can't afford it. nor is it in russia's long-term strategic interest.
mr president, there is no doubt that russia is one of the union's most important partners, but there are also few people in europe who doubt that it is a very difficult partner. on the one hand, we have very wide economic links which are beneficial for both sides, on the other hand, there are increasing tensions between us in the political sphere, and there are very significant differences of opinion. contrary to some voices heard in europe, or heard here earlier in this chamber, we should not fear this difference; on the contrary, our experience of countries which for many years were in the so-called soviet sphere of influence shows that only a clear and firm formulation of even very critical assessments of certain elements of russian policy can bring about a real partnership, can bring about respect on the part of the russian partner. in this context, i would like to congratulate prime minister balkenende and the entire dutch presidency on their clear and firm statements at the eu-russia summit on 25 november. the days that followed the summit confirmed and continue to confirm that we were right in our assessment of political developments in ukraine and i would like to remind mr rogalski that ukraine is not part of russia and that therefore speaking out in defence of the free, democratic choice of the ukrainian people is not interference in russia's internal affairs. this is a separate country, a separate people, and i ask you to remember that. the dutch presidency's attitude is restoring the union's face in the eyes of the european peoples after too many european leaders in their previous relations with russia have either pretended or failed to see problems such as the centralisation of power at the expense of a still fragile democracy, russian policy in the caucasus or the reconstruction of the so-called russian sphere of influence. i want to thank mr balkenende for his attitude at the russian summit.
i am pleased to inform you, mr president, that the salami manufacturer iglomet sa sokołów polska has applied for its removal from annex 12 to the treaty of accession. it appears from the file that on 13 february 2004 iglomet sa complied with the requirements of council directive 77/99/eec as regards meat processing and applied to be included in the list of establishments exporting to the european union. so far, the plant management has not received any decision. i therefore ask the president to intervene in this particular case at the european commission and to draw attention to the laxity of the european union institutions and the fact that they are blocking the entry of companies from the new member states into the union's markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask parliament to intervene in the european commission's case for the abolition or temporary suspension of duties on aluminium imported from russia and the commonwealth of independent states to the countries of the new union, in particular poland. these duties were imposed after the enlargement of the union and their rate is 6%. this means a significant reduction in competitiveness for many companies in central and eastern europe, e.g. in poland, this will directly affect companies with 5,000 employees and many thousands of companies related to the aluminium industry. we talk a lot about people who have benefited from the enlargement of the european union, but it's worth saying that there are also people who, through no fault of their own, have less reason to rejoice. we must not be selfish, but we must also help those who are losing out because the european union is wider after 1 may.
the fight against aids should unite all people of good will. unfortunately, the strategy proposed in the joint resolution to fight this, based on the promotion of so-called reproductive and sexual rights, excludes millions of people in europe and the world. millions of people around the world do not believe in the beneficial effects of promoting abortion, contraception, and sex education to ever younger children in violation of their parents' rights without their knowledge or consent. this raises a legitimate moral objection from many people in europe. and there's no proven link between the promotion of these so-called reproductive rights and the decline in aids. on the contrary, we have the experience of some african countries, like uganda, that have significantly reduced the incidence of hiv, not by promoting condoms, but by changing sexual behavior to more abstinence and more responsible behavior. the relentless promotion of so-called reproductive rights is preventing support for this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have two very minor points to make: one for aesthetic reasons, the other for legal reasons. that's the 11th paragraph, the first two lines of that paragraph. i'll read these first two lines in the original english, and then i'll tell you what changes i propose. the european union is also calling on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised. my proposal is that in the first line the word "event" be replaced by "anticipation" and in the second line the word "ratification" be replaced by "adoption". after these amendments, the two lines would read as follows:
mr president, the difficult situation of european soft fruit producers and the processing and storage of soft fruit has led me to ask the european commission on 28 october 2004 what action the commission will take to protect soft fruit plantations, especially in the new member states, and to ensure that they are profitable for both producers and processors. in the commission's reply of 16 november 2004, i was informed, inter alia, that the problems were caused by the abundance of harvests and that polish producers should be able to market their products under the best possible conditions, using the wfd measures. mr president, i did not ask what polish producers should do, i asked what action the commission will take to protect the plantations and ensure a profitable harvest. so i have not received a reply and i am therefore asking the president to intervene. (laughter)
mr president, i wanted to protest against the treatment of members of the european parliament as mechanical voting robots. the speed with which some people vote is an affront to human dignity, and it is also a contradiction to human nature, in which the reaction time of the nervous system and perception is strictly limited. similarly, the work programmes of the various committees are published before meetings in such short time frames that it is physically impossible not only to consult but even to read the content of the individual items, especially since translations, especially from polish, are published literally at the last minute. in poland, we know from experience that attempts to create a soviet man have been disastrous. similarly, the alteration of human nature in the creation of the economic european is a pathological discrimination that negates human dignity, reasonable purpose and rationality, leading to the disregard of people. that is why we oppose attempts to make this parliament a trap, where only the appearance of democracy prevails. (laughter)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, december 13th is the sad anniversary of the introduction of martial law in poland, which was supposed to interrupt a big step towards democracy. i would like to take this opportunity to say that we have heard this statement several times in this chamber, especially from mr schulz, whom i am happy to listen to, in german, not so much in substance, that mr kovács is the hero of what has transformed europe, so i repeat that no, it was not mr kovács who was the hero, but the workers in poland in 1981 - in lublin, in świdnik, then in gdańsk. thank you so much for respecting the true facts of history. (laughter)
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey's accession to the european union could certainly have many advantages. such an advantage would be the expansion of the common market - a great economic advantage. such an advantage would certainly be the strengthening of transatlantic ties. however, on closer examination, it can be seen that both these objectives are relatively easy to achieve without turkey's membership of the european union. the european economic area is a good example of a platform for good economic cooperation with the union of non-eu countries. the relevant security policy reform could be a good deal for turkey as a major strategic security partner of europe. such a privileged partnership for turkey would give us another huge advantage - it would give us a chance to avoid a total crisis of agricultural and cohesion policy. the reform of both these policies, especially the agricultural policy, is obvious and necessary, but it would be very bad if it were to be carried out only under the pressure of turkey's prospects of membership of the european union. such a privileged membership would also give us a chance to avoid the social problems associated with migration - problems that are rife in europe today and that are becoming increasingly difficult to solve. if we want to avoid conflict situations around migration, we should not make a muslim country the largest member state of the european union, and the largest member state of the european union would be turkey in 2020, for example. the social peace that we should be protecting in europe will suffer. the development of relations with turkey should also be much more proportionate to the european policy of openness towards ukraine. this disparity is not ukraine's will, nor is it its fault. in 1963, ukraine was a soviet republic against its will. these are the reasons why we cannot support this report, which has been sweetened in the committee on foreign affairs - a report which we consider to be careless. speaking lightly about turkey's membership of the european union, we are actually building great careers in turkey, which should be our friend. (laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the poles have particular reasons to wish turkey every success with the political and economic reforms it is undertaking. in the 18th and 19th centuries, when poland was under siege and erased from the map of europe and the world for over a century, turkey was the only country that did not recognize this state of affairs. today, turkey and its stable development is important not only for poland, but also for europe and the world. turkey should become a privileged partner of the european union, but not a member. the following factors are against the opening of accession negotiations with turkey: turkey is not a european country, either geographically, religiously or culturally. the political reforms recently undertaken, incomplete and imperfect, still remain at odds with the practice of everyday life. turkey has not regulated its relations with the ethnic and religious minorities living on its territory, nor with its neighbour armenia. turkey does not recognise one of the member states of the european union, namely the republic of cyprus, and occupies part of its territory. i would like to stress that priority should be given to european countries that aspire to join the european union, and ukraine should be the first. in conclusion, the independence and democracy group, which is by definition sceptical of the consolidation of a european superstate, will vote against the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, although it should be in favour, as turkey's accession would obviously accelerate the break-up of the european union. (laughter)
ladies and gentlemen, this is a very bad question. it is not a question of whether turkey is already meeting the requirements of the union or not. the question is whether we want a muslim turkey in a europe built on christian values or not. it's about the progress that turkey has made. i'm a psychologist, and i care about the fate of every human being, but i know that not everything that matters to people can be measured. the emotions and feelings of the people of europe are also important, and they are more inclined to them. i have been observing muslims in brussels for 20 years and i would not want such a large country in the european union to influence the fate of my country, poland. maybe in 50 years, our worlds will be ready to meet, but not before. let's help muslims where they live. let's bring about the rapid establishment of a palestinian state, which suffers a lot from israel - i'm for it. this need is more urgent. we have no obligations to turkey. let's not be hypocrites, let's not be afraid to say no to turkey... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the opening of negotiations with turkey will be a historic event for both turkey and the european union. in today's world, where islam is being used as a tool of conquest, hatred and a deadly weapon in the hands of fanatics, the eu's meeting with ankara presents a unique opportunity to turn the tide of confrontation towards coexistence. to those who fear that turkey's accession to the european union will bring us to the border with iraq and other hot spots in the middle east, i say that we already have these borders in the heart of europe. today, they are civilized and cultural, regardless of their geographical form. the same is true of islam, which is present in europe with several million adherents. muslims, invited as labour in the 1960s, have created a huge group of people on our continent who have not been able to offer a model of integration and coexistence that would allow them to identify with their new homeland, so this is also a problem we have now in the heart of europe. turkey will have to show in the negotiations how honestly and fairly it is addressing the copenhagen requirements. how does he intend to address the issues of religious freedom, the status of women, the recognition of the armenian genocide, the opening of the border with armenia, etc. it will also be a response to those who suspect that turkey's accession to the european union is a way to reduce the influence of the military in public life - the military that has always been the guarantor of the secularity of the state. the opening of negotiations with turkey should make the european union aware that ukraine is an equally important and strategic partner for the union. ukraine should also be given a clear, fast and credible prospect of cooperation and accession to the european union as soon as possible. the ukrainian society has shown extraordinary determination in its commitment to democratic values and must and should receive from us today a response commensurate with this determination.
mr. speaker, the courtroom is almost empty and the arguments are almost exhausted. i don't want to go back to what we all talked about earlier, all of these arguments -- you can take both sides. it's a bit like philosophical doctrines: when you analyze all the arguments and try to find the first source of this philosophical system, it turns out that we have different personalities and somewhere some detail of personality, character decides that such a beautiful philosophical treatise was created, or another, equally beautiful, philosophical treatise. in this case, i think we have a general division of people in this room: some of us look at the possible process of turkey's accession to the european union with hope, some of us look with apprehension, and that is natural. those who look with concern, say for example, have this geographical argument that turkey is in asia. those who look with hope will accept the tennis court theory: that the ball that touched the line is counted as if it were in the middle of the court. that's another way of looking at it. for me, the decisive factor in this whole issue is the opinion of human rights activists in turkey and abroad - first of all, like mrs zana, but not only mrs zana, many others - who, while emphasizing in their reports what is wrong with turkey, say that for them the chance to change is membership of the european union. this is a very important case. we need to ask the people on the inside. ladies and gentlemen, not everyone is against, not all nations are against turkey joining the european union. in a recent poll in poland, 72% are in favour of further enlargement of the european union. there is a fundamental difference.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now turn briefly to the following points in the order in which they were raised by mr barroso. first, the economic issues. the lisbon strategy is a very good idea, but we must remember that if europe is to be competitive with the rest of the world, the economy must first and foremost be based on freedom. we can talk about it being knowledge-based, we can talk about it being social values-based, it's all true. if the economy is not based on freedom, there will be no success in the competitive struggle of europe against the rest of the world. i understand that mr poettering spoke in a similar spirit and i agree with what he said. mr farage said it quite literally, and there was a lot of common sense in what he said: economic freedom, yes, and all the other elements second. you said the environment. yes, environmental protection is very important. environmental protection, yes, but ideological dictates, no. i'm not going to go into that. if i drive twice a week through a very beautiful german landscape and i drive through the screen tunnels not because i want to spare people, but because i want to avoid disturbing any animal and instead of admiring the landscape i have to drive between two screens, that's not good for me. and just like in the beautiful landscape of schwarzwalde, i have to look at these giant electric windmills that are deficitary, worthless, that are subsidized by the german government, that are subsidized by the european union, and they are ruining the landscape, because let's remember that the environment is also when it is a visual environment, and not just an environment for ensuring all possible rights for animals. when we talk about social issues, we have to say that social values are not just democracy, not just tolerance, but also moral values. and i must say that the personnel changes which you made in the draft composition of the commission, following the dictates of the left, were not a good start in terms of the prospects for moral values for europe. foreign affairs. mr. president, foreign affairs is not just turkey and not just north africa. i know that citizens of the old union go on holiday to these countries and live in the streets with people from these countries, but let's remember that foreign policy is also what has so far seemed beyond the eastern border of the european union to be just one, large area of russia, and it's not just russia. there we have ukraine first of all - ukraine, which is a free state and which wants to remain a free state. you spoke of solidarity with africa. solidarity with africa is best secured not by subsidies for these penny-pinching countries, but by eliminating subsidies for the european economy. if subsidies to the european economy are eliminated, then african countries will be able to compete and manage on their own. mr president, in order for this to be, as you said, a collection of wishful thinking, we must be guided by moral principles and common sense. and that's what i wish for you.
mr president, i am glad that president barroso wants to hear the opinion of this house on the work of the commission. here are my notes. since the declaration of the principle of subsidiarity, none of the european union's functions have been returned to the member states. it is time to take subsidiarity seriously, to take the member states seriously and to take seriously the principle that they should not be dictated to in matters which they are perfectly capable of regulating themselves. and over-regulation is the next problem i want to address. stop regulating everything - that's socialist thinking. socialism has already proven that it does not serve the people. let us give back freedom to the member countries. and thirdly, the worst form of regulation is in the common agricultural policy - let's get it over with. first, it is unfair to the poorer countries of the union, especially the former soviet bloc countries. there is one exception: the former gdr - east germany, which since their accession to the union have been treated on an equal footing with the old fifteen. let's eliminate these inequalities. why should a polish farmer be treated worse than a german? the common agricultural policy is also unfair to poor countries outside the union. let's just throw her out. let us give farmers freedom and equality within the union and outside the union. and one last thing: there's a referendum on the constitution. let's make sure they're democratic, that supporters and opponents of the constitution have equal rights, equal access to the public media. democracy in ukraine, in iraq, in palestine is important, but above all, let's keep it in our country. (laughter)
mr president, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the start of the new european commission comes at a time that is probably one of the turning points in the union's history. the first experiences of the last enlargement, the preparations for the next enlargements, including the highly complex debate on turkey's membership, the first analyses of the activities resulting from the adoption of the lisbon strategy and the preparatory work for the new financial perspective for 2007-13 all coincide. it is of the utmost importance to the european parliament, but also to national parliaments, to decide which strategic actions the new commission will consider most important for achieving both the objectives set out in the treaties and the objectives which the current situation and the european union's environment require. it is clear that the member states are at different levels of economic development and that it is therefore necessary, for the good of all the members of the community, to take all possible steps to reduce these differences and thus to facilitate the development of the whole. the reduction of development disparities in an active cohesion policy, pursued for many years in parallel with deepening economic integration, is accompanied by the admission of new countries with relatively low development indicators. this confirms the validity and timeliness of the provisions of the treaties which make the achievement of economic and social cohesion one of the main objectives of the union and which recognise cohesion policy as one of the main community policies, pursued not as a temporary measure dependent on the current situation but as a permanent and inviolable element of community action. all the experience gained so far has shown, and successive commission reports have confirmed, that cohesion policy is not losing its importance and that it requires both substantial financial resources and, above all, the will and determination of those entrusted with the implementation of policies. finally, i express the conviction of many members that the new commission will live up to its expectations and will not adopt the mistaken assumption that there is an alternative: cohesion policy or growth policy. (laughter)
mr president, you are heading a commission of a different union - one with ten new members, one with new frontiers to the east. if these two new parameters are not reflected sufficiently in the commission's strategic policy guidelines, your commission's mandate will not fulfil its historic mission, and we believe that this is your ambition. this mission is to repair the broken and divided europe of yalta. it is the building of a new eastern dimension of the european union. the first objective is the reunification of europe. the completion of actual enlargement through greater economic cohesion and solidarity should be one of the main and permanent objectives of your commission. this should be an objective in itself, not a secondary objective to the lisbon strategy, not a hidden objective within it, but an objective in itself. achieving cohesion by bridging the gap between economic development is also a requirement for good governance in the new union. in accordance with your declaration in this house, you cannot have more europe for less money. you must therefore confront the financial selfishness of net contributors and of those members who leave the cohesion zone because of their success. it is not possible to consolidate the union in a credible way by means of a new constitution, which requires greater political solidarity, while at the same time refusing, or even reducing, economic solidarity. it would be a policy of incoherence and therefore ineffective. i would ask you to defend the amount of the budget as originally proposed by the commission. i suggest that you have a serious discussion with commissioner grybauskaite, who has taken a position in the european parliament which is contrary to yours, as we understand it. the second objective is a new eastern dimension. if we are a community of values, then we should be happy that those values are radiating. we should be exporting democracy and human rights. the commission's policy towards the east should be more firm, more demanding and more rapid on the one hand, and more open and generous to the nascent democracy on the other. this policy should be diversified and conditional. it should encourage democratic choice, like in ukraine. ukraine needs to be offered not just words but actions, to open the door to its european aspirations and to offer something more than the old roadmap prepared for a great democratic transition. we have to offer her an association agreement. the new policy towards the east requires new instruments. the union is threatened by the inertia of old objectives - new challenges require a new dynamic. mr president, you will ensure that this new dynamic is maintained.
mr president, under rule 166 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, i would like to ask on what legal basis someone took miniature national flags from the desks of polish members of parliament from the league of polish families? is there a legal basis for taking someone else's property, and who gave the order? we demand the immediate return of the flag, which is a sacred thing for us and i do not think it would harm the european parliament. (cheers and applause)
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the work on the union's 2005 budget is coming to a close. the commission proposed a budget of €109 billion, the council €105 billion, the parliament €111 billion, and finally €106 billion. the rapporteur, of course, deserves a word of thanks for his work, but the question is: have we succeeded, or is this the right compromise? it's not even the most important thing. more importantly, the result we achieved is below expectations, and i'm not alone in this room, as i see it, in this opinion. the policy of austerity has won out, and it has done so in the face of the enlargement of the union to ten new member states. the illusion that a bigger union could be built with less money has prevailed. the lower the level of expenditure adopted, the more likely it is that the financial perspective for 2007-2013 will be set. the uen group takes note of the 2005 budget as something that is difficult to fight at the moment, but definitely not something to rejoice about. it's also an opportunity for broader reflection. george kennan once said that soviet expansion was the result of the inability to solve internal problems, and i would not like that diagnosis to apply to the european union. unfortunately, the two similarities are quite disturbing. first, there is economic policy. in its cohesion and economic solidarity policies, the union has so far supported the least developed countries in order to help all member states develop. the terms 'economic cohesion and solidarity' are now being deleted from eu agreements. weakening or even abandoning cohesion policy could lead to a deepening of the imbalance in the future. the lisbon strategy will mean abandoning economic policy, which is to say, producing higher quality products at lower cost, in favour of the social policy of the more advanced countries, which is to say, protecting jobs in those countries which are burdened with incredibly high social costs. and secondly, the european union cannot come to terms with its own identity. the best example of this is the story of professor buttiglione, the failure of the integration of muslim communities in western europe, as der spiegel recently reported, or the shape of the preamble to the constitutional treaty. in the meantime, we are discussing the enlargement of the union to include turkey, ignoring the serious problems that separate this country from the union: social, economic, political and cultural problems. in the dispute between the theory of universal norms and the theory of particular norms, we choose no norms at all. those who seek at all costs a federal europe without frontiers, without an ideological identity and a cohesion policy, are working to destroy the union. they are slow, but more effective than those who would destroy it today with radical words. the conclusion is that in the future the union must find a wider field of ideological identity and mobilise more resources to really implement cohesion and solidarity policy. (laughter)
mr president, one of the things i've learned in the committee on budgets that makes life easier is to start by saying thank you, because there's no time. i therefore thank the rapporteur, mr garridze, and mrs jensen, for remembering that the climate of cooperation which distinguishes budgetary work in the european parliament from that of national parliaments is also due to the coordinators, namely mr ferber, mrs guy-quint, mrs trüpel, mr seppänen, mr roszkowski and the vice-president, mr walter, mr böge and mr mulder. i hope that the same spirit of cooperation will prevail on thursday when we mark the end of the year with the 2005 budget. the final shape of this budget emerged from very difficult negotiations with the council. we appreciate the willingness of the dutch presidency, minister nicolaï personally, and commissioner grybauskaite, to cooperate and compromise in these tense hours as moderators of this meeting. it is true that parliament has defended its priorities by resorting to the instrument of flexibility, especially in the areas of internal and foreign policy which are important to us, but in reality, and this is the tone of parliament's speeches today, things look worse when we look ahead to the next multiannual financial perspective and i am convinced that the reduction of structural funds together with the tripartite declaration anticipating the budgetary adjustment is not what we call sound financial programming. 2005 was a year of debuts as a budgetary procedure. the quality of administration is crucial. so i'd like to end by thanking maria josé fialho, mr. alfredo de feo and the entire team. these are the real civil servants - we know how much this is still lacking in post-communist europe and this is the prerequisite for the success of budgetary work in the future.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the union's budgetary perspective should be a debate on the future of europe. the decade 2004-2013 is essentially about welcoming 12 new countries and deciding whether the union will promote european unity and equality of opportunity or divide and deepen inequalities. the debate on the future of europe should not only involve politicians but also, and above all, the scientific, opinion-forming, business and other communities. but the union does not want such a public debate, on the contrary, decisions on the future of europe are taken in the privacy of the cabinets, among bureaucrats and politicians. they decide the tasks and the means, the size and the proportion of the money. during this time, parliament discusses secondary matters and the possibility of extending its powers. even if parliament's powers are extended, there will still be no time left to prepare its own draft budget, which would tackle two of the most important issues: how to accelerate the pace of economic development and how to reduce the gap between the poor and rich regions of europe. and a new budget is needed because the commission's draft, both in its wording and in the figures it proposes, contradicts the idea of solidarity and a rapidly developing europe. the best example of this is the fact that the old 15 countries, and therefore the rich ones, are to receive more than 194 billion euros from the cohesion fund, while the 10 new countries, and romania and bulgaria, will receive only 180 billion euros, and yet it must also be remembered that a significant part of this second sum will return in the form of salaries of advisers, experts, contracts to the rich countries. in our view, the european parliament should, in opposition or in agreement with the commission and the council, present its own draft budget, guided by three principles: firstly, a bigger union - a bigger budget; secondly, greater disparities in development - more money for the lagging countries and regions; and thirdly, tax and investment and other preferences for the lagging countries and regions.
i'm resuming the hearings. we are continuing to discuss the preparation of the next financial framework. the vote is for mr. silva peneda, two minutes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work on the new financial perspective is taking place in very complex circumstances and is therefore accompanied by a great deal of controversy. this may have been the case in previous years, but it is surprising to members from the new member states that issues are being considered that might not seem to be discussed every time. firstly, the proposal to limit the budget to 1% is not motivated by a desire to save or to rationalize expenditure, but by a plan to redirect funds and to show that they can be better used in national policies. we are therefore witnessing a reduction in the scope of community policies, which is not surprising for those who support a coordinating union, but is surprising for those who support a strong union. the reduction in revenue and expenditure affects all member states directly, as it requires a change in the structure of the funding of cohesion policy and a reduction in its scope, thus affecting in particular the weakest member states, which should be the main beneficiaries of this policy. secondly, we are witnessing a new interpretation of cohesion policy, which is increasingly moving away from its foundation, namely the principle of solidarity in bearing the burdens of both development delays and the growing disparities that are inevitably associated with economic integration. the efforts of those governments in the council of the union, which are strongly opposed to the modification of the relevant provisions and the abolition of the principle of support for the least developed countries, should therefore be fully supported. the comparison comes from the world of sports, where players are recruited to play on a football team, willing to go through the rigors of training, and eager to fight and win, only to be told on the field that the rules have changed and that they will actually be playing rugby. no wonder the players are so surprised and unpleasantly surprised. we are counting on the commissioner and the whole commission to ensure that the rules are not changed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i take the floor in this debate on the commission's questions on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 as the representative of the largest new member state, poland. i stress this point because the votes of the meps from the old 15 are predominant in this debate, but the views of the representatives of the new and old member states on the financial perspective 2007-2013 are clearly different. the first problem i want to point out is the size of the budget for this period - 1% of gdp, as the six so-called net payers want, or 1.14% of gdp, as the prodigy commission wanted, in terms of payments. the difference in absolute terms is estimated at around eur 180 billion, i.e. around eur 25 billion less in each year of this financial perspective. this is a gigantic sum from the point of view of the new member states, and it is absolutely necessary to reduce the development gap between the old and the new member states if the division into europe a and europe b is not to be permanent. the second problem is the appropriations for the structural funds and the cohesion fund, and in particular their allocation to the regions of the old union which will be affected by the so-called statistical effect. the commission's generosity is all too evident here. for these seven years, they are expected to receive a total of eur 194 billion, while the new union's regions are expected to receive only eur 181 billion. it should be recalled that at least two new member states will be admitted during this period and that the aid covers the entire territory of all twelve countries. the third problem is to limit the structural and cohesion funds to 4% of the gdp of the member state, i.e. for the ten new member states, no more than eur 20 billion per year. it appears that the level of this limit should be increased to at least 5% of the member state's gdp. i hope the commissioner will address the three problems i have raised.
thank you very much. the list of speakers has been exhausted. i understand the commissioner has no plans to abstain, so i'm closing the debate. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
we now come to the next item on the agenda, the report (a6-0051/2004) by mrs jean lambert, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the asylum and protection procedure in regions of origin [2004/2121 (ini) ]. i call the debate and ask for the floor, mrs. lambert.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of asylum is not a technical one, it is a political and social one. for decades, the european union's member states have had a lax policy on asylum, especially for those from other continents. today, it is clear that this policy has failed, fueling racial and political extremism among both guests and hosts. moreover, these bad asylum policies have weakened - note - the trust of many societies in european integration, which is associated, rightly or wrongly, with an overly open asylum policy. it can't go on like this, it's obvious. the right balance must be struck between human rights, democracy and the security of citizens. i am glad that in its resolution, the european parliament underlines in the second paragraph the need to 'act to increase the protection of potential asylum seekers in the areas from which they come'. it's the right course of action. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress that the problem of asylum will continue to grow in a relatively rich europe.
thank you very much. thank you. the list of speakers was therefore exhausted. i understand that the commissioner does not see the need to abstain and i close the debate by reminding him that the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, the report (a6-0067/2004) by mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft european parliament recommendation to the council on an eu drugs strategy (2005-2012) [2004/2221 (ini) ]. the rapporteur, mr catania, will be asked to speak.
thank you very much. thank you. the list of debaters has been exhausted. i understand that the commissioner does not see the need to abstain, so i will close the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0049/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament regulation on maximum residue levels of pesticides in and on food and feed of plant and animal origin and amending council directive 91/414/eec [9262/1/2004 - c6-0110/2004 - 2003/0052 (cod)) (rapporteur: robert sturdy). i call the rapporteur, mr robert sturdy, to speak.
thank you very much. thank you. the list of speakers has been exhausted. i understand that the commissioner does not see the need to withhold his vote, and in that situation i am closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that this time minister nicolaď will not leave parliament, as he did during the last debate on the union's relations with russia. mr barroso, who has now left, said that the december summit would be a great step towards building a richer europe. judging by what minister nicolaď said, it will be a small step, not a step, and it's rather timid. i have the impression, and i am not alone, that the council is working without any serious vision, without any long-term strategy, that the council is functioning on a case-by-case basis, that it is merely reacting to problems, and that there is no long-term plan of action to avoid these problems. lack of strategy is a grave sin, and that lack of strategy is the problem. today the council speaks a lot and well about ukraine, but if the council had said a few months ago very clearly, clearly, as part of its long-term strategy, that ukraine, not today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but maybe at the same time as turkey would enter the european union, then this situation would not have been in ukraine, because the authorities there would not have allowed themselves to rig elections on such a scale. i thank mr barroso, who is not here, for his support for a larger budget for the european union, because this additional 114 billion euros over seven years will be used for the development of the union, including the development of the new member states.
mr president, mr president barroso, you have spoken a lot about european identity here and we all talk about it often, but european identity must be built above all on common security and a common economic area. how can we talk about european identity if there is no solidarity, and that solidarity is lacking when financial decisions are being taken. if parliament's proposal - and i recall that you spoke of parliament's important role in setting the financial framework - cuts parliament's proposal from eur 111 billion to eur 106 billion, where is the financial solidarity, where is the basis for building a european identity? if we want to build a european identity as a common security area, as a common economic area, we must tell ourselves what the limits of enlargement are. if turkey is proposed to join, and perhaps morocco will be proposed soon, and ukraine is omitted, then there can be no european identity unless there is also an identity in this respect. (laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on turkey's accession to the european union, which has been going on for several months, is coming to an end, and i would like to congratulate myself and you on having had such a thorough debate and to wish that every important decision be preceded by such a debate. at least four model positions emerged from this debate on turkey's accession to the european union. the first is the classic position: under this model, negotiations should start as early as next year, with the possibility of suspension if it turns out that there are difficulties or obstacles on the turkish side. the second position is to open negotiations with the possibility of offering turkey, in the same case, an alternative solution during these negotiations, should it prove that these difficulties exist - offering a special, privileged partnership. the third position is to wait until turkey fully complies with the copenhagen criteria, i.e. we multiply the conditions at the moment, knowing that these copenhagen criteria have not been fully complied with. and finally, the fourth position, which is the special, privileged partnership. i understand that parliament's decision is to opt for the first model, i.e. to start negotiations next year without any additional conditions, and i also understand that the council's decision is also going in that direction. it will be a landmark decision - a decision in which the member states, the union and the council have a huge responsibility, a decision to embark on a path which is a path of enormous responsibility. these conditions are not only on the turkish side, but also on the side of the member states, the commission, the council and parliament. they are all the more difficult, and this responsibility is all the more difficult, because we are dealing with a child (there were such terms referring to marriages, i am referring to a family with an adopted child). turkey is in a sense an adopted child and we realize that the responsibility of the family, the parents in the case of adopting a child is particularly great. i would like us to be fully aware of this and to start to put our european house in order.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind all those members who voted for and those who voted against that this vote does not yet decide - perhaps not yet - whether turkey should be admitted to the european union. this vote supports the opening of negotiations with turkey, and it is on these negotiations, and the outcome of these negotiations, that turkey's membership of the european union will depend. i have a feeling not all the mps know about it yet.
in writing. turkey's accession to the european union could have many benefits - most notably the expansion of the common market and the strengthening of transatlantic ties. however, both these objectives are achievable without turkey's membership of the european union. the european economic area is a good example of a platform for good economic cooperation with the union. security policy reform could be a good deal for turkey as a major strategic partner of europe in this area. such a privileged partnership for turkey would give us a chance to avoid the crisis of agricultural and cohesion policy. if we want to avoid conflict situations due to migration, we should not make a muslim country the largest member state of the european union in the near future (turkey's population will reach about 90 million people in 2020) the development of relations with turkey should also be much more proportionate to the european policy of openness towards ukraine. these are the reasons why we cannot support the report by mr eurlings. we consider him to be careless because he maintains this position despite the existence of important reasons for opposing turkey's membership of the eu. as we speak today about turkey's prospects of membership of the european union, we are building great careers in turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope mr posselt will also commend me in a moment. i don't like this black and white film that the european commission is proposing - a film called "ugly romania, cool bulgaria". politics, like life, doesn't like black and white movies. neither is romania so bad, nor is bulgaria as rosy as the amateur painters of the european commission paint it. yes, bulgaria has made progress, yes, bulgaria should have joined the european union on january 1, 2007, but at the same time, bulgaria has not done many of the things that it should have done. in particular, firstly, what is the point of bulgarian law being compatible with eu law if implementation - the implementation of this law - is still too slow. second, human trafficking, especially of women and children, continues to be a serious problem. thirdly, the adoption system, its lack of transparency and the situation in bulgarian orphanages and special schools continue to raise doubts. fourthly, the situation of adults in psychiatric hospitals is a matter of concern - all of which is contained in the draft resolution of our parliament. finally, fifth, the real achilles' heel for sofia is the still unreformed justice system, which is far from european standards. finally, sixth, the great corruption that is the ball in the foot of bulgaria's accession to the union, which affects different areas and levels of power and is visible at every step. i've been to bulgaria twice in the last few weeks, and what i'm saying is not really just read in the reports, but it's visible to the naked eye. and finally, number seven: organized crime. the bulgarian authorities are behaving like a chinese opera choir: the choir sings "let's run, let's run" in three acts, and it stays still. the bulgarian government says all the time that we are fighting the mafia, but i think it's mostly a war of words. it's still a serious problem. on the other hand, the eu sometimes acts in ways that are incomprehensible to the bulgarian public, for example, they recently demanded the closure of the kozloduy power plant, which has been modernized in recent years at the expense of huge amounts of bulgarian taxpayer money. in conclusion, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite these reservations, it is a good thing that a nation with a history of over 1300 years - longer than many of the present members of the union - is joining the european family. bulgaria, welcome to the place you should have been long ago. in the union - europe of the fatherland - you will be at home.
council. madam president, i appreciate the positive remarks from members of parliament with regard to the accession of bulgaria. mr posselt, mr maat, mrs dobolyi and others were clear on that issue. members said that there are still a lot of concerns. that is true. that is precisely the reason why we have the framework, the procedure, with extra monitoring and an extra benchmark and, if necessary, an extra sanction, an extra safeguard for an extra year before the moment of accession. with regard to the financial issue raised by mr maat and others, i do not think we need to be concerned. the financial consequences of accession are already covered in the so-called financial package for the years 2007-09. that is irrespective of the new financial perspective. an important issue that was raised again today is the importance of having an individual approach to different countries. you know the formal position - one treaty for romania and bulgaria. it is important, and necessary, to differentiate. that is precisely what we want to do in the wording of the conclusions next thursday or friday in the council, concentrating on the different chapters. if necessary we can differentiate at the moment of actual accession, because there is the possibility of postponing accession for a maximum of one year. i thank the rapporteur, mr van orden, for his adequate and balanced report. i really welcome its conclusions.
the commission. mr. speaker, i promise to speak slowly and without hesitation. i thank you for the substantive discussion and for the points which generally support the commission's recommendations. i'm just going to answer a few basic questions. i shall first speak about the romanian and bulgarian coup. it is true that a joint accession treaty is being prepared for these countries, but on the other hand, as mr nicolaï has so well described, both are being treated on their merits, especially now towards the end of the process, when the monitoring system and the safeguard clause operate in such a way that each country is assessed on the basis of its ability to implement the reforms and commitments that must be fulfilled before the countries can join the union. i would also stress that bulgaria is not yet ready for membership, and that it still has a lot of work to do, but at the same time it has every opportunity to fulfil these commitments so that it can join the union on 1 january 2007. i shall now turn to the subject of corruption, which received a great deal of attention in the speeches. that is absolutely right and i agree with those views. bulgaria has recently developed a determined strategy to combat corruption. it will focus in particular on the development of border control and the traffic police and the functioning of the institutions in general, and on combating corruption in the bulgarian administration. this is in fact the focus of the four sub-programmes under the phare programme and it will be a focus even more strongly in the next two years, 2005 and 2006. and thirdly and lastly, i shall deal with the situation of minorities and in particular the situation of the roma. in bulgaria, new anti-discrimination legislation has recently been adopted and entered into force. it entered into force in january this year and is currently being implemented in conjunction with the action programme on anti-discrimination and the improvement of the status of minorities. we are monitoring very closely the implementation of this new legislation and the action programme that supports it. i am also glad that other european organisations, such as the council of europe, our neighbour, are paying attention to this issue and are working to strengthen the position of the roma. we would all have been present at the opening of the rome forum of the council of europe at 12 noon today, but at the same time we were discussing and you were voting on the very important report on turkey, so unfortunately we were not able to be there. i thank the european parliament for its support and for its support and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr van orden, and bulgaria, which i hope will set an example for the whole balkan region.
the next item is the report (a6-0061/2004) by mr pierre moscovici, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the progress made by romania towards accession (ini 2004/2184). i'd like to ask mr. moscovici to speak. you have five minutes.
council. mr president, i will be brief. i have heard many positive remarks, most of which i agree with. of course, there were also many concerns expressed, many of which i also agree with. there were some critical remarks, with which i do not agree, from mr ferber, mr lagendijk and others, that romania is not ready to close the negotiations. i emphasise that we, as a presidency and as a council, base our position on the assessment of the european commission. romania is not ready for accession, which is why we feel it is important to have two more years to achieve the whole framework for the negotiations, as we discussed before, with extra guarantees and extra safeguards. in response to mr lagendijk's remarks, we do not need unanimity in the council for using this extra safeguard clause – the possibility of postponing the accession for a maximum of a year. no, precisely in the area of justice and home affairs which he mentions – as many members did – and also in the sensitive area of competition, we only need a qualified majority for using the extra safeguard clause. the rapporteur, mr moscovici, mr meijer and others made some remarks about signals from romania that the president-elect wants to renegotiate the results. the president-elect seems to have noticed critical remarks about the idea of reopening some chapters. we learned from bucharest that mr basescu is emphasising the efforts to be made before january 2007, which leave no room for reopening the final results of the negotiations. in a short reply to mr ferber about the financial consequences of accession, i repeat what i said about bulgaria. the financial consequences are already arranged in the financial package for 2007-2009, irrespective of the new financial perspective. let me conclude with my compliments to mr moscovici. his report addresses all the important areas in a constructive and even-handed way.
the commission. i would like to add my support to the president-in-office's congratulations to the rapporteur, mr moscovic, and to make a few comments and to answer some of the key questions raised in this debate. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. i thank him for this and stress that this must continue to be the guiding principle of all enlargement policy. i see that after the great upheaval of last spring we are now going to make gradual and moderate progress in the enlargement of the european area of peace and democracy. we will consult candidates gradually and moderately, carefully and thoroughly. in this respect, i generally understand the points made by mr ferber. i'm sorry he didn't have time to hear my answer. when ferber asked the eu, that is, us, to be honest, i agree that we must assess the impact of all enlargement solutions and we must stick to the criteria. that is why we have introduced a safeguard clause in the justice, home affairs and competition chapters. this safeguard clause can be introduced by qualified majority, which makes it credible and encourages romania to work and strive for results. many speakers have also rightly drawn attention to the challenges romania faces, including improving the environment and the status of minorities, as well as promoting the fight against corruption and crime. these are areas which we are continually monitoring and will return to in depth in the next autumn's monitoring report. we then evaluate the progress made in the months ahead. the new romanian government has a thousand euro chance to show that it is indeed capable of fulfilling its commitments and reforming romanian society and institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it's not hard to agree with. however, they are not within the remit of the enlargement commissioner and should rather be addressed through infringement procedures or by pursuing the matter using the instruments of the european court of human rights. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr moscovis, and i share his view, as well as that of mr szent-iványi, that it is in the interests of both the european union and romania that romania should be ready in 2007. this depends first and foremost on romania's willingness and ability to reform the state and society. the commission will do its part to support romania in its efforts to avoid the need to use the safeguard clauses described above.
the debate is closed. the vote will be at 11.30 a.m. tomorrow.
council. the council would refer the honourable member to the answer it gave to question h-0399/04, by ryszard czarnecki, during question time on 17 november 2004, in which it suggested that the honourable member should put his question to the commission.
mr president, mr minister, i am sorry to inform you that i have asked the european commission for help, but i have not received a satisfactory answer. i must complain to you, if you will, about the disturbing mess that has been created by this case and the bureaucratic blockage, which may be deliberate. it is difficult to clearly identify the unit which is competent to decide on the rules for the import of aluminium from russia, the cis countries. poland has repeatedly requested the european commission to reduce this duty, but unfortunately these requests were rejected without giving clear and substantive reasons. hence my appeal and request to the minister to show an active attitude and help polish, and not only polish, entrepreneurs in this matter.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i'm very pleased that the commissioner is the right man in the right place. not all of your colleagues are, but it's not your fault. the role of the european parliament is growing, both within the structures of the european union and in the public opinion of the member states. in the 25 years of the european parliament being directly elected, today is the day when our parliament is of the greatest importance. but we should not be satisfied with the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in competitive or procedural games within the european union. the role of the european parliament must be to promote democracy in the world more than ever, to inform people about the values and standards which, although we are not perfect societies and systems, mean that there are less wars and more dialogue, less violence and more compromises, less institutional aggression and more international and institutional cooperation on our continent. this is not about promoting european values, it's about informing about a style of politics that is about seeking the common good, about promoting participation in power at every level. that is the role of the european union today, that is the role of the european parliament today. and the question is: is 100 million euros too much to promote democracy in the world? it's certainly not enough, but even five times that amount is actually a lot less than the cost of treating the effects of a lack of democracy. aid to victims of civil and international wars that break out because politicians in many countries really only know the concept of democracy from a dictionary of foreign words - this aid will cost much more. of course, when we give more than 100 million euros, we have to look at our hands, we have to control both our institutions and the organizations that receive the money. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcmillan-scott, very much for his work and i hope that we in parliament will continue to work together on this issue, across political divides, in the direction that the commissioner and the rapporteur have been talking about.
mr. speaker, your honor, there are terrible things happening in the transportation of animals. animals suffer because of man's callousness and thoughtlessness. improving their lot is a challenge to our humanity. it is not only a matter of being sensitive to animal cruelty, but also of realizing that cruelty to animals is only a short step from cruelty to humans. the regulation in question is moving in the right direction. it introduces higher, but still insufficient, standards for the protection of animals during transport. there is hope that animals will suffer less. i am glad to hear that, as a member of parliament, i was elected by the votes of the polish farmers. in poland, mostly small family farms, animals are treated with care, almost as if they were a part of their lives. farmers are upset when their animals are sold and then treated cruelly. this regulation is a step forward, but it does not solve the problem. legislation must be accompanied by effective enforcement, and that's the problem. poland, for example, a vast transit country, has a problem with horse transport. legal standards are in place, but the control authorities, the police or the veterinary inspectorate, are often at a loss as to what to do about irregular transport, for example, where animals are injured. there is no network of stopping points where transported animals can be fed, watered, given the necessary veterinary care, and in extreme cases slaughtered as necessary. the european union should provide financial support for the creation of a network of such points; in any case, poland needs such assistance. ladies and gentlemen, the real breakthrough in the transport of animals will be the complete abolition of long-distance transport. animals should be slaughtered near their place of production. not only are there humanitarian reasons for this, but also health reasons, because, as a recent report by the court of auditors has shown, animals being moved abroad are virtually uncontrolled. ladies and gentlemen ... (the president cut off the speaker)
yes, mr. chairman, a point of order on the same grounds on which you granted mr. schulz permission to speak. well, i would say that this is a clear violation of the rules of procedure and also of the principles of good taste. mr. schulz doesn't understand that besides the law, there is a spirit and a moral code. i wanted to remind you of that. (laughter)
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i would like to explain that in amendment no 127 in the third part, concerning the financing of international youth day, i voted in favour of it because it is not part of an official state visit but a meeting of european christian youth for the noblest of purposes. it is only mr schulz's ideological obsession that prevents him from seeing how much the meeting of young people with the holy father can bring to europe, and it is only his ideological obsession and his reluctance to look at the matter honestly and honestly that has led him to confuse it with the official visit of a head of state, such as the pope, to the federal republic of germany. (laughter)
on behalf of a political group. among the various violations of human rights and democracy in africa, the involvement of children in armed conflict is a particularly important issue. i wanted to ask whether any debate, even in the european parliament, can counteract poverty in the third world, where more than five billion people live on one or two dollars a day, and in the congo there is a bloody war, where more than 300 000 children are used in armed interventions, where more than three million people have recently been killed. is child abduction through forced labor, military conscription, or sexual exploitation not an irresponsibility and a failure of various humanitarian and international organizations? to counteract such tragedies, we must know the causes, the main one being the long-term and all-round exploitation of the third world countries by certain powers, including the european powers, which enrich themselves and impoverish the colonies they plunder. the devastated congo is the victim of exploiters who value the country's rich natural resources above human life. i think that the measure of the progress of human civilization, including those in power, should be a responsible attitude towards the most vulnerable, but they cannot only be helped by the introduction of moral devastation, contraception, abortion, but they must be surrounded by care, allow development and cure malaria, tuberculosis, aids that are rampant there, and also help the family in its healthy development. i also think that instead of sending troops and trainers to iraq, we should take action to bring peace to the congo.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something different in this debate today. we usually debate important issues, but issues that concern financial prospects, communications solutions, economic issues - very important but not tragic. the three points of our debate this afternoon, but particularly the third point on bhopal, is about one of the greatest tragedies that has happened in the last few decades. it speaks of a tragedy, when the gas explosion led to consequences that immediately caused the tragedy of tens of thousands of people and to consequences that unfortunately continue to this day through the fault of the institutions and individuals that we will be listing in a moment. ladies and gentlemen, the organizations that were responsible for what happened that day have confessed because they have paid compensation for 15,248 deaths. they paid out compensation, trying to pay out as few people as possible, for 554,895 cases of illness or disability. ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that the total number of people who were affected by the bhopal gas explosion twenty-five years ago is over 100,000, and those who are still suffering from the effects of the polluted environment are in the millions. and then what happened? ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the settlement, as a result of various court decisions, the guilty party, union carbide corporation of india, has paid $470 million in damages. it would seem like a lot, but the victims of that explosion received less than 10% of it. who took the rest of the money? the rest of the money went to the lawyers (and to put it in a nutshell, dickens liked to describe predatory lawyers a hundred and fifty years ago, but even in dickens' novels from a hundred and fifty years ago, you don't find a case where the victim gets nothing). ladies and gentlemen, the money is gone. apart from lawyers, the costs were allegedly high because corrupt officials had to be paid. the situation where everyone but the victims profits from this tragedy is unacceptable. ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a conspiracy that needs to be corrected and our resolution that we are about to pass today is designed to do just that. ladies and gentlemen, we must try to reassess the damage, to pay compensation to those who deserve it. we must bring about the establishment of bodies that will solve this problem in a just way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate you on your appointment and wish you every success. ernest hemingway said, "don't ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for you". it is good that the european parliament is concerned with those regions of the world which are far from europe and that it does so independently of the demands of political interests. the european union, on the one hand, declares its strategic partnership with india, and on the other hand, in a resolution of our parliament, it states that the indian government has done little to protect the people in the wake of the bhopal disaster. we speak well of the negligence of the indian authorities, but let us also speak strongly of the responsibility of the american corporation, which has presented a savage nineteenth-century capitalism, without respecting even part of the security conditions that were dogma in the usa. let's look at the numbers: 7,000 killed immediately after the disaster, up to 30,000 people dead in the 20 years since, over 100,000 sick to date. of course, statistics do not reflect human suffering, but rather, they mask the pain and tears. bhopal must be a warning: for governments to create rescue systems and not leave people alone, for international corporations not to let the desire for profit replace security, for international structures and organizations to support disaster-hit regions. and finally, mr president, we must also be accountable for the aid we give to those who receive it from us or from anyone else.
