mr president, i would like to thank the members who have already signed a document of solidarity with women accused of having had abortions in the new trial in portugal. there will be another session tomorrow at the court of aveiro. after the trial of maia, about two years ago, new situations have not stopped arising. despite the european parliament resolution we voted on here on 3 july 2002, which recommends that member states do not take legal action against women who have abortions, a law in portugal which is out of step with social reality, an inhuman and cruel law for women, which throws them into the underground, treats them as criminals and puts them in the dock, with penalties of up to three years in prison, remains in force. so, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to show solidarity with these women and to appeal to the assembly of the republic of portugal to tackle the problem of clandestine abortion by resolving it and ending the legislation that condemns women. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the catastrophe of the oil tanker prestige in november 2002 and its serious consequences are still very much alive in northern portugal. but we know that marine pollution from oil spills or other harmful substances continues even without accidents. illegal dumping and cleaning up on the high seas or even near the coast must be punished. but we also know that the fight against these illegal discharges requires not only more legislation but above all more effective supervision, by equipping the member states with the appropriate means and facilities, by requiring compliance with existing standards, by abolishing flags of convenience, by serious and well-structured record keeping of the history of ships, their movements and loads, by establishing maritime corridors further from the coast, by adequate inspection of ships in ports and by improving working and safety conditions on board. it is well known that the marpol convention is ignored daily by a large number of ships sailing in community waters, because the central objective of certain shipowners and oil companies is to obtain the maximum profit at the minimum cost. on the other hand, tackling discharges requires not only effective action at member state level and greater cooperation between member states, but also more effective implementation at global level. the creation of a european coastguard will not solve this problem. it also does not solve the problem of the lack of adequate facilities in ports for ship-generated waste and the obligation on ships to use these facilities. it is necessary to require compliance with existing directives and other standards, including the information and monitoring system - which another directive has already established - and in particular with regard to the installation of devices for recording data during voyages on certain ships, without which it will be difficult to prove the guilt or innocence of the crew of ships which cannot be treated as criminals before their guilt has been proven. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the responsibility of the member states and their governments is therefore required, and this responsibility must be fully assumed in the implementation of the various existing conventions and directives.
mr president, better late than never, as the people say. the current proposal for a council decision is based on the idea of tightening the civil and criminal liability of maritime transport, which generates pollution, and has allowed, in line with the commission's position on the directive and the traditional positions of the european parliament, that parliament to improve the initial text with two amendments which i consider very relevant. and they were unanimously approved. the first is to extend the scope of criminal liability to conduct which results in substantial harm to persons, going beyond the restrictive criterion of death or serious injury. the second, along the same lines, extends the liability of offenders beyond damage to species of fauna or flora to substantial damage to the protected environment, which is nature, the whole framework of marine and coastal life subject to the risk of pollution. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mr giuseppe di lello finuoli, who has had them approved. the new legal framework on marine pollution and the future lisbon maritime surveillance agency, which the brussels council set up last month, give us reason to believe that europe is finally taking its responsibilities. it would be illogical for europe to have the power to regulate the resources of the sea without first having the means to protect them.
- thank you very much, commissioner loyola de palacio. - i have a lot of work to do. the bureau notes that there are indeed considerable temperature fluctuations inside the building and hopes that this time, thanks to your caution, you will not get sick. we'll try to improve conditions throughout the building. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0442/2003 by mr vidal-quadras roca, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive (euratom) on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste (com (2003) 32 - c5-0229/2003 - 2003/0022 (cns)) and - a5-0441/2003 by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive (euratom) laying down the basic obligations and general principles concerning the safety of nuclear installations (com (2003) 32 - c5-0228/2003 - 2003/0021 (cns)).
in writing. in this debate on the herzog report on the green paper on services of general interest (sig) , which the economic and monetary affairs committee of the european parliament has tampered with, we insist on the need to adopt proposals which recognise the importance of quality public services, guaranteeing the right of access for all citizens while respecting the specificities of each country. the consequences of liberalization in the sectors affected are already evident, not only in redundancies and increased job insecurity, such as in railways, energy, post and telecommunications, but also, in many cases, in higher fares and prices and in the poorer quality of services provided to the population. this situation is spreading to ever wider areas, particularly in portugal. despite the recognition of the role of public services, which they call services of general interest, by subjecting them to the rules of competition their social role as essential public services for the population, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the guarantee of human rights, the regional development of deprived areas, the protection of the environment and economic and social cohesion is devalued. we insist on the adoption of proposals which promote the defence of public services and the defence of a democratic and pluralistic assessment of the impact of the market and competition, taking into account the need for quality public services and the negative consequences of the liberalizations and privatizations already carried out in various areas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is responding today to the commission communication on the framework for european regulatory agencies, in which, following the white paper on governance, the commission sets out in general terms the conditions for the creation of new agencies, the regulatory framework within which they should carry out their activities and the specific responsibilities of the commission in the supervision of the respective agencies. the first word, commissioner, is to congratulate you on the initiative and also on the general criteria contained therein. parliament notes with satisfaction that its positions, already expressed in the resolution on the white paper, have been taken into account by assigning the responsibility for the creation of agencies, or an explicit choice made on a case-by-case basis by the legislator, through an act based on the provision of the treaty which constitutes the legal basis of the respective community policy to be implemented. an important point to be made is the recognition of the judicious and parsimonious use of the creation of new agencies. they will only be justified in areas of high scientific or technical expertise, where there is a precise delimitation of the tasks to be carried out, within a framework of responsibility and autonomy which does not call into question the unity and integrity of the executive function or diminish the commission's political accountability to parliament and the council. but like everything in life, there's always a "but". the report we are presenting today, however, regrets that the commission has restricted the scope of its communication to the so-called regulatory agencies to be set up in the future within the institutional framework of the ec treaty. it regrets that no reference has been made to the existing agencies, whereas we all agree on the need to make a thorough assessment of the performance of the existing agencies, the urgency of proposing some reformulation of their tasks and competences, and the need to update the structure and composition of their bodies. these are concerns, as you know, mr commissioner, which parliament has been expressing to the commission through the parliamentary committees most directly involved in monitoring the functioning of the agencies and which we are stressing once again today. it also regrets that no reflection has been given to the consequences of the profound changes proposed in the draft european constitution, namely the end of the pillar structure, the introduction of a hierarchy of rules and the explicit introduction of judicial review of the agencies' acts. it will be important to know them in order to outline the future regulatory environment of the agencies in a more complete, coherent and bold way. as regards the narrow scope of communication, parliament's main concern will always be to ensure the unity and integrity of the executive function at european level and the corresponding political responsibility of the commission. but you will also understand that parliament will pay particular attention to the rules which will enable the tasks to be carried out in a transparent and effective manner, the filling of posts and the management of the expenses of the future agencies. we will therefore pay particular attention in the proposal for the future regulatory framework to the rules applying to the agencies all the requirements for good administration, for compliance with legislation on transparency, access to documents, rules on protection against fraud and protection of the financial interests of the community. i would like to conclude by thanking the committee on legal affairs, the committee on budgets and budgetary control for their competent and informed opinions and all the members who, with their participation, were also co-authors of this report. we look forward, commissioner, with confidence to the initiative on the legal framework for agencies which the commission will present in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs teresa almeida garrett, who, in my view, has done a very good job in presenting a clear and concise analysis of the whole problem of agencies in this report, and of which i would like to highlight very briefly the following points, because they are relevant: - the urgency of the commission's clarification of the appropriate legal instrument for defining the general framework for the conditions for the creation of these agencies, which obviate the risks highlighted here by mr manuel medina ortega; - the need for parliament's serious and permanent involvement in the choice of the members of the executive body and in monitoring the activities of these agencies; - the need to monitor the legality of the acts carried out by the regulatory agencies and their executive bodies, in addition to what is provided for in the draft constitution drawn up by the european convention. we hope that the commission will take account of the proposals contained in the report by mrs teresa almeida garrett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, and i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done here.
mr president, i am grateful for the debate we have requested, although i regret that other political groups have not accepted the tabling of a motion for a resolution on the negotiations in the world trade organization. the fact is that the lack of agreement at the wto ministerial summit in cancun has reaffirmed the need to suspend and reverse the current policies of trade liberalization. policies must be implemented to promote fair and equitable systems of exchange, geared to the real development of each country's potential in a sustained way, without relations of domination and dependence, and to the urgent improvement of the living conditions of the peoples of the world and the strengthening of their rights and social achievements. the commission's present mandate is in contradiction with this requirement. the large social mobilizations throughout the world, and particularly in the european social forum, against the wto and its various proposals, in particular the services agreement which calls into question quality public services, demonstrate the need to review the commission's mandate. we cannot accept that the european union continues to align itself with the united states of america in key areas of the negotiations, namely agricultural issues, liberalisation of services and the so-called 'new singapore issues', investment, competition, public markets. it is also necessary to take account of areas important to the textile and clothing industries, especially in southern european countries such as portugal, in order to safeguard employment and the development of vast areas where these industries are vital. we therefore insist on the need to review the current mandate in order to avoid the disastrous social and environmental effects of the trade system that has been put in place in the wto. we want fair and equitable exchanges geared to development, to public health, to respect for the environment, to cultural diversity. we insist that the lack of agreement in seattle, cancun and recently in geneva be used to review the proposals that the commission has put forward and to take account of this necessary balance. and so i ask whether the european commission is prepared to review the current mandate, to negotiate in a new framework, respecting these principles that i have just mentioned?
in writing. - (pt) despite the obvious diversity of the plant varieties in question, which certainly justifies a specific community instrument, the fact is that plant varieties have not only been the subject of study and consumption for a long time, but that human creative activity has played a quite natural role in their development. in view of the multiplicity of industrial property rights in this area and the particular circumstances, i voted in favour, because i agree with the view of the council and the commission that the community plant variety right should be brought into line with the directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. the legal certainty and protection of the rights of inventors and developers and the relationship between them justify, as does the current importance of this area, the need to ensure consistency between the legal instruments on exploitation rights and on corresponding varietal licences covering patent-protected inventions. in particular, such harmonisation will make it possible to ensure that the holder of a biotechnological patent can exploit a variety containing his invention where the holder of the plant variety right refuses to grant a contractual licence and that invention constitutes a significant technical advance of considerable economic interest.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is simply a destructive fishing practice that undermines the sustainable conservation and management of fisheries resources. the tuna fishery is one of the fisheries most affected by illegal fishing activity, to which it should be added that the eu fishing fleets are among those that exploit these stocks the most. in this context, the eu has played a leading role in combating this type of iuu fishing, not least by combating the use of flags of convenience. however, these measures have clearly not been sufficient. in portugal, and particularly in the algarve, we are well aware of iuu fishing and i shall not repeat the accusations i have made in the past in the european parliament. i would like to support this report, which i believe will both help to conserve fisheries resources and bring some calm to community waters. i support the report because it calls for member states to seek to discourage their nationals from taking part in iuu activities. i thank mrs mckenna for this report, which, when implemented, will effectively solve problems that we are all familiar with, although some difficulties in combating them can be identified.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the relevant purpose here is to update a community regulation which brings together the control measures agreed between the various regional fisheries organisations (rfo), since the rfo have, since the adoption of the regulation, agreed on additional measures which need to be transposed into community law. in particular, iccat (the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas), the rfmo that has been at the forefront of efforts to curb illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, is now proposing a package of measures to counter these destructive fishing practices, with a focus on fishing by vessels flying flags of convenience. another aspect that needs to be corrected is the very poor quality of the data provided by the flag states, which, although it is one of the most basic obligations of these states, has made the assessment of the size of stocks uncertain. as the eu's fishing fleets are among the biggest users of these stocks, the eu must take responsibility and set a good example. i would like to express my appreciation, as does the rapporteur, for the efforts of iccat to deal with these problems within the remit of this commission, which is undoubtedly an attitude which is inspiring other rfos and other international developments in this field. i support this report and have voted for it.
in writing. - (pt) i support mr pirker's excellent report, which proposes a reorganization of the 1997 joint action so that the new synthetic substances can be tackled more resolutely and effectively. the problem of the growing production and trade of synthetic drugs requires strict and effective controls as soon as possible. this proposal is an update which at the same time means increased transparency and an extension of the scope of the joint action in terms of information exchange, risk assessment and control of the new synthetic substances which have been a very effective tool for rapid information exchange. the scope of application is extended to all new synthetic substances and new narcotic substances, including those which can be defined as medicinal products. it is also positive that, as the rapporteur proposes, the structures are simplified so that the exchange of information and the risk assessment can be carried out as simply and efficiently as possible. we hope that the joint action will not only serve as a rapid reaction mechanism but also serve the long-term monitoring of a synthetic drug in the future in the form of a continuous exchange of information between the member states and europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs (emcdda).
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report, which is primarily technical in nature, seeks to update, broaden the scope and strengthen the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new synthetic and narcotic substances on the basis of current procedures such as the early warning system and the system for assessing the social and health risks - carried out by a scientific committee - and the control procedure of the member states. it is intended that in future it will not only serve as a mechanism for rapid reaction but will serve the long-term monitoring of a synthetic substance by means of a procedure of constant information exchange. i support the rapporteur's wish to simplify the exchange of information, as does my group, and he proposes a number of amendments to make the whole procedure more efficient. we can therefore support the report on the whole.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the joint action on the exchange of information on, risk assessment of and control of new synthetic drugs, which was launched in june 1997 by europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs (emcdda), to include the following areas: the joint action, which consists of three elements - an early warning system, a risk assessment by a scientific committee and a community procedure for the control of substances notified in the member states - has proved its effectiveness and fully justified its existence and the simplification of procedures, as i, like the rapporteur, welcome the extension of the scope to new narcotic substances and the introduction of deadlines for each stage of the procedure. this proposal, which, with the amendments introduced by the rapporteur, has been supported by a large majority in the committee responsible, meets the wishes of those who have not given up the fight against drugs or have chosen the irresponsible path of the least resistance. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that this area is absolutely crucial for the future of the population of the member states, especially young people, and that this fully justifies closely coordinated action to ensure a rapid response and effective monitoring of the nature, origin, trade and consumption of new narcotic drugs and new synthetic substances.
in writing. - (pt) i welcome the eu's signing of the international convention against organised crime, i.e. the un convention against transnational organised crime and the accompanying protocols on the fight against trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants. this extremely important convention is the first legally binding un instrument in this field and the first global instrument to combat criminal networks, providing universal definitions of certain basic criminal concepts in the fight against organised crime. it is important to establish the widest possible cooperation on the basis of common procedures and minimum harmonisation of legal norms. only in this way can we combat crossborder crime more effectively and prevent criminal networks from taking advantage of the existing differences and lacunae in the legislation of the member states. this convention could make possible more effective cooperation between the signatory states by harmonizing the definitions of criminal offences in the various national legal systems, so that an act which is considered an offence in one of the participating states is also recognized as such in the other signatory states. four serious offences are made punishable: participation in organised crime, money laundering, obstruction of justice and corruption.
in the light of the extremely miserable living conditions of millions and millions of migrants and victims of human trafficking in the world and in europe, who are subjected to totally unacceptable exploitation and humiliation and who have no rights, i welcome the fact that the council has decided to conclude the un convention against transnational organized crime and the protocols relating thereto to combat trafficking in human beings and smuggling of persons. it is an instrument of international law which will promote better cooperation between countries in the fight against organised crime, in particular through the continuous harmonisation of the definitions of criminal offences (participation in organised crime, money laundering, obstruction of justice and corruption), legal aid, joint investigations and extradition. the protocols, in turn, aim to promote measures to combat trafficking in human beings and trafficking in persons, in particular women and children, in order to protect them from slavery, sexual exploitation and illegal employment, including effective measures to provide legal aid and material support to victims. these are measures which must be implemented quickly and effectively, but which must also be complemented by policies which tackle the deep-seated social causes of the current organised economic crime, from economic crime itself to the exploitation of men, women and children.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the un convention aims to enable effective cooperation between the participating countries in the fight against organised crime by harmonising the definitions of offences in the different national legal systems, so that an act considered an offence in one of the participating states is also recognised as such in the other signatory states. this will be the first global instrument to combat criminal networks, providing universal definitions of certain basic criminal law concepts in the fight against organised crime. it is also the first legally binding un instrument in this field. the two protocols, in turn, contain strict measures to combat trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, in order to protect them from slavery, sexual exploitation and illegal employment. in this connection, attention is drawn to provisions designed to provide victims of trafficking in human beings with both legal aid and material support. article 6 thus obliges the states parties not only to provide information on the legal and administrative procedures in force but also to take measures for the physical and mental rehabilitation of victims of trafficking in human beings. in view of the importance of the issues at stake and the pioneering status of this convention, i can only vote in favour.
in writing. - (pt) i support this initiative, stressing the importance of adopting criminal law for the protection of the environment. we have seen various environmental disasters, such as the recent sinking of the prestige off the coast of galicia. the necessary measures must be taken against pollution from ships to prevent the recurrence of such disasters. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal for a directive on the criminal protection of the environment should be adopted as soon as possible, so that provisions can be introduced to harmonize criminal and other penalties against serious pollution in breach of community rules. this framework decision aims to strengthen the criminal law framework through measures to approximate the laws and regulations of the member states on ship-source pollution, and it contains provisions on jurisdiction (to prevent conflicts of jurisdiction) and provisions to facilitate cooperation between member states (to establish contact points for the exchange of information). it is important to eliminate the current disparities in the level of penalties which may distort the possible - especially financial - consequences of a pollution accident depending on where it occurs, since such pollution may affect several member states of the union.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have followed this debate with great interest, partly because of the disaster of the oil tanker prestige and partly because of the proposal adopted by the european parliament on the initiative of the undersigned to establish a community programme whose sole purpose is to develop instruments for the protection of the external borders of the european union, particularly at sea. all measures to improve safety at sea should be supported as they meet a well-defined collective need. it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field. such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us. i therefore voted in favour of the reports on safety at sea, with the exception of the pex report, because i do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal to set up a european coastguard. the eu has a duty to promote safety at sea and should not under any circumstances shirk this responsibility. however, the creation of a european coastguard is going too far and a better solution would be to make cooperation between member states stronger and closer, in order to ensure better interoperability and compatibility between the available means at intra-european level and to avoid unnecessary duplication and overlap.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report is part of the package of proposals on safety at sea following the disaster of the oil tanker prestige. it can be said that oil pollution of the seas is not only caused by accidents but also by illegal discharge. the directive therefore aims to transpose existing international rules, such as the marpol convention, into community law and to establish guidelines for the penalties to be imposed for infringements of the discharge provisions. however, we should remember that combating illegal discharges not only requires more legislation but above all effective implementation and monitoring, which requires appropriate resources. i reject the proposal to create a european coastguard (amendment no 6) not only because of the sovereignty problems it raises, but because it is not the best solution to ensure that the rules are respected and that they are monitored, and because it does not answer the crucial question of resources, where the present proposal shows political aims that go beyond merely fighting pollution. the need for effective cooperation and exchange of information between the various coastguards and for the necessary financing of adequate means of monitoring and combating marine pollution by each member state is one to which the community budget can make an important contribution.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have followed this debate with great interest, partly because of the disaster of the oil tanker prestige and partly because of the proposal adopted by the european parliament on the initiative of the undersigned to establish a community programme whose sole purpose is to develop instruments for the protection of the external borders of the european union, particularly at sea. all measures to improve safety at sea should be supported as they meet a well-defined collective need. it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field. such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us. i therefore voted in favour of the reports on safety at sea, with the exception of the pex report, because i do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal to set up a european coastguard. the eu has a duty to promote safety at sea and should not under any circumstances shirk this responsibility. however, the creation of a european coastguard is going too far and a better solution would be to make cooperation between member states stronger and closer, in order to ensure better interoperability and compatibility between the available means at intra-european level and to avoid unnecessary duplication and overlap.
in writing. - (pt) having such a clear memory of the ecological disaster caused by the sinking of the oil tanker prestige in november 2002, i believe that the illegal dumping of oil and other harmful substances is a very serious act that puts people and the environment at risk and should therefore be subject to criminal liability. the principle of 'the polluter pays' should therefore apply in this field, as is shown by the adoption in december of a proposal for a directive laying down stricter community rules on environmental liability. however, i think that from a strictly legal point of view the situation is rather complex, since the directive is proposed with reference to article 80, which concerns transport, but also defines criminal offences. it is therefore appropriate to consider the appropriateness of the procedure. i also have some reservations about the creation of a european coastguard, because i believe that this area is within the exclusive competence of the member states, which does not prevent close intergovernmental cooperation and the community taking responsibility for providing modern and efficient facilities and equipment. i therefore unconditionally support the objectives pursued, but i have had to abstain because i believe that further consideration should be given to this matter so that an appropriate solution can also be found to this important problem.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have followed this debate with great interest, partly because of the disaster of the oil tanker prestige and partly because of the proposal adopted by the european parliament on the initiative of the undersigned to establish a community programme whose sole purpose is to develop instruments for the protection of the external borders of the european union, particularly at sea. all measures to improve safety at sea should be supported as they meet a well-defined collective need. it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field. such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us. i therefore voted in favour of the reports on safety at sea, with the exception of the pex report, because i do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal to set up a european coastguard. the eu has a duty to promote safety at sea and should not under any circumstances shirk this responsibility. however, the creation of a european coastguard is going too far and a better solution would be to make cooperation between member states stronger and closer, in order to ensure better interoperability and compatibility between the available means at intra-european level and to avoid unnecessary duplication and overlap.
in writing. - (pt) i support this report on the transfer of cargo and passenger ships between community registers, which has managed to strike a good balance between the various considerations to be taken into account in this area. the desire to reduce the administrative burden of transfers between member states, which was brought about by the 1991 regulation, has not led the rapporteur or the commission to forget in their proposals the indispensable need for increased safety, which was so tragically confirmed by the disaster of the oil tanker prestige in 2002. i believe that the flags of the member states can be made attractive - because it is also important that the eu has a substantial navy - without the need to deteriorate security. the rapporteur, in not following the trend towards centralisation of everything, has chosen not to propose the creation of a european register of ships. the only way to reduce costs would be to replace national registers entirely by the european register of ships, which according to experts does not seem feasible. cooperation between national maritime authorities, and in particular the setting of a number of obligations between them, is more appropriate and will certainly help to establish a routine of cooperation, which can also be strengthened by the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the application of the new provisions.
in writing. - (pt) the it is widely accepted that the need to find acceptable solutions to the management of radioactive waste is one of the most important, if not the most important, problem for the exploitation of nuclear energy. the commission considers that the member states and the candidate countries are not currently tackling the problem of waste in a satisfactory manner and that member states should set up appropriate strategies and prepare detailed programmes for the long-term management of all types of waste on their territory. the aim of the directive is to promote this work by highlighting the importance of the various aspects of the problem, namely the identification and preparation of landfills, the implementation of the necessary research and development with a view to the best technical waste disposal solutions and technology that can reduce the quantity and the hazard of waste generated by the production of nuclear energy. member states should be encouraged to cooperate in waste management, taking into account the principle that each state should treat its own waste except in very specific situations and that everything should be done in such a way as not to harm public health and the environment. i support the directive, which seems well founded. as regards the report, there are proposals which do not seem to be substantial and some which have not deserved... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety. safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal. all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications. if it is serious that these materials are not permanently deposited, it is even more serious that there are no immediate plans for deposition in the member states. the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area. with such a commitment, these proposals go further than the existing international conventions. that is why i voted in favour of these reports.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste, most of which is not permanently landfilled. no member state currently has permanent landfilling facilities and there are no immediate plans to do so. it is therefore urgent to provide good solutions. instead of a solution based on a common timetable, the rapporteur has rightly proposed a two-step approach which will be more effective and more feasible. each member state shall propose to the commission by 31 december 2006 a time limit for preparing and submitting to the commission the long-term management of all types of radioactive waste on its territory, in accordance with international standards. once the programmes have been submitted, each member state must set its own deadlines for the implementation of the programme, the choice of the site and the construction and operation of the landfill. this approach will make it possible to achieve the objective set with the flexibility necessary to take account of the diversity of the situation in the union. this solution, which respects the principle of subsidiarity, is an important step in responding to the demands of european citizens for regulation in this sensitive area, by creating a responsible framework by means of deadlines, steps and objectives. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the it is a question of establishing a legally binding legal framework for the safety of nuclear installations, since nuclear safety measures still vary widely between member states. the aim is to ensure that a high level of nuclear safety is maintained in the eu and the system to be introduced will be the responsibility of the national safety authorities. the community system is intended to complement national systems. community control will be concerned with the way in which the national safety authorities carry out their tasks. it is not responsible for inspecting the safety of individual nuclear installations. the commission's proposal seems well founded. objections may be raised by certain member states who may feel that the commission is interfering too much in matters which fall within national sovereignty as regards the power to decide on the conditions for the construction and operation of nuclear installations. the provisions concerning cooperation with the national safety authorities and the way in which community surveillance is to take place have therefore been very carefully formulated, which we welcome. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety. safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal. all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications. if it is serious that these materials are not permanently deposited, it is even more serious that there are no immediate plans for deposition in the member states. the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area. with such a commitment, these proposals go further than the existing international conventions. that is why i voted in favour of these reports.
in writing. - (pt) the i voted in favour of this important report for the same reasons as i have explained in my explanation of vote for other reports on this 'nuclear package'. there are wide differences between member states in this sensitive area and public acceptance of nuclear risks varies considerably from one member state to another. fortunately, the importance of promoting and sharing 'best practice' seems to have gained a decisive foothold in many aspects of life in europe. the commission's aim in this proposal is to guarantee the implementation of best practice in nuclear safety in all member states and in all civil nuclear installations. i do not think that this proposal is intended to replace the convention on nuclear safety - which was concluded under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency (iaea) - and to which all the member states of the european union are parties, but rather that it is intended to maintain the principle of a high minimum level of safety under the responsibility of the member states, on the basis of enhanced cooperation and solidarity, which is precisely what is expressed in concrete terms in the 'best practices'. i would have voted against if the proposal in question had meant that a power which has traditionally been exclusively national should be transferred to shared competence. it has been part of the rapporteur's deliberations and has always served as a "seam" that has clearly guided the legislator in the moderating direction.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it, and it is therefore proposing to amend the decision on the basis of the information available to the commission. there seems to be no need for technical nuclear considerations in this amendment. the second question is whether the principle of these loans is acceptable. however, this is a question which would arise independently of the amendment now proposed. it should be noted that the loan scheme was introduced in 1977, at that time only covering the member states, and was amended in 1994 when the question arose whether the eu should contribute to promoting better safety conditions for nuclear installations in third countries, in particular soviet-origin reactors in the former eastern bloc countries.
in writing. - (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety. safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal. all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications. if it is serious that these materials are not permanently deposited, it is even more serious that there are no immediate plans for deposition in the member states. the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area. with such a commitment, these proposals go further than the existing international conventions. that is why i voted in favour of these reports.
in writing. - (pt) the i agree with this motion for a resolution. i also believe that the increased appropriations should be used primarily to improve the safety of existing reactors, without, however, - contrary to the rapporteur's view - precluding the financing of projects to secure or improve existing equipment. this is the case with the euratom loan now being granted for the completion of a reactor developed and built by canadian, french, italian and american companies in romania - cernavoda 2. i therefore oppose the idea of closing down plants. i am concerned, as are most european citizens, about the safety of the plants - especially after the socio-political changes in eastern europe after november 1989 - and about the ongoing decommissioning programmes. my support for this proposal for a decision is based on these concerns but also on the consideration that increased economic and social cohesion within the eu should also consist in a more active contribution to the economic recovery of many of the countries where these plants are located, for which a secure and adequate energy supply will of course be of great importance.
in writing. - (pt) we must certainly take account of the particular problems facing agriculture in the arctic and sub-arctic regions of finland, sweden, scotland, austria and estonia. their cold climate means a shorter growing season and higher costs for both agriculture and livestock, as well as low and less varied grain yields. the difficulties in transporting and marketing the products, which are partly due to the climatic conditions, must be added to these. i therefore support the objective already set out at several european councils, namely that we should ensure the sustainability and distribution of agriculture throughout the european territory and preserve not only the landscape as a more or less picturesque element, but above all the viability of the agricultural community as a whole. as a strong supporter of real convergence and the fight against regional asymmetries, especially in the outermost regions, i agree with the recognition of the special status of the northern regions, because i also believe that it is the task of the union to promote rural balance on the basis of proportionality and fairness criteria, taking into account national identities and the side effects of agriculture. my constant reference to the specific features and problems of portuguese agriculture implies a corresponding understanding of the specific features of other member states. (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as i have said on several previous occasions, the clearer the formulation and implementation of community legislation (including the rules governing the activities of the institutions), the better the protection of operators in the areas concerned and, therefore, of course, of citizens. clear and simple rules are the most effective contribution we can make to the europe so often proclaimed to be "close to the people", but which is still rather distant from them. it will also ensure the fairness and proportionality of community action and, of course, respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i thank the rapporteur for her work, which includes the emphasis on the review of the legality of the acts emanating from the agencies, the so-called management bodies, which are responsible for administering certain tasks in connection with community programmes. i particularly support the demand that they respect the principle of transparency and the rules on access to documents. finally, i also support the possibility of prior consultation in the relevant committees and that parliament can then give its opinion on the proposed candidate for the post of head of a given agency. this ex ante political control by parliament would be a natural complement to parliament's ex post political control in the form of discharge for the implementation of the budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the critical situation in which tuna fishing is found, the european parliament has decided to proceed with an own-initiative report in defence of both the community fleet and the tuna canning industry. tuna, in all its species, has become a fishery resource with a high commercial and socioeconomic impact, to the point of recently recording strong growth rates. in numbers, tuna represents more than 60% of the eu's canned fish production, generating some 40 000 direct jobs. led by spain, italy, france and portugal, the european tuna fleet is the most significant in the world, accounting for more than 20% of total catches. this is an industrial activity with historical traditions. with this report, the european parliament has no ambition other than to demand a precise and exhaustive assessment of the current situation and to outline the future prospects for this fisheries sector. the report therefore begins by focusing on two key problems in the tuna fisheries sector: the loss of competitiveness of the community fleet and industry in relation to imports from third countries and the preservation and sustainable management of resources. first of all, let us agree that these features are common and widespread in almost all types of fisheries, and not just in tuna. in order to ensure that the european union clearly shows its support for its industry, this report calls for the development of a specific action plan and a framework for structural support for the tuna sector. the european union should use this instrument to require that products from third countries meet the same health standards of quality and food safety as community products. the european union also calls for the intensification of inspections of products in order to ensure full compliance with the conservation standards. in relation to the conservation and management of fisheries resources, tuna has the characteristic of being a migratory species particularly vulnerable to illegal fishing in international waters. in this case, therefore, the european union must, more than ever, prevent the transfer of community vessels to countries flying the flag of convenience. similarly, the capacities of the fishing fleet should be better adapted to the available resources. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, on his brilliant work, which will certainly help to shape the future prospects of this sector.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as i had the opportunity to say during the debate on the first reading, i believe that the regulation under consideration represents progress, particularly for producers, consumers and also in terms of environmental protection. in fact, we are on the way to a very positive modernisation of the legislative framework for the control of the biodegradability of detergents which dates back to the early 1970s. let me, however, express my dissatisfaction with two points which i consider particularly important and sensitive. the first concerns the need to harmonise additional labelling rules, in particular as regards the prohibition of images which may increase the risk of ingestion of detergents, such as images of fruit or other foodstuffs. these are particularly dangerous for children as they increase the risk of ingestion of detergents by the attractive element they contain. the system currently in force restricts this prohibition to dangerous substances and preparations, which is clearly insufficient. i therefore call for greater protection of consumers, especially the most vulnerable. i would also like to express my disapproval of the imposition in the regulation of non-harmonised national test methods without any provision for their publication as an integral part of the regulation. i think in any of these respects we fall far short of the best solutions.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many challenges facing the irish presidency. the first is the negotiation of the financial perspective for the period after 2006 and the proposals for the future of cohesion policy. the context in which they are being presented does not bode well for the necessary economic and social cohesion in the european union. the unacceptable blackmail of the signatories of the so-called 'charter of the six' to limit the community budget to 1% of the community's gross national product, following the failure to reach agreement at the brussels summit on the draft of the new constitutional treaty. (closed) secondly, because the internal debate in the commission is between maintaining the current limit of the financial perspective - 1.24% of gnp - and reducing it to 1.15%, despite the enlargement to include countries with incomes on average below 50% of the community average, the growth of social inequalities and national and regional disparities in the european union. the new financial perspectives risk calling into question what should be fundamental priorities, namely employment with rights, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, cooperation and development with the least developed countries. the central question must therefore be to raise the limits of the financial perspective. the second point is the need to revise the stability pact, an instrument which has already proved to be inadequate in the face of economic and social realities. we know that it is an instrument with stupid criteria, which penalizes economic growth, employment and public investment and which needed to be abolished. it's not your flexibility that solves the problem. the debate on the evaluation of current economic and monetary policies, in particular the implementation of the single currency and the overvaluation of the euro, is yet to be held, although the current economic situation clearly demonstrates the structural weaknesses of the policy pursued and the need for its thorough revision. the so-called lisbon strategy must also be amended to promote quality public services and achieve effective social inclusion. finally, as regards the igc for the revision of the treaties, i suggest that they ignore the existing draft.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. portugal accounts for 6% of the eu's canned tuna production, which represents approximately 40% of portugal's canned fish production. this reflects the importance of the tuna fleet and the enterprises located in less developed peripheral regions, which are highly dependent on the fisheries sector. the sector has lost competitiveness in the face of pressure from foreign imports as a result of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements, and it has also been affected by the last reform of the common fisheries policy in december 2002. i therefore support the basic idea behind this report, which is that the commission should undertake a study of tuna stocks, the fleet and the sector as a whole and then present an action plan for the tuna sector, setting out a comprehensive framework for structural aid and a plan to protect the sector against competition from third countries. we have always stressed the need for compensation or consumption aid to support the canning sector and to control imports so that we can ensure that imported fish meets the same food safety and quality criteria as community products.
in the case of the mediterranean, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources. the report says that the member states will only be able to benefit from this if the eu decides to do more for this fisheries sector. such a conclusion is impossible, given that the eu tuna fleet and the sector as a whole have lost competitiveness and at the same time make one of the most significant contributions to the eu - the canning industry accounts for some 40 000 jobs in the eu and tuna accounts for almost 60% of the total production of canned fish. i support the proposal that the commission should draw up a specific action plan and an overall framework of structural support for the tuna sector. i recognize that it is important for the eu to ensure that the fleets of regional fisheries organisations are adapted to the available resources, so as to create stability and renewal. this adjustment should include combating overfishing by illegal vessels flying flags of convenience and, as the report suggests, drawing up a list of vessels which comply with the relevant rules and are eligible for fishing authorization, as well as possible sanctions against vessels which do not comply with the rules.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this regulation aims to update the current eu legislative framework on detergents, which dates back to the early 1970s and is spread across many different legislative instruments. despite certain limitations and the fact that it is not sufficiently far-reaching, the regulation does contain some excellent proposals aimed at protecting the environment through controls on biodegradability and protecting consumers by ensuring that they are informed about the composition of products, content lists and effective labelling. we therefore support the compromise amendments tabled to the report with the support of seven parliamentary groups. we regret, however, that the regulation does not require explicit warnings about the risks, especially for children, of the ingestion of detergents and cleaners and prohibitions on the use of images which may be misleading, such as images of fruit. we must not forget that behind the harmonization of legislation there is always a political desire for greater market integration and the removal of obstacles to the free movement of goods. this means that we have serious reservations about the regulation, because it risks undermining the right of member states to introduce effective legislation on crucial issues such as the protection of human health, the environment and consumer rights by introducing restrictions on products which do not comply with these provisions.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) although the word 'bushmeat' can be misinterpreted and although hunting is not the only cause of the decline in wildlife populations - in europe it is often a factor affecting the protection and stabilisation of numbers - i voted in favour. the term 'bushmeat' or wild meat describes a food product derived from wild animals and refers to the trade in it, which has had a catastrophic impact on the population of great apes. the consequences of the illegal trade in bushmeat have attracted worldwide attention. unep and unesco set up a project to help the apes survive, and many other organizations are working to solve the problem. the eu has so far only dealt superficially with the issue, as the rapporteur emphasizes. on 12 july 2000, the committee on petitions received a petition for the protection of species threatened by illegal hunting and trafficking as part of a campaign against bushmeat. in voting in favour i am simply expressing my agreement that developing countries need more support to ensure that local traditions are respected, that food shortages are taken into account, but that stricter measures are also introduced ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) the we voted against the herzog report in the final vote. we did not think it met the necessary requirements because it was watered down by the proposals put forward by the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. various improvements were made in the plenary, but the amendments tabled did not sufficiently alter the result. the final result reflects the aggressiveness of the neoliberal and conservative offensive currently sweeping the eu in the wake of the hasty privatisations prescribed in the lisbon strategy, as well as the attempts to enshrine these in the treaty last december. the report is fundamentally biased against the public sector and against the role of the state in the economy, since it is based on the erroneous assumption that ownership determines the extent to which good management can be ensured. the obvious objective is to offer the most profitable sectors and public services to the major global economic and financial groups. the report supports and encourages the process of liberalisation or privatisation in various key sectors and foresees in a dismissible way the economic and social consequences for the quality and access to public services as well as the loss of jobs in the sectors concerned. we all know that the term 'supply obligations' was not chosen at random. it is clearly intended to put an end to the concept of a public service and thus to lighten the burden of state responsibility.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the introduction and maintenance of universal service obligations is one of the cornerstones of the european development model, since they ensure, within the framework of a market economy - or rather a social market economy - the full protection of certain fundamental rights. the individual citizen has rights and is not just a unit of production or a piece of the free market. i agree with the rapporteur that we should pay particular attention to rural areas and socially disadvantaged areas, especially the outermost regions. i also agree that social services in the field of social security and social inclusion should continue to be exempted from the competition rules. i support the idea that, under the treaties and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the eu should remain neutral in relation to the choice of ownership by the member states. the proposed clarification of the concept of universal service and of the criteria for distinguishing between the different categories of universal service should not lead to greater centralisation or to artificial standardisation. it is of the utmost importance that the public authorities responsible retain their freedom of choice. in view of the vote in plenary on the subject in question and in view of the fact that the proposals for a framework directive were not adopted, i decided to vote in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine. these diseases are particularly prevalent in developing countries, especially the least developed countries, which are plagued by war, poverty, economic difficulties and the collapse of key public services, especially the health system. the grim facts are that millions of people in developing countries still die each year from infectious diseases, most of which can be cured by medicine. it is the result of the profit-oriented, commercialized approach to health adopted by the large multinational pharmaceutical companies, which are mainly based in the industrialized countries. patents on medicines and lack of investment in the production of local medicines thus represent considerable obstacles to be overcome. any small advance within the framework of the who continues to run counter to fantastic financial interests. the european programme under discussion is aimed at combating these diseases and should be welcomed. it just doesn't go far enough. the international community's efforts should focus in particular on strengthening the human and institutional resources and infrastructures of developing countries, in particular with a view to restoring public services and basic health care and ensuring the independent production of medicines.
- the commission's action programme entitled 'rapid response to hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction'. outstanding issues and future challenges' was based on three fundamental objectives: to improve efficiency, to make medicines cheaper and to increase research and development. i support the rapporteur's proposal to encourage patent holders to grant licences allowing other companies to manufacture their products at a lower price, by applying the safeguard clauses of international trade agreements which can help the authorities to improve access to medicines and protect public health. we need more research and development and new drugs and diagnostic tools that are easier to use, more effective and cheaper. at the same time, particular emphasis should be placed on the dissemination of routine health care to children and mothers in order to reduce mortality. the eu should respond to these developments and increase its financial support accordingly. i voted in favour because i believe that the problems arising from poverty-related diseases are so serious that it will only be possible to solve all aspects of them through far-reaching measures and strategies.
in writing. - (pt) the this report on the new partnership for africa's development (nepad) is a major political initiative launched by five african heads of state as part of an ambitious project called the african renaissance, which is aimed in particular at conflict prevention and the implementation of support mechanisms for the restoration and maintenance of peace, as well as the fight against corruption as a prerequisite for good governance. the initiative is also supported by the african peer review mechanism (aprm), which i also support. i also agree that it is important to promote the involvement of civil society, including human rights organisations. the importance of women in african society should also be ensured by a more prominent role in development projects. although nepad is sometimes criticised for working from the top down, i believe that we should give the initiative our wholehearted support and should help to improve the real human and social impact. we should help to rescue hundreds of people from underdevelopment and play an active role in the fight against the corruption and tyranny that are enduring scourges in large parts of africa. that is why i voted for it. i am very pleased with this report because i have fought for a new vision of africa, a new vision of a forgotten continent and a hope of brotherhood and solidarity with a continent with which we are brothers.
in writing. - (pt) the i am very much in favour of this report by the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport on the preservation of cultural diversity, especially in the context of a new round of wto negotiations. consequently, at its conference on 17 october 2003, unesco took the initiative to initiate the preparation of a draft convention on cultural diversity with the aim of creating an international legal instrument to protect and promote cultural diversity. this report makes a positive contribution in this regard by making a number of recommendations to the member states and the commission concerning the work of unesco, including the consolidation of cultural rights, the promotion of the development of public cultural policies in the individual member states and the commitment of all parties involved to international cooperation. another welcome point in the report is the reaffirmation of the principle of preserving and promoting cultural diversity and access to culture as a contribution to greater mutual understanding between peoples and the promotion of peace. i agree with the report's assertion that individual states have the right to define their own cultural policy. i also welcome the confirmation of the principle, defended by unesco among others, that culture is not a commodity and should not be subject to liberalization either multilaterally or bilaterally, as well as the confirmation of the role of public services. i therefore voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as the rapporteur (and the consultative rapporteur) so aptly put it, 'the preservation of cultural heritage as the common heritage of mankind is a matter for our civil society, just as the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity is a guarantee of peace, security, stability and development'. this preservation requires specific measures. this was the background for the drafting of the unesco world declaration on cultural diversity and the council of europe declaration on cultural diversity. these declarations go beyond purely commercial aspects such as the development of a viable local cultural production and the improvement of the worldwide distribution of cultural works. respect for and protection of cultural diversity is essential for collective consciousness and, hopefully, sustainable development. cultural diversity, on the other hand, is in harmony with the world around us and something that each generation inherits and passes on. i believe that the eu should be actively involved in the discussions and the development of new instruments at the next ordinary unesco conference, so that we can meet the needs of a new world in which europe should, with unwavering determination, promote cultural diversity, contribute to cultural dialogue and improve mutual understanding and respect.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the 2002 annual report on equal opportunities for men and women is relevant to the eu's objectives. however, we have noted a number of shortcomings in the report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i believe that a two-pronged approach should be adopted, distinguishing between the safeguarding of equal opportunities and equal pay and real gender issues. as increasing employment, especially for women, is directly linked to the ability to reconcile work and family life, the employment strategy must include references to funding, childcare and eldercare facilities and access to paid parental leave. it should also include targeted assistance for women returning to the labour market after several years at home. we should strive to involve areas as diverse as social security, vocational training, entrepreneurship, women's participation in decision-making, the extension of working life, domestic violence and trafficking in women.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected in the member states. it shows that the objectives of the strategy have not yet been defined on the basis of measurable criteria and that the annual reports do not combine a description of the policy objectives, to which i referred earlier, with a thorough analysis and evaluation of the current situation. although the report contains some contradictions, i agree with the statement that there is insufficient coherence between the un policy - as defined in the beijing platform for action - and the eu's policy on equal opportunities. i also welcome the fact that the report clearly states that there is insufficient information on the implementation of a number of community programmes and that, like other statements, it clearly expresses disappointment with the 2003 work programme as regards priority actions. i also agree with the rapporteur when she stresses the need for a report on the 1995 platform in the member states, which should be submitted before the end of this legislative period. unfortunately, the good intentions have not been carried out. in the neoliberal attack on workers' rights, social rights and other social gains, the first victims are always women, as a result of unemployment and lower wages.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i believe that equality between men and women is of the utmost importance and i have always condemned discrimination based on sex. i must admit, however, that i disagree with the rapporteur, who is not fighting for equality but is seeking to impose equality extremism. genuine equality does not require exactly the same number of men and women in the same job, it is much more important to ensure equal opportunities first. the fanaticism for equality expressed in this report is an absurd intervention which gives an immediate impression of equality and of whether something can only be a true representative distribution by pure chance. i believe that many of the rapporteur's ideas will not be able to be implemented at eu level because, under eu law, they fall within the competence of the member states. nevertheless, i agree with some of the points made in this own-initiative report, which in any case do not concern only equality between men and women. i agree, for example, with the rapporteur's criticism that the lack of transparency in council decisions prevents parliament and the public from giving a proper assessment of the council's activities and decisions. i voted against it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusions of the tampere european council in october 1999, the commission has drawn up a number of proposals to control migration flows and combat illegal immigration. but the truth is that the image of a strong europe that the european union has created with its profoundly restrictive measures on immigration clashes with the real economic needs of immigrant labor. this commission proposal therefore presents immigration as a response to the ageing of the european population and the decline in its working population. i regret that the commission gives priority to the economic and demographic aspects rather than to the social and human aspects that lead to emigration and also to the improvement of the living and working conditions of immigrants in the european union in its various countries. the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings cannot result in a repressive policy directed against irregular immigrants. it must be against the traffickers and employers who take advantage of this situation. we therefore put forward a number of proposals which we consider important to improve the moraes report, and we hope that they will be adopted. among these i would highlight the opposition to the content of the council directive on family reunification, which is opposed to the fundamental right to live together as a family including an inadmissible proposal to subject migrant children of at least two years of age to a test before deciding whether they can be reunited with their parents; i would also stress our call on the member states to ratify the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, adopted by the united nations general assembly in its resolution no 45158 of 18 december 1990. but, in addition to calling on the member states to ratify this convention, it is essential to take account of the fact that in the overwhelming majority of cases it is necessary to regularize automatically immigrant workers who, although not holding a residence permit, pay taxes and social security contributions in the host country. we also hope that it will be taken into account that the overwhelming majority of immigrants are third country nationals who migrate to the countries of the european union to escape extreme poverty in their countries of origin and that they should therefore be treated as victims and not as potential criminals. finally, i regret that the european people's party wants to call into question in the moraes report approved political rights, in particular the right of immigrant workers to vote in local elections to the european parliament. immigrants must not be regarded as disposable workers who are thrown away after being used. immigrants, and women in particular, must be considered worthy of receiving conditions of welcome which respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and equal economic, social and cultural rights.
mr president, commissioner antónio vitorino, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are now discussing, 'immigration, integration and employment', clearly reflects the contours of a multifaceted and uncontested problem of current concern in the european union and in each of the member states. the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere european council laid the foundations for immigration policy in the union. today, more than ever, there is an urgent need to attach greater importance to this issue for reasons that are mainly related to a significant increase in the flow of immigrants to europe in recent years, the need to maintain the levels of economic development of europe due to the growing demographic deficit and the shrinking of the labour force and the enlargement and changes in the dynamics of migration resulting from it. to illustrate, according to the united nations, italy will need 6,500 immigrants per year for every million inhabitants. my country, portugal, currently hosts 400 000 legal immigrants, representing 8% of the working population, and in the next 50 years it may have a 17% decrease in its current population. immigrants are thus a resource for the labour market. but not only that. their rights are inseparable from the fundamental rights of the human person. each member state, in coordination with the union, must therefore define migration flows in accordance with the needs of its labour market, along with a response based on solidarity, humanism and integration in welcoming those who come to us in search of better living conditions. the member states therefore face a common challenge: to improve the management of migration flows by improving integration policies for new immigrants and those already settled, always in collaboration with the countries of origin. finally, as regards the rights of citizenship which must always be present in this matter, we believe that it would be premature and perhaps excessive to grant the right to vote in european elections. as regards local elections, each member state should retain the prerogative to grant or not grant the right to vote to immigrants it receives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner antónio vitorino - whom i congratulate on his birthday - we are witnessing an increase in illegal migration movements, usually managed by criminal networks which mislead potential migrants who end up being forced to work in conditions which are totally contrary to what they were promised, including sometimes physical and/or psychological abuse and violations of their human rights. this initiative is therefore very positive and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, because it addresses three fundamental and interrelated issues in a balanced way. firstly, the management of migration flows. there should be a common immigration policy with common conditions and rules for the entry and residence of migrant workers which should always take account of the real needs of the labour market and of the economy itself in each of the member states. it should be up to each member state to assess and decide whether or not it needs to increase its labour force, by how much, in which sector, taking into account its actual needs as well as its capacity to welcome and integrate such immigrants. there should be a fight against illegal migration flows by offering economic migrants the possibility to use clearly defined and transparent legal channels to compensate for any labour shortages in each member state. the proposal for a directive on the admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment should help to make it clear to potential immigrants how to obtain legal access to the territory of the union, and the fight against illegal work should be strengthened and those who benefit from it should be penalized. secondly, the improvement of the integration of immigrants into the european union. there should be a common approach to ensuring the integration of third-country nationals into our societies, with rights and obligations in the field of residence, access to education and employment, and promoting their non-discrimination at economic, social and cultural levels. and thirdly, and lastly, the need for cooperation with countries of origin in order to strengthen their capacity to manage migration, including the negotiation of readmission agreements and return assistance programmes.
mr president, i would like to thank the irish presidency for the very clear way in which it has tried to answer the question i have raised. however, forgive me if i insist on a problem that is crucial to me: i would like to know whether the conclusions of the working group appointed by the commission itself, which pointed to costs of more than eur 3.4 billion per year for the maintenance of this natura network, whether these conclusions, i repeat, will indeed be taken into due consideration by the council and whether it thinks that we will have financial prospects that are commensurate with the commitments made by the european institutions? this is the very specific question i would like to see clarified by the council.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been confronted with the growing problem of illegal immigration. it is essential that an integrated and comprehensive approach be developed to prevent and eradicate it and to tackle the underlying causes. the call for a common policy on asylum and immigration was made in tampere, the need for an effective fight against illegal immigration was reaffirmed in laeken and seville, and a first assessment of progress in this area was made in the context of the thessaloniki decisions, which gave rise to the present initiative. i would like to congratulate mr hubert pirker on the excellent report he has presented to us. i agree with him when he argues for a general and coherent approach. and i would like to emphasize eight points: - first, the existence of legal immigration routes allowing third-country nationals to enter the territory of the union, taking into account the reception capacity of each member state and assuming enhanced cooperation with the countries of origin; - second, the integration of legal immigrants residing and working in the european union with a common social integration policy which balances the corresponding rights and obligations of those citizens and the host societies; - third, a joint management of migration flows, in particular the visa policy, with agreement being essential to reach as soon as possible on the necessary legal, technical and financial means for the vis, the visa information system; - fourth, improved controls at external borders, with the creation of a european border guard body, with a view to providing an alternative to the european system of sex offenders; - fifth, the integration of legal immigrants residing and working in the european union with a common social integration policy which balances the corresponding rights and obligations of those citizens and the host societies; - third, a joint management of migration flows, in particular the visa policy, with agreement being essential to reach as soon as possible the necessary legal, technical and financial means for the vis, the visa information system; - fourth, the establishment of better controls at external borders, with the creation of a european border guard body, with a view to the countries of origin, and with a stronger cooperation with the creation of a common european body of lawful immigration controls, with a view to the protection of third, and a common immigration, and the rights of legal immigrants, and working in the union, and the european system of legal status of legal immigrants, and working in the union, and with a common social situation, and the rights and the rights of legal migration flows, and the rights of those residing and the rights and
mr president, a community policy on the movement of non-nationals from the member states of the union must be innovative and responsible. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union's policies are in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which is to promote the integration of the citizens of the union into the european union. the promotion of common asylum and return policies, the introduction of more secure documents and information campaigns in countries of transit and origin of illegal immigration are areas where innovation is taking shape. what, then, is responsible politics? it is not just about consolidating the union's external borders and making them a fortress, but also about opening them up without rules, leaving the expectations of those who demand our countries to their fate. reality has shown us that neither of these methods is capable. we therefore want entry rules so that we can be generous in our integration. this is where our social concerns come in. we do not want these people to live without being integrated, without participating, benefiting and obliging themselves to the community to which they are becoming a part of. it is this dialogue between rights and obligations that defines the existence of the human being in society that we want to preserve. realistically, we consider that the reception is mutually beneficial for the person and for the host member state. this common policy will, however, be less effective if it is promoted by only one of the parties. we therefore welcome the cooperation agreements that have been concluded with the countries of origin and transit. we cannot agree to the proposed creation of a european border guard corps, which merits further discussion. but we also agree with the option of including in these agreements measures of an economic or commercial nature which would only come into force if the agreements were respected. it is about respecting the commitments made. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent contribution to the defence of a community policy on the movement of persons which is responsible, demanding and generous, with the participation of the various parties concerned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mrs rodi krata-tasagaropoulou, on the preparation of this report which demonstrates the importance and the need for concrete policies at community level for the services sector. this sector is in fact a driver of job creation and as such must be given due attention. so if we want to achieve the objectives set out in lisbon we have to act and act quickly. the situation in the various member states with regard to the service sector is very different: portugal, for example, has high potential for job creation in this area, including knowledge-intensive services to be provided to businesses and other institutions, family support services, tourism services and associated activities. given the decisive role of the services sector in improving the competitiveness of the portuguese economy and in creating more and better jobs, special attention has been given to this area in the portuguese national employment plan for 2003-06. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european market for services is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. the member states have a major role to play in this area and it is up to them to develop, in collaboration with the social partners, an effective and clear framework for the services sector. it is also the responsibility of the member states to ensure that appropriate policies are implemented and to invest in the training and qualification of human resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of employment and social policy. finally, i would like to stress the need for the commission and the member states to promote an open method of coordination of national policies on employment in the service sector with a view to exchanging information and best practice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main conclusion of mrs piia-noora kauppi's report is unequivocally the recognition that the rules applicable to mutual assistance in tax matters must be subordinated to the legal basis laid down in article 95 of the treaty. the institutional balance enshrined in that treaty is thus respected, and in particular the prerogatives of parliament. administrative cooperation does not infringe tax legislation in substance, which removes the obligation to subordinate it to the legal basis of articles 93 and 94, but it is essential to combat tax evasion and is therefore indispensable for the consolidation of the internal market, which makes it fall within the scope of article 95. i therefore support the commission's choice. as regards the purvis report, which deals with the establishment of community rules for private investment in a wide range of financial products, it seems really essential that the current legislative vacuum be filled. the lack of clear rules on such financial applications has led to their domiciliation offshore, with clear damage to the european union as a whole and unambiguous risks for the most vulnerable investors. in addition, several member states are preparing to draw up their own legal system for the reception of such applications, and it is therefore absolutely necessary to try to harmonise and coordinate these systems from now on, subordinating them to the european interest. it should be remembered that these are innovative investment products which offer very attractive advantages, which means that they will be well received and encouraged by the market. the european parliament has already dealt with the problem of derivative financial instruments, stressing their important role in the capital markets today, but above all stating their advantages and their risks. it seems, therefore, that the rapporteur is quite right in believing that it is essential to develop a regulatory regime which is an incentive for investors in relation to hedge funds and in pointing out that legal uncertainty makes the use of derivatives markets in certain member states very difficult. the rapporteur also stresses that the lack of regulation of certain types of over-the-counter derivatives poses a serious threat to the markets and, in particular, to financial firms which are increasingly using this type of application. the amendments tabled by the group of the party of european socialists, which take account of these concerns, nevertheless ensure a significant improvement on the text presented, by ensuring greater coverage of the risk inherent in these financial applications, in particular by requiring the provision of more and better information to investors. the report by mrs kauppi and mr purvis, which are under consideration, and the amendments by the group of the party of european socialists to which they refer, must therefore be approved by this parliament.
- in writing. - on 23 july 2003 the commission published a proposal for a comprehensive reform of the reduced vat rate system with a view to simplifying it and as part of the transition to a definitive system which would put an end to the attempt to apply reduced vat rates to certain labour-intensive services (directive 1999/85). this proposal was rejected by the european parliament in december 2003 and it could not be unanimously supported by the council, forcing the commission to put forward proposals to extend the current pilot scheme for two years until the end of 2005, which we support in this context. this would allow member states a certain degree of flexibility in the area of taxation, so that they retain the freedom of choice in the implementation of their social and cultural policies and can apply reduced vat rates to certain areas of activity. the harmonization of taxes and duties is wrong in the context of the internal market, as it has consequences for the way governments can finance their budgets, not least for a country like portugal, where 22% of government revenue in 1998 came from vat and reduced vat rates accounted for 37% of vat revenue in the sectors concerned. it is now important to carry out an evaluation of the present directive at the end of the period.
in writing. - (pt) i support this report, which calls for the adoption of a commission proposal on the reform of the reduced vat rate system, more specifically on the experimental system of reduced vat rates for certain labour-intensive services. the commission has amended its proposal in line with the amendments proposed by the european parliament on 4 december 2003. as parliament pointed out at the time, it was important that the three-year trial period be extended for a further two years. this would allow member states which normally apply reduced vat rates to carry out a thorough assessment and avoid significant price increases for the services provided. i agree with the rapporteur that this directive will benefit both users and providers of labour-intensive services in europe. i voted yes.
in writing. - i support this report on the commission proposal amending directive 77/799/eec, which, as the report states, does not raise any objections in its content, and it is therefore proposed that the commission proposal be adopted without amendments. the commission's proposal aims to simplify procedures and remove certain ambiguities in a text dating from 1977. the main innovation is the introduction of the possibility for two or more member states to carry out simultaneous checks in cases where a taxable person is active in more than one member state, in order to avoid a tax evader hiding in another member state. i agree with the rapporteur that the council will ask for a change in the legal basis in this area and that there is no need for parliament to express its opinion again. in its reply to the council on the amendment of the legal basis, parliament stated that this type of administrative cooperation does not affect the substantive tax legislation but is rather intended to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market and that there was therefore no need for the amendment of the legal basis. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) this report, which deals with job creation in the service sector, contains some positive elements, such as the recognition of the valuable contribution that a developed and dynamic cooperative service sector can make to service production and the call to promote policies to support the specific sectors of services, taking into account the advantages and needs of each region. it then ends by going into the complex fields of concern to the council (competitiveness), which it urges to give much higher priority to the creation of an internal market for services, but without distinguishing between public services and other services. however, the report also contains some important points on the working conditions in certain areas where there are low wages, low skill levels and discrimination, especially against women, and on the pressure on public services due to cuts in social spheres. it is not, however, a question of the commission's ability to take a decision on the matter, but of the commission's ability to take a decision on the matter. that is why i have abstained.
in writing. - (pt) the i have voted in favour, supporting this initiative of the committee on employment and social affairs and the kratsa-tsagaropoulos report. just looking at the statistics, one can easily see the key role of the service sector in job creation. in the eu, services accounted for 68.8% of total employment in 2000, compared with 62.7% in 1991. however, this data takes on a different dimension when compared with the us economy, where the service sector accounts for 80% of economic activity and employs 80% of the working population. the services sector is a catalyst for future growth and the opportunities it offers must be exploited to the full. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when she asks the commission to present as soon as possible a white paper on the development of an effective internal market for services, with particular emphasis on investment in research and development, both public and private, and with a serious focus on smes as drivers. i particularly share the view that today it is most important to invest in people, in men and women, and that education and training - along with the spread of new technologies - are the essential elements of an effective policy for the renewal of the service sector and for the desired job creation.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. as the commission concludes, managing migration flows is crucial if we are to avoid a slowdown in economic growth and a decline in the quality of life. it is therefore positive that the commission has been able to identify the areas where there could be potential benefits from a joint eu action, taking into account the different realities and values of the countries, namely labour market integration, recognition of immigrants' qualifications, education and language skills, housing and urban areas, health and social services and social and cultural integration. i also welcome the introduction of the concept of 'citizenship' because it gives legal immigrants a dignified status that can cement their belonging. integration is a crucial factor for social cohesion and depends on factors such as education, language skills and participation in society. finally, i welcome the explicit recognition that 'migration must not be seen only from an economic point of view', which is the basis for a policy of profound humanity and social realism. the portuguese people's party, cds/pp, says that access must be strict, that reception and integration must be generous and humane. (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report deals with the sensitive issue of immigration, integration and employment. the text draws attention to very important issues concerning migration flows, the better integration of immigrants and the need for cooperation with the countries of origin. it is vital for labour markets and economic growth in all eu member states. it is a report which we could have supported if it had not been for the adoption of a number of amendments by the gue/ngl group which have added very little to the report but have made it a leftwing document and not a compromise which the whole of parliament could support. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - (pt) this is a report with many contradictions, with some positive aspects but with several very negative ones. it is therefore in favour of treating victims of trafficking in human beings not as criminals but as victims of crime, which is a positive step, but it also supports the council's decision to publish legal immigration quotas by the member states, which could be used at eu level to establish a common negotiating position in the negotiations on readmission agreements. it rejects the creation of an autonomous border guard body but confirms its support for the establishment of a community-funded european border guard consisting of specialised units which could be temporarily deployed to risk sections along the external borders to support national authorities, as and when required and at the request of the member states. we are opposed to the creation of a european border guard with functions falling entirely within the competence of national authorities, and we are in favour of more efficient national police forces and appropriate cooperation between them. unfortunately, some of our proposals have not been adopted, including the rejection of any kind of quota system in the field of immigration, which is only intended to meet the needs of european businesses and which means a plundering of the productive forces of third countries. that is why we have voted as we have.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour of this report because i believe that organised crime, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and drugs continue to pose a threat to the internal security of the european union and call for greater security at the external borders. while this is a national task, which should therefore be the responsibility of the member states, there is an urgent need for the same high standards of security at all the eu's external borders, which requires both a sharing of the costs of managing vulnerable border sections and increased efficiency in the form of joint action. certain tasks could therefore be carried out at eu level in order to support, complement or coordinate the action of the national authorities. i agree with the rapporteur on the need to strengthen operational cooperation and the exchange of information on illegal immigration, and i am not opposed to the commission's proposal to establish a community-funded european border guard consisting of specialised units which could be temporarily deployed to risk sections along the external borders, as and when required and at the request of the member states, to support the national authorities without interfering with the competences of the member states.
in writing. - (pt) the this directive, which dates from 1996, aims to remove the obstacles and uncertainties which can create problems in the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. the directive contributes to legal certainty and makes it possible to determine the working conditions of workers temporarily employed in a member state other than the one whose law regulates the employment relationship. although the commission considers the implementation of the directive to be satisfactory, there are states which have been slow in transposing the directive into their legal system and there are companies which still maintain that there are difficulties in implementing it, so that workers continue to be discriminated against. however, the commission has set up a group of national experts to find solutions to the problems encountered. the commission will now have to propose the introduction of methods of monitoring non-implementation and monitoring systems, as well as measures to combat corruption in the various member states. a public register of undertakings at european level should also be established, containing information on undertakings which have been the subject of fines or other financial penalties imposed pursuant to this directive, and the principle of mutual recognition should also apply to the financial penalties imposed, with a view to facilitating their cross-border application. these were amendments which we tabled and which we regret were not adopted. that is why we have abstained from the final vote.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the free movement of workers has led to discrimination, particularly in some member states, which has often been accompanied by abuse. in particular, issues of minimum wages, paid holidays and subcontracting, and social security for workers should be the subject of permanent monitoring within the eu. in this context, the glase report focuses on reviewing the ways in which the directive is being implemented in relation to the posting of workers to other eu member states in the context of a service, since the short period of application of the directive does not yet allow for a comprehensive and detailed picture of the situation, either in quantitative or qualitative terms. i also welcome the fact that the commission has set up an expert group to find solutions to some of the problems which have been observed so far, particularly those relating to information and control of national legislation in relation to the implementation of the directive and the application of sanctions. like the rapporteur, i would urge that alongside this monitoring, concrete proposals be made to combat effectively the problem of undeclared work and other abuses.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. they serve primarily financial speculation and, contrary to their alleged 'crisis-mitigation' purpose, increase the inherent risks of the financial sector, because because of the large amounts of money (it is assumed that there are hedge funds alone of about 500 billion dollars!) increase the volatility of the capital markets. it was hedge funds that were behind the european financial crisis of 1992 and the asian crisis of 1997-98. recent studies by the world bank show the impact of financial crises on the decline in world output. many of these funds are domiciled in tax havens and also contribute to money laundering. this report, which we reject, is part of the action plan for financial services and is designed to promote and support these instruments by designating hedge funds as 'advanced alternative investment'. the aid reduces excessive regulation and thus further liberalises the legal framework for these funds when the opposite is needed, namely the introduction of a tax on capital movements which would not only bring in revenue for other activities but also help to combat purely speculative movements and to better control these instruments.
in writing. - (pt) i can understand the rapporteur's view of the advantage of having a albeit rather loosely regulated system of 'hedge funds' a term covering a wide range of financial products which we can call 'advanced alternative investment forms'. the funds to be covered by this legislation should be defined as such, since they have to comply with certain specific provisions. however, the fact is that the hedge fund market today is fragmented due to the different regulatory systems, the lack of consistent platforms and discriminatory tax regimes. as the rapporteur points out, tax systems and the lack of a common financial market are an obstacle, with many member states imposing tax penalties on investors if they invest in hedge funds based abroad. however, it is also true that there is a growing interest among both institutional and private investors in such investment opportunities, but that they still lack adequate funds within eu jurisdictions. at present, hedge funds are also subject to legislative changes in various member states. i voted in favour because i believe that hedge funds and their derivatives contribute to the efficiency and self-regulation of financial markets and that it may be beneficial to introduce mild regulation in a free-floating global market with rules... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in the light of the recent earthquake in bam, i voted in favour of the resolution on humanitarian aid to iran. the european parliament has understood that this humanitarian disaster should be followed up by rapid and effective assistance to the victims of the disaster. it is worth noting that portugal was one of the first countries to send search and rescue teams to the scene and that they did a worthwhile job. the fact that i voted in favour is also because i wanted to achieve this humanitarian objective despite the political conditions prevailing in iran which prevent the free exercise of democracy and which make it impossible for international control of military programmes to develop nuclear energy. the political message from the european parliament has been clear, however, and the iranian authorities should respond to this gesture of goodwill, which was not bound by preconditions, by re-establishing minimum democratic conditions for the operation of the state and allowing the necessary inspections of the nuclear programme.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid and multifaceted growth of the information society and the development of increasingly varied and easily accessible means and technologies, instruments and media in a variety of forms, are putting new and continuing pressure on the protection of copyright and related rights, in particular on the legal rules covering them and the means of ensuring their practical effectiveness, without at the same time infringing other fundamental rights and freedoms. we are clearly in the centre of the volcano of globalisation, in the pioneering territory par excellence of the global village, and where the instruments of regulation and protection must therefore be increasingly international, without prejudice to the responsibility of the states. one of the novelties imposed by developments in recent decades, which have been steadily intensifying in recent years, is precisely that of these collective management societies. these are unavoidable realities of our times and their regulation is therefore of growing importance. our group recognises their important role as voluntary associations of authors, performers and other rights holders in the effective defence of their intellectual and economic interests and of their intellectual property or related rights in domestic and foreign performances. and we believe that these management companies, in addition to offering protection to the community of creators, artists and others, in the context of related rights in the sense of acting as trustees, also play a cultural function of the first magnitude that is projected throughout society in general and in an increasingly open and plural world. in these circumstances, we congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done and she presents us with a clear outline of the lines we must follow if we really want - and we want - to see the rights management framework in our soon-to-be-enlarged european union move decisively along the lines of simplification with reforms and comparable parameters, as is urgently needed. we cannot continue to have too many different and often incompatible statutes and practices within the european union itself. this situation of blatant disparity weakens us all, it shuts out our creators, artists and other actors in this crucial area for the future, and it leaves us particularly vulnerable and unprotected in facing an increasingly aggressive global competition, and sometimes even savage and pirate, as we know. we therefore generally agree with the rapporteur on the lines she points out as regards the forms of organisation of management companies, licensing issues, areas of activity, internal structure, reciprocity agreements, cultural or social tasks and other tasks of common interest, their supervision and control, as well as the activities of management companies, dispute resolution mechanisms and transparency, which is a fundamental requirement for all those concerned, both internally and externally. a final word to congratulate the work of the committee on culture and communication and in particular the suggestions it has made to the commission on the future directives on television, radio, communication, broadcasting and telecommunications in the digital field, which are very timelyly welcomed in this report and which are already contained in paragraph 29 of the resolution which we shall be voting in favour of. it is essential that these directives also directly enshrine the importance of copyright and its protection, including specific provisions on copyright. it is essential that the european union properly promotes european art and culture and, on the one hand, strengthens the confidence of all creators and other actors in our countries in all areas of cultural creation, cherishing them and encouraging them to create new works insofar as they can believe in adequate protection against piracy, while, on the other hand, guaranteeing their moral rights and the right financial incentives. we shall therefore vote in favour and join in congratulating the rapporteur.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words to emphasize once again how much we regret and condemn the situation that the mugabe regime is imposing on its people and on its country, zimbabwe, turning one of the most prosperous countries in southern africa into one of the most miserable and least developed countries, with constant and increasing human rights abuses, and to record the reasons why we are joining this resolution of commitment, which is once again condemnatory, as we have done many others throughout this legislature, calling for the renewal of sanctions and the expansion of diplomatic pressure on the mugabe regime leading to democratic transformation in that country. i also take this opportunity to ask the commission to be more concrete in supporting authors from civil society. i recently asked the commission a question on this subject, and i was satisfied with the answer given by commissioner poul nielson, who said that the commission intends to continue its assistance to civil society actors in supporting projects and/or activities in the field of human rights and democratisation and in helping them to strengthen their capacity to promote internal dialogue, a line which we support and which is, moreover, reflected both in our own motion for a resolution and in the compromise text. but we wanted it to be more concrete: what concrete action is being taken, with whom, by what means, and with what intensity? i believe that closer coordination of political pressure between the commission and parliament could perhaps achieve more effective results. and we must achieve more effective results not only because of the extent of the drama in zimbabwe, but also because it can be a hotbed of instability and a bad example to follow. we have recently been concerned by similar news, or rather news that similar actions are also being prepared in namibia, although this is not the official position of the namibian government. and there are also reports - which, incidentally, justified the submission of a written motion for a resolution by some colleagues - of an abnormal rate of murders of farmers in the boer area of south africa. so this is one aspect of the persecution of farmers in zimbabwe, something that should concern us because it may spread to southern africa.
mr president-in-office of the council, since you are well acquainted with the text of the convention, would you be able to tell me frankly and honestly whether you are aware of any more complete text, more suitable for a positive conclusion than the text of the draft convention? i ask this because you, like me, are familiar with the text of the draft convention. i would also like to ask you to clarify a point which is the subject of much discussion in this debate and elsewhere, namely the famous text of naples, which is the subject of much talk and much writing. what's the naples text? is it the text of the naples council that was on the table in naples or is it what remains after it has been sifted through at the brussels summit? i would like to see a frank and sincere clarification of these two points.
mr president, the renowned french economist jean-paul fitoussi, whose wit and good sense we all appreciate, has said that the economic government of the european union is composed exclusively of three members: the secretary of state responsible for budgetary surveillance, the minister responsible for monetary policy and the minister responsible for coordinating and promoting competition policy. this formula is intended to underline the current fragility of the union's economic governance structure, but it also acknowledges the fundamental and decisive role that competition policy plays in that governance. moreover, the minister for competition concentrates, within the limits of his powers, the executive, legislative and judicial powers. competition in european culture is a means of progress and development and never an ideological end in itself, and must therefore be an instrument for strengthening and consolidating a market economy without abandoning its social dimension and always at the service of consumers. this policy must therefore involve all the institutions of the union and in particular parliament, since it is the body that represents the european citizens as a whole. at a historic juncture when the union is faced with the challenge of economic and social progress and therefore feels the need to re-shape the institutional framework of its functioning, it is to be hoped that the european parliament will absorb new powers which are not merely advisory in the context of this policy. on the other hand, competition policy will only be fully successful if the commission is able to create a level playing field for the application of rules in all member states. some progress has been made in this respect over the past year, but this is an area of intervention where continuous action is needed, especially in the face of a difficult economic environment which encourages member states to use state aid mechanisms to safeguard their businesses and the employment of their nationals. the report by commissioner mario monti is a positive and hopeful factor for improving competition policy within the european union. the commission's proposal for a resolution, if some of the proposed amendments are adopted, will also be a very important policy document and an excellent basis for the commission itself.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european statistical office is a very good one. the audit work carried out by the commission's internal audit service, as well as by the audit department of eurostat, deserves our applause and was instrumental in this outcome. the action plan presented by the commission, with its objectives of focusing work on the most important statistics, reducing the institute's exposure to external work and making statistical data available to the public, diverting them from purely commercial logic and increasing transparency and accountability, responds to our essential concerns. we will, however, be attentive to the implementation of this plan and to the review and audit of all the work carried out. the analysis and audit of the efficiency and simplification of procedures, the quality of the work carried out, the relevance and interest of the objects dealt with will be increasingly of concern to the community institutions. in any event, it became clear that the current process of reforming the commission has not sufficiently clarified the respective responsibilities of directors-general and commissioners and has not ensured that the golden rule of democracy - accountability and ultimate accountability for political office holders - can be met. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of the activities of selfemployed persons and selfemployed persons in the framework of the internal market is a good example of the need to ensure that the rules on selfemployment are applied in a uniform manner. it can be seen that in most of the contracts concluded by eurostat with third parties, other commission departments or even interinstitutional bodies were involved. we are particularly concerned that, contrary to eurostat, things seem to be going on as before in the departments which manage external aid and are responsible for authorising expenditure in some of the most problematic situations. it is necessary to continue the modernisation of the accounting system and to ensure that it can respond to the most obvious problems of management and control of external contracts as well as of community funds administered by third parties. another area where progress seems to be very slow, if not non-existent, is the common agricultural policy. the picture painted by the excellent special reports of the court of auditors on export refunds is worrying. it is unacceptable that the report drawn up in 2003 merely repeats what was said in 1990 on vital points, because in 13 years, strictly speaking, nothing has changed. it is unacceptable that the commission has not put into effect its policy of rotating irresponsible officials in the field of export refunds, when this is where it is most urgent to do so. it is unacceptable that export refunds for sugar continue to be granted to countries from which we import sugar freely. the community budget calls for this transparency, but the commission still refuses to make public the list of payments made to commercial enterprises, particularly in the field of export refunds and internal surplus disposal measures. in a recent opinion poll, adulteration of foodstuffs appears to be the top concern of european citizens, both in the europe of 15 and in the europe of 25. but the commission continues to shirk its great responsibilities in this area. the community budget funds heavy operations to count olive trees and assess their production status, which are neither meaningful nor effective, while it ignores the fight against olive oil adulteration. the budget imposes heavy fines on farmers who produce more than their quota of milk, but the commission refuses to intervene when large european companies market and receive community subsidies for the disposal of butter adulterated with lubricants and beef fodder. finally, a word about the challenges we face. the commission is preparing to propose an increase in funding for research and development, which, as i have already said, is a symbol of bureaucracy and inefficiency. if the logic of its action in this area is not fundamentally changed, if its philosophy of action is not streamlined and if it persists in the heavy-duty mechanisms that have been used up to now, the commission will turn a good idea into a bad policy.
mr president, after the european parliament granted discharge to the community budget for 2001 last april, it is now necessary to assess the terms of the measures adopted by the commission in response to the recommendations contained in the resolution granting discharge. it should be noted at the outset that the report under consideration today reflects a remarkable work carried out by rapporteur paulo casaca, which cannot but be highlighted, not least because it will certainly leave a positive mark on the current legislature, emphasising that the political role of parliament is far from being exhausted. the rapporteur has rightly chosen to devote particular attention to the accounting system, the operation and control of eurostat and the financial implementation of the common agricultural policy. as regards the accounting system and the financial implementation of the cap, the situation is far from satisfactory and it is imperative that the commission speed up the introduction of accounting harmonization and rationalization measures and pay particular attention to the control of financial flows relating to refunds, exports and stock management. as regards the eurostat case, while it is confirmed that most of the serious irregularities took place before 1999, it is still worrying that there are likely to be further breaches of the financial regulation after that date. it is up to the commission to draw the appropriate lessons from this case, which do not end with financial irregularities but, on the contrary, take on the contours of political responsibility which call into question the very functioning of the institutions. this report does not feed into any witch-hunt procedure, which would be extremely negative at the present stage of the european procedure, but it does indicate that the eurostat case may not be an isolated case and may not even be the most serious case in the commission's activity. i conclude, mr president, by saying that it is therefore essential that the essence of the political message which results from the irregularities which have been established is not lost and that the rapporteur's prudent, sensible and effective recommendations are properly understood, respected and followed up. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner philippe busquin for his presence and to stress the quality of the commission's communication on the future of the textile industry in an enlarged europe. we are, however, very concerned and have many questions. i will now mention a few of them, which have already been mentioned by my colleague, mrs concepció ferrer. how will the commission translate its proposals into specific measures? what is the timetable and budget for their implementation? i would like to recall the optimistic words of commissioner pascal lamy in regard to the textile and clothing industry, which he described as a sector with a future in the european union and of the greatest importance in the european trade agenda. commissioner lamy recently said that 'in 2005 there will be no more import quotas, but our interest in industry will remain'. we must face the challenges of the present and the future, but we must also make a firm commitment to safeguarding jobs in this sector. to this end, we are aware that it is essential to promote the competitiveness of enterprises through innovation, productive flexibility, training and retraining of the current workforce in this industry. i would like to stress a few points from mrs concepció ferrer's motion for a resolution: - first, the vital role of the structural funds. i support the request that the financial framework of the structural funds include a specific regional initiative for the sector to deal with the difficulties that will arise after 2005 and to adapt workers to the new requirements of the labour market; - secondly, the creation of a textile and clothing observatory. this measure would allow the analysis of the development of trade between china and the european union and ensure the respect of the rules in force in both regions. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. all bilateral trade agreements of the european union must incorporate the principle of corporate social responsibility, respect for the fundamental rights of the international labour organisation and sustainable development.
mr president, it is well known that the textile and clothing industry remains very important in the enlarged european union, employing some 2 700 000 people, mainly women, after having lost some 850 000 jobs and many thousands of businesses between 1990 and 2001. the threat of total abolition of import quotas on 1 january next year could thus cause serious problems for development and worsen unemployment, especially in areas with a high concentration of these industries, as is the case in portugal, particularly in the north and the beiras. and it is noted that there is already a serious problem of relocation of multinationals. for example, at this moment in my own city, vila nova de gaia, a company with german capital, brax portugal, is threatening to close within days and to put 450 workers, mostly women, out of work. it's a difficult situation that we're living through a little bit all over the country. it must be borne in mind that this textile and clothing sector is strategic for the european union, with great potential for the future, and that it can make a huge contribution to promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion. on the other hand, it can cause serious problems of unemployment and development blockages if these situations are not prevented by appropriate measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that is why we consider it essential that the commission should present a concrete, coherent and explicit action plan with regard to instruments, financial means and timetable, and that it should give particular emphasis to these points: the promotion of innovation and the use of new technologies in the sector, the strengthening of interaction between all the branches of industry, the implementation of a broad vocational training programme, the modernisation and strengthening of support for small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector and the protection of the environment. it is also necessary to define a community programme - with adequate means of support - for the sector, particularly for the disadvantaged regions which depend on it. and yet, it is important to take account of a sectoral negotiating perspective for the textile and clothing sector, particularly in the context of the world trade organisation negotiations.
mr president, i would like to welcome these initiatives, both the oral question and the legislative resolution which we are voting on tomorrow, and say that we will support them as well as some amendments tabled by colleagues on this subject. our vote is for greater emphasis on the question of free, equal and fair trade and the principle of reciprocity in international trade relations, which, as we know, is not the case today, and the textile and clothing sector is a case in point. we also believe that it is essential to pay more attention to the case of china, to treat it objectively and realistically, because a mere observer is not enough, very concrete measures must be taken to prevent that country's hegemony in terms of international trade in textiles and clothing. china already has a world share of almost 25%, which is truly frightening, particularly for countries which are really developing countries, such as bangladesh or vietnam, and which may also be victims of china's role as a compressor in this sector. we believe that china cannot continue to be treated as a developing country, its weight in industry must be taken into account, otherwise we risk killing the entire textile and clothing industry in the world, wherever it may be. finally, on the question of access to markets, we would consider it interesting and useful if the resolution could mention - it is no longer possible at this stage - the need to put into practice a concrete set of commercial measures to be taken by companies to conquer new markets. it would be essential to create support mechanisms for participation in trade fairs, for the opening of representative offices and distribution platforms, for market prospecting missions, etc. - measures which we leave to the commission's consideration.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was in the textile industry that the industrial revolution began in the last quarter of the 18th century in england. it has a pioneering history, an active present and a future full of challenges and uncertainties. the european textile industry is now threatened by competition from countries with very low prices for their products, where there are no environmental concerns or constraints. the exploitation of labour, especially child labour, reminds us of the dramatic beginnings of our industrial revolution. the european textile industry survives, modernizes and renews itself in spite of everything, bridging the gap between industry, crafts and art, contributing to a way of life. the liberal dogmas which prevented the european union from adopting an industrial policy, and which even feared a deindustrialization of europe, have been overcome, and european leaders are now opening their eyes and proposing to defend the european textile and clothing sector. we therefore welcome the commission's communication, although i consider it to be quite lengthy, and we support the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs concepció ferrer, which contains the essential elements of a european policy for the sector. as trade policy is a matter for the european union alone, it is imperative that the commission does not use the textile and clothing sector as a bargaining chip to obtain concessions in other areas which are considered more attractive. it would be a serious shortsightedness to do so and ethically unfortunate. on the contrary, the negotiators of the doha development agenda must strive to achieve conditions of access to third country markets which are fair, requiring in particular the application of the principle of reciprocity and the opening up of new markets. portugal, as everyone knows, is a country where employment and economic and social cohesion are very much dependent on the textile and clothing sector, and is therefore very sensitive to crises or the decline of that industry. there are even portuguese regions with a high industrial concentration that are already in crisis at the moment. the commission is therefore asked to act and not to rely on rhetoric.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, not on purpose! on the day we discuss this report and receive the secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan, this parliament received a sad message from the jurassic park of tyrannies: we are prevented from receiving oswaldo payá, who we awarded the sakharov prize for 2002, on the same day as we receive kofi annan, who was awarded the sakharov prize for 2003. this authoritarian blockade by the communist regime of fidel castro in cuba, a reminder of the worst of the nazis and stalinism we have lived through in the 20th century, calls attention to a relevant part of this report, that in the united nations and in its reform the european union and others will succeed in putting human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms at the centre of the world agenda, and this with all the consequences as suggested in paragraph 19. the situation in payá is scandalous, as is the cuban regime's hostile attitude towards this parliament. and the bigger scandal would be the public silence of all these scandals. we are sure that our parliament will send a very strong message to cuba through kofi annan and that, in the form of a permanent open invitation to oswaldo payá, we will continue to affirm our active solidarity with the 2002 sakharov prize and with the cuban democrats. a final word to express my appreciation for some of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, in particular amendment no 8, which draws attention to the importance of the convention on human cloning and to the initiative of costa rica, which we must support.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. this is particularly true when the eu is seen as a political-military bloc, when it is wrongly assumed that the so-called european constitution has already been adopted and ratified, and when it is also reinforced in the supranational character of important areas in a way which i find particularly out of step with reality, considering the attitude of the great powers at the brussels summit. it is a proposal which directly interferes with the sovereignty of each country in its international relations. the resolution goes so far as to say that 'when the eu makes a declaration on behalf of the european union or the european community, member states should refrain from making national declarations, which should only be done exceptionally and after giving reasons to the eu presidency'. it is a resolution which, while addressing the serious problems facing humanity, does not deal with them in any serious way, and in establishing a power perspective, it breaks through the political-military blocs within the framework of a strengthened multilateral system by giving the security council a greater role and the un general assembly a correspondingly smaller one.
in writing. - (pt) the the main thrust of this report is to strengthen the eu's position in the un. the council also adopted a number of proposals for institutional reform of the un and reaffirmed its commitment to developing and promoting democratic values and respect for human rights. there are, however, some points with which i completely disagree. secondly, there are points where the rapporteur seems to have overlooked the fact that no european constitution has been adopted, but that we have only a draft constitutional treaty! firstly, the eu is not a legal entity and there is no foreign minister. we are also confronted with the unrealistic idea of an enlarged un security council in which the eu has a seat, without considering the more than probable opposition to this by the other members of the security council and the reluctance of france and the united kingdom to relinquish their seats. the idea of abolishing the veto of one country is also absurd. in summary, i voted for the report because of the ideas behind it, but i voted against recital g and paragraphs 5, 6, 11, 18, 33 and 35. as regards the amendments tabled, i think it is essential to support amendment no 8, which reiterates the wish for a universal ban on human cloning.
in writing. - (pt) the this report is intended to support the first proposal for a regulation on financial and technical cooperation with the occupied territories. it does so to a certain extent, so that the few amendments are limited to clarifying the provisions in terms of content. the report is intended solely to improve and clarify the commission's text at the technical and legal level. this is a matter on which there seems to be general agreement. the aim is to provide assistance in the event of occupation not only to states and regions but also to local authorities, regional organisations, public bodies, local or traditional communities, business support organisations, private operators, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations. i can give my full support to this cause. the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy adopted this proposal unanimously at its meeting on 12 january 2004. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the commission's proposal, which has been examined by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and has resulted in only one amendment, is of the utmost importance for plant genetic resources. this long-debated issue was incorporated in 2001 into the international treaty on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. the purpose of this proposal for a council decision is therefore to ratify the international treaty on behalf of the community. the importance of adopting this report is shown by the fact that 33 countries - out of the 40 co-signatories - have already ratified the international treaty covering 35 food crops and 29 fodder crops, which establishes a legally binding overall framework for the sustainable conservation of plant genetic resources in the food and agriculture sectors. another clear sign is that the report was adopted unanimously by the committee responsible. the aim is to give all the signatories of the treaty access to such resources, while allowing them to share the commercial and other benefits of such access. i voted yes.
mr president, i would like to say that what is particularly at stake in the vote on these reports by mr fava and mr sanders-ten holte on the single european sky is the adoption of rules for the framework and organisation of european airspace aimed at greater operability, safety and punctuality of the air navigation services provided daily to thousands of consumers, most of whom are ourselves members of parliament. the interinstitutional agreement reached shows that it was possible not only to improve this regulatory framework in compliance with the treaties, but also to accept the rights of the member states concerning the exercise of their sovereignty over the airspace overlying their territories, to safeguard existing international agreements - such as the one which delegates control of air traffic in the north atlantic to portugal - to define, in agreement with the member states concerned, flight information areas, known as 'functional blocks', or to choose the providers of air navigation services. the most important of all air safety interests were thus taken into account: the strengthening of technical cooperation and interoperability, coordination with the military aviation authorities and the sovereign rights of the member states in the field of air navigation. my vote in favour was bound to accompany this convergence, which has resulted in such a general agreement being reached, extending from the trade unions to the operators, from the national authorities to the commission, the council and the european parliament.
in writing. - (pt) although i fully agree with the objectives set out in the proposals before us, namely to reduce delays in european air traffic by making more efficient use of the airspace of the member states while maintaining high safety standards, i have always expressed concern about their content. i would therefore like to mention three points which i consider particularly important in the agreement just concluded, namely that the definition of the functional airspace blocks is a matter for the member states alone and cannot be changed by the eu, that it is recognised that a more efficient use of airspace requires closer cooperation between civil and military authorities, and that each member state is free to designate service providers within its own airspace, under the responsibility of the national surveillance authorities and without being subject to any other body.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour because i believe that an effective common policy on air transport must also involve improving the current safety standards and generally making air traffic in europe more efficient. the fact is that, without effective guarantees of regularity and safety of air services at european level, there will be no free movement of goods, persons and services as provided for in the treaties. optimizing capacity to meet the needs of all airspace users and minimising flight delays also justify my position. i welcome the realism of the joint text, which is a clear step forward from the commission's original proposal, which restricted too much the sovereignty of states over their airspace and which was somewhat vague on the common transport policy and the military sphere. in this respect, prudence requires that the powers of the states and the international agreements which bind them be strictly observed, leaving it to their initiative and decision whether to extend cooperation further. i therefore believe that it is justified to introduce provisions to ensure that each member state can take the necessary measures to protect its national interests in the field of security and defence policy.
in writing. - (pt) the the proposal which the conciliation procedure has resulted in meets some of the concerns we have expressed since the beginning of the matter, first and foremost with regard to sovereignty over airspace, since it has been decided that the functional airspace blocks should be defined by agreement between the member states. in the event of disagreement, they may choose to refer disputes to the single sky committee, whose opinion they must take into account, but on this point it would have been possible to go further by clarifying the relevant principles and provisions. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the establishment of a european union-wide police force. the control of the santa maria flight information region by portugal (assigned by icao) has also been secured. it has also been established that the provision of air services falls within the exercise of the prerogatives of public authorities and is not of an economic nature justifying the application of the treaty's competition rules, and that each member state is free to designate a service provider (public or private) within its own airspace. however, there are points on which we had tabled amendments which were not adopted and we have therefore voted neither for nor against.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the vote on the fava and sanders-ten holte reports on the single european sky was particularly concerned with adopting rules for the use and organisation of european airspace, so that the air services offered daily by millions of consumers would be more efficient, safer and more precise. the interinstitutional agreement concluded shows that it has been possible not only to improve this normative framework, taking into account the treaties and the rights of the member states to exercise their sovereignty over the airspace over their territory, and in compliance with existing international agreements such as the one which obliges portugal to monitor air traffic over the north atlantic (from the island of santa maria in the azores), but also to define, by agreement with the member states concerned, the flight information regions, the so-called functional airspace blocks, and to select the bodies responsible for providing air services. the interests of aviation safety, the most important of which are the strengthening of technical coordination and interoperability, the link between entities providing services to civil and military aviation and the sovereign rights of the member states in the field of aviation, have thus been taken into account. i voted in favour, because i naturally subscribed to this consensus, because it has made it possible to... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - this joint draft regulation is the part of the legislative package on the single european sky which immediately gives rise to the greatest amount of consideration. it thus provides for a functional separation between the national supervisory authorities and the service providers, since the different authorities may choose different service providers under a non-discriminatory charging scheme. although it is recognised that these services are clearly in the public interest, private operators may also be selected. in its proposals, the commission understood and treated airspace management as a simple economic service, similar to the liberalised telecommunications markets or transport services under the supervision of a european regulatory body. the agreed text departs from this line of thinking, since it does not merely expressly provide that each member state has the right to designate a service provider within its own airspace - under the responsibility of the national supervisory authorities and without being subject to any other body - in order to ensure full freedom in terms of both the means and the procedures for doing so. that is why i voted in favour. i would also like to emphasize the concept of 'experience in the field' as a criterion that national authorities should apply in their recognition procedure, as well as the mutual recognition of licences and the implementation of training programmes for air traffic controllers.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal for a directive of 12 july 2002 on public procurement aims to open up public markets and create a genuine internal market for public procurement in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. public contracts represent a significant market which is very attractive to the private sector, but they are also an important tool in economic policy which can have socio-economic consequences. once again, with reference to transparency, non-discrimination and equal treatment and with a prejudiced attitude towards public undertakings, it is insisted that the decisive factor in the award of public contracts is 'price'. this opens up these markets to foreign companies, which can jeopardize employment, regional development and the economy of a country, as is the case in portugal with the former sorefame and the shipyards of viana do castelo. instead, public contracts could be a tool for selective support to specific enterprises and regions in order to achieve economic, social and environmental objectives in accordance with the political choices of each country by virtue of other public contract award criteria. as regards the latter, the provisions of the regulation are very limited, although it is positive that the court has recently ruled that the contracting authority has the right to define criteria. we have therefore voted against the common position of the european parliament and the council.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) both proposals, one in general and the other specifically, aim to simplify and modernise the eu rules on public procurement procedures, a simplification which i of course welcome. the new rules are designed to improve the single market and to ensure greater transparency in this area. i therefore welcome the outcome of the conciliation procedure, particularly on the last point on which there was still disagreement, namely how the criteria for awarding contracts should be defined. i think that the provisions have been considerably improved and are therefore easier to understand. they will promote the free movement of goods in the award of public supply contracts, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services in the award of public service contracts and public works contracts on behalf of the state, municipal and regional authorities or other public bodies. i also agree with the call for the use of electronic signatures as a means of ensuring and strengthening the confidentiality of tenders. finally, i agree with the call - also made by the conciliation procedure - that member states should be obliged to implement the directive through effective, accessible and transparent mechanisms.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of public procurement, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover public contracts for the supply of water, energy, transport and postal services. the commission proposal for a directive of 12 july 2002 is a continuation of the liberalisation already begun in the energy, postal and transport sectors, in line with the objectives of the so-called lisbon strategy, and is intended to open up the water supply to private operators. public contracts in this area conflict with public services and, in the case of water supply, their purpose is to provide a legal framework for the award of contracts to private parties, a common practice in various portuguese municipalities. it is therefore strange - to put it mildly - that in the report on services of general interest in the last plenary session parliament spoke against the opening up of the water supply market, but that this parliament implicitly accepts this opening up. we have therefore voted against the common position of the council and the european parliament, although we note that some improvements have been made in relation to the original proposal.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i support this report, which deals with an issue of great importance for the lives of the citizens of the member states of the european union. the new legal instrument, a directive, aims to reduce the amount of packaging and other polluting waste by setting a number of targets which are more ambitious than those of the previous directive, which is still in force. particularly noteworthy are the changed minimum recycling rate, with 55% of packaging waste to be recycled by weight in 2008 compared to 25% today, and the range of very concrete measures to be taken to recover and recycle the different types of materials used in the manufacture of packaging. i support the idea that the member states' return, collection and recovery schemes should be open to participation by all interested parties and that any discrimination against imported products and heavy materials should be avoided. although i understand that the targets are quite unrealistic due to insufficient infrastructure, i very much regret that portugal, together with greece and ireland, will not have to implement the new directive before the end of 2011. i voted yes.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report focuses on eurostat and the irregularities detected since 1999. it should be recalled that the eurostat case has shown the consequences of the outsourcing policy implemented by the commission, which has allowed irregularities, fraud, nepotism and personal favouritism, in addition to which the services outsourced to private parties have often been of lower quality than the internal services of the commission. we welcome the proposals to internalise the work of eurostat and to carry out a review of all existing contracts. as regards relations between eurostat and the national statistical offices, account must be taken of the fact that the transmission of statistical information between different administrative bodies must be subject to confidentiality requirements. the eurostat case undermines the credibility of the commission's administrative reform and clearly shows how the internal information structure has been dismantled, how a culture of secrecy has prevailed, which has made possible a 'budget system' within eurostat, and how the commission's internal information and communication systems remain equally opaque. we therefore regret that the president of the commission has not proposed any structural change in the relationship between commissioners and directors-general, that he has not drawn the necessary conclusions as regards the political responsibility of commissioners, and that he has not condemned the failure of commissioner pedro solbes mira, the head of eurostat, to take action earlier in the light of the increasingly clear signs of irregularities in financial management.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as stated in the commission's original proposal, this technology is of obvious strategic importance and can bring considerable economic benefits. the current systems in the united states (gps) and russia (glonass) are funded and controlled by the military, so their signals could be interrupted or altered at any time if the two countries have to pursue their own interests. the galileo programme, on the other hand, has the distinction of being a purely civilian programme, which it should remain. in addition, it is becoming increasingly clear that it can be used as a tool in nature conservation and in the management and conservation of natural resources. there are also already good examples of its use in agriculture and civil protection (where it can help to select crops and prevent natural disasters). other areas such as transport (air, sea and inland waterway) will also benefit immensely from this new european technology. i am therefore pleased that this programme is being implemented on schedule and that the european geostationary navigation overlay service (egnos), whose purpose is to amplify the gps signal specifically for use by civil aviation, is already expected to be fully operational by april. i would like to stress, finally, that it should be ensured that basic services are free or almost free for users ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the pressure to force the adoption of the so-called european constitution is felt on all sides, firstly in the form of government declarations, with france and germany being particularly prominent, and secondly by the commission, the european parliament and unice, the major european employers' association, which has reiterated its wish for an early agreement on the draft constitution for the european union. this follows the first ministerial meeting under the irish presidency, which discussed what to do in the near future and which is said to have confirmed that the so-called european constitution drawn up by the convention is still the basis for negotiations and that it is desired to reach an agreement before the european parliament elections in june. the european parliament once again supports such an approach and stresses the importance of reaching an agreement before 1 may. the forces and interests behind the so-called european constitution - big capital and the great powers - are making a comeback, giving them the right, like us, to be at the forefront of pointing out the real aims and dangers of the 'european constitution' and to reject it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs clearly expresses the objective of competition policy, namely to create four competitive and open markets and to promote the completion of the internal market. this prioritization of competition over other economic, social or environmental considerations is accompanied by a policy of market liberalization and deregulation, coupled with a deep-seated aversion to state intervention in the economy, especially in the form of state aid. the authors support the xxxii report on competition policy. they want to simplify the procedures for the control of mergers. they want more control of state aid and they want a reduction in it. it welcomes the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets. they sow distrust in public enterprises. it calls for competition policy to play a major role in the media sector and for public broadcasters to be monitored for overcompensation and cross-subsidisation. they want a new body to be set up to deal more quickly with competition policy issues and believe that the award of contracts for the provision of services of general economic interest should be based on regular calls for tender. that is why we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - (pt) i think it is very important to deepen cooperation between the member states of the european union and between them and other european countries with a wealth of research experience in this field - russia, for example - as well as at international level, so that all the possibilities for the peaceful use of space are taken into account and so that answers can also be sought in this way to the serious problems and needs facing humanity. i therefore deeply regret that the majority of this house has rejected the amendments tabled by my group to ensure that space is used for peaceful purposes only for the benefit of all mankind and to express unequivocally opposition to any use of space for the development or promotion of military activities. we also deplore the fact that the european union should be given 'the greatest possible economic effort and in particular the development of space applications in the context of global security', recognising the contribution that 'european space policy can make to the common foreign and security policy, including the european security and defence policy', and that defence-related industrial programmes should be coordinated to achieve this aim, so that space policy becomes part of the militarisation of space, which i consider extremely dangerous. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - (pt) the i am pleased that two of my proposals have been incorporated into this resolution of the european parliament, as i believe they are important in supporting the clothing sector in the eu and in portugal. this is the case, first, of the development of a community programme - with appropriate financial support - for the textile and clothing sector, particularly for the most disadvantaged regions dependent on the sector, with support for research, innovation, vocational training and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and, second, of the development of a community programme aimed at creating new brands and promoting the sector's products abroad, particularly at international fairs. i regret, however, that other proposals have not been adopted, such as the need for a genuine action plan, which would describe in concrete, coherent and detailed terms the instruments, financial means and timetable, the need to protect production and the need to take a perspective which takes account of the interests of the clothing sector in the wto negotiations, so that it does not become a bargaining chip. i also regret that the idea of liberalization is not being questioned and i fear that the clothing sector will move out. the consequences of full liberalisation for this sector, especially after the expiry of the textiles and clothing agreement and china's accession to the wto, must be carefully assessed.
in writing. - i welcome and support the motion for a resolution on the future of the textile and clothing industry. in the light of enlargement and the forthcoming liberalization, i really hope that the recommendations of this proposal will not just be good declarations of intent, but will be given concrete and visible expression. this is the only way to ensure that jobs in this sector are preserved and that what remains of the european textile and clothing industry is saved. the unilateral abolition of import quotas, due to take place on 1 january 2005, puts the textile industry in the eu member states at a disadvantage compared with other producers on the world market. trade will only be free, fair and equal when a certain degree of reciprocity in international trade relations is ensured. the eu and its member states must implement programmes to support and promote smes, so as to encourage them to invest in research and development. i also agree that greater attention should be paid to the problems of the protection and application of intellectual property rights and that counterfeiting should be particularly combated. i believe that more attention should be paid to the case of china and that concrete measures should be taken to counter china's hegemony in the clothing sector. only high quality production can make european industry competitive under the present circumstances, which is why ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, portuguese newspapers have reported the situation of serious exploitation, ill-treatment and genuine slavery to which portuguese workers have been subjected in several countries of the european union, such as france, the netherlands and england. today, a portuguese newspaper, the jornal de notícias, states in its headline 'more portuguese are being mistreated in the netherlands', adding that the dutch authorities are already aware of the situation. but, the report points out, in the dutch case the reports are characterized by unprecedented violence against the portuguese. it is said that there are cases of assaults on workers in some companies in the netherlands or at the hands of recruiters, it is said that the most elementary rights, namely food and housing with a minimum of dignity, are not respected, it is said that there are real organized networks with branches in several countries that are engaged in recruiting workers, which is a real scandal. the question therefore, mr president, is whether we should act immediately to put an end to these situations. i ask you, mr president, to inform the commission and the council and to take immediate action to solve these serious problems and violations of the rights of workers and of people in general.
mr president, i too share the praise that has been given to this report. this is an excellent initiative and i also hope that, as most of my colleagues have said, it will be possible in the course of the work, particularly in the course of the plenary, to arrive at what was the initial philosophy of mr giorgios katiforis, because, as he said, the essential question that arises today in connection with this owninitiative report is whether or not the activity of rating agencies should be regulated and, if so, whether it should be regulated at national or european level. as the rapporteur himself said in his explanatory statement, this is clearly a political decision and this debate has been very enlightening on this point. the rapporteur, however, initially chose, without any doubt, the need for regulation, favouring regulation with a european dimension, despite the fact that some voices, particularly those closest to the sector, had expressed themselves in the opposite direction. the representatives of the sector understand that their activity is in the field of economic information and that it is therefore important to ensure full freedom of economic information. it is obvious that the need for information is not incompatible with the need and the interest of regulation, and while it can be said that the rating agencies have generally done their job well under the present system, it is also clear that - and there are many examples of this, as the honourable members who have spoken before me have already mentioned - new problems are arising today which require new solutions and, probably, a new system. the rapporteur's choices are also in line with the legislative approach developed by the european union in the financial services area. the protection of the public interest therefore justifies the introduction of regulatory bodies for this activity, in my view, because the legitimacy and eligibility of certain financial assets for certain types of applications for the benefit of the general public already depends on their outcome. i therefore believe that the rapporteur's first initiative, which was not fully welcomed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, should be taken up and supported by the house because, although it is a healthy bold move, it is absolutely justified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as is well known, this 1993 directive, which lays down minimum conditions for the organisation of working time and which aims to ensure the highest level of protection of the safety and health of workers, should have been transposed into national law before 1996, providing for limited possibilities for derogations. the fact is that several member states have used and abused these derogations and have failed to comply with several of their requirements, in particular the maximum limit on working hours in sectors such as health, the hotel and catering industry. and once again, after the seven-year deadline, the commission unfortunately does not have clear options for solving the problems identified. i therefore support the general proposals in the cercas report, in particular the call for an amended proposal for a directive to solve the existing problems and ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers, and for a comparative study on the effects of long working hours on the family and health and their effect on both sexes, and on the protection of employees and others who are harmed and put at risk by exhausted workers due to long working hours. the court of justice itself has taken a position in some cases, including the time available in working time, thus confirming the fundamental principle that hours which are not fully available to workers due to work duties should be considered as working time. as the rapporteur, alejandro cercas, who deserves my praise for his work, has suggested, we must put an end to the derogations in the form of the individual opt-out clause and avoid the increase in pressure on workers and abuses that threaten family life itself. my group, the gue, is putting forward proposals which will allow us to go a little further in the development of these rights. and i would stress our call for a revision of the directive which initially reduces the maximum weekly working time from 48 to 42 hours; and secondly provides for a gradual reduction of the working week to 36 hours over the next seven years, in order to encourage a further reduction in working time and redistribution of work in the member states as an effective way of reconciling working life with private life, of promoting equality for women and of combating unemployment. finally, i regret that the ppe is insisting on distorting the report adopted by the committee on employment, showing its intention to maintain unacceptable situations which call into question the effective protection of workers' health and safety. so you can be sure that we will continue to vote against these proposals, as we did in the committee on employment.
mr president, we are all well aware of the effect and impact on the world population of atypical pneumonia during much of the past year. the prolonged helplessness of the experts in the face of this epidemic has generated a new kind of insecurity which has resulted in a high number of victims in the first place and in a climate of instability in society because it has highlighted the risk to the lives of all those who could contract the disease. because i understand that life and health are the most precious things we have, i have come, mr president, to express my concern about this new epidemic: the flu whose virus comes from chickens and for which no solution has yet been found. according to studies recently revealed by the scientific community, there is only one certainty: it is highly contagious. and what can you do to counteract it? give him shots? how effective? delimit and isolate neighborhoods, cities or countries from communication with the outside? that was the act 80 years ago and the results are known. and the imports of this meat from all over the world, what security do they have? we all need more complete information so that at least the general population does not panic. we have a duty to act to contribute to a certain accountability in health policy in relation to this new disease against which we feel powerless. it is urgent that we understand whether other animals in our food chain are not exposed to the same risks, as only a few days ago pigs were mentioned as being among the most vulnerable to this type of virus. given these legitimate concerns, all the necessary means should be made available for the prevention and treatment of this epidemic.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the modernisation and harmonisation of social security systems are important issues for member states and we must therefore support initiatives that can help them achieve their objectives. the social protection committee, which is to promote cooperation on social policy between the member states, the candidate countries and the commission, is an example of such an initiative and that is why i voted for it. the committee shall monitor the social situation in the member states and developments in this field. it is responsible for presenting reports, mainly on poverty and social integration, issuing opinions, and establishing contacts and cooperation with the relevant bodies in this field. i would like to stress that the role of parliament must be given priority. the committee should effectively inform parliament so that parliament can follow up on cases and parliament's position should be taken into account in all activities of the social protection committee. finally, i would stress the need for a balanced gender balance in the committee's delegations.
in the case of the social protection committee, the council has adopted a decision on the basis of article 100a of the treaty on european union. it is the result of the entry into force of the treaty of nice on 1 february 2003 and, in particular, of the new legal basis under article 144 thereof. the commission and parliament have taken the opportunity to make some changes to the previously adopted procedure. one of the proposals adopted by the european parliament, which i put to the committee on employment and social affairs, is to ensure that the joint report on social protection pays particular attention to 'poverty situations and developments in social integration in the member states of the european union and in the acceding countries'. in addition, proposals were adopted to integrate the gender dimension in all areas of the committee's work and to report on the specific problems facing women, in particular the feminization of poverty and changes in family patterns. i therefore believe that it is important to work with gender-disaggregated indicators and to focus on the individual rather than the household.
in writing. - (pt) the the treaty of nice provides for the setting up of a committee on social protection, which is to be consultative and to promote cooperation on social protection between the member states and between the latter and the commission. a committee on social protection with a similar status and objectives was established by council decision of 29 june 2002 and has been functioning since then. the report must therefore meet a basic procedural requirement: to set up the committee in accordance with the new legal basis. nevertheless, we should welcome the fact that the committee has also been given the task of monitoring social conditions, promoting the exchange of good practice and establishing the necessary contacts with employers and employees. we also welcome the fact that there is talk of drawing up a joint annual report on social protection to be submitted to the council and the european parliament. in this connection, we believe that an effective procedure for informing parliament should be ensured so that it can regularly monitor matters relating to social protection, primarily poverty. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as you know, the treaty of nice provides for the setting up of a committee on social protection, which is to be consultative and to promote cooperation on social protection between the member states and between the member states and the commission. a committee on social protection with a similar status and objectives was established by council decision of 29 june 2002 and has been functioning since then. the report must therefore meet a basic procedural requirement: to set up the committee in accordance with the new legal basis. nevertheless, we should welcome the fact that the committee has also been given the task of monitoring social conditions. it shall promote the exchange of good practice and establish the necessary contacts with employers and employees. it will also work towards a more structured involvement of ngos and will pay particular attention to poverty-related issues. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a joint annual report on social protection to be submitted to the council and the european parliament. the report shall include a specific chapter on parliament's position on social protection issues. an effective information procedure should be established to enable the european parliament to follow up on a regular basis and the candidate countries should be informed and consulted. i have of course voted in favour of the report.
in the case of the mediterranean, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the catastrophic effects of the mediterranean sea. there is a clear need for international cooperation, because no state is able to combat the consequences of a major pollution of the sea on its own, and the aim of cooperation must be to prevent and effectively combat such pollution. i therefore support the conclusion by the eu of this protocol on cooperation to combat pollution in the mediterranean, one of the protocols to the barcelona convention (a regionally based initiative to which 14 mediterranean countries have acceded). with its long coastline, portugal should always support any initiative which promotes international cooperation to prevent and combat marine pollution. compatibility with eu legislation is not a problem, as this is even stricter than the protocol, as the eu has stepped up and strengthened its efforts to prevent and combat marine pollution. the initiatives we adopted at the last partsession are an example of this.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the threat of pollution. the terrible accidents of the last few decades have shown that no state is capable of combating the consequences of a major pollution of the sea on its own. like the other eu member states not bordering the mediterranean, portugal is not a signatory to this regional convention or to any of the eight additional protocols. article 29 of the barcelona convention requires a country to have signed the convention in order to be able to sign one of the protocols. regional initiatives include the un strategy for the implementation of the montego bay convention (un convention on the law of the sea) and are reflected in the lisbon agreement for the protection of the north-east atlantic. but as everyone knows, the lisbon treaty has not entered into force because it has not been ratified by spain and morocco, which cannot agree on the demarcation of the border between their two countries.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) parliament was asked to give its opinion on control measures to ensure a comprehensive monitoring and inspection system which would make it possible to exploit resources in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries on a sustainable basis. the stevenson report calls on the commission to be more consistent in the management of sustainable fisheries and calls for clarification of the eu's powers of control and inspection. the report also calls for more information on the costs of the controls and inspections carried out in the member states. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (neafc) provides for the establishment of a mechanism for the control and inspection of fishing grounds. the eu has chosen to divide the task between the commission and the member states. in practice, however, this situation has led to implementation problems, as well as certain limitations which are to be expected when responsibility is shared. without rejecting the system chosen by the eu, parliament must press for greater clarity in the powers of the commission on the one hand and the member states on the other. this could be done, for example, by setting up a european monitoring body.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the purpose of this regulation is to reduce the incidental catches of whale species such as dolphins and guinea pigs in fishing nets, as this poses a threat to the species. there are insufficient data to make an accurate calculation of the number of by-catches of whales in fishing nets and the importance of these catches for the populations. however, there is scientific documentation showing that most of the common fishing nets in europe result in by-catches of whales. by setting new targets to prevent the bycatch of whales, this proposal for a regulation is not merely a response to the scientific literature. it also makes a significant contribution to putting an end to the whaling of whales whose existence is otherwise threatened. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (pt) the i support this proposal for a regulation on measures to combat the unintentional catching of whale species such as dolphins and porpoises in fisheries and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98. although the protection of whales is covered by the habitats directive, the measures provided for in this directive have not proved sufficient to ensure the necessary protection. as the most serious problems seem to be caused by the use of fishing nets and drift nets, i think it would be appropriate to lay down rules and restrictions on the use of these techniques and i therefore support the proposals which go in that direction. however, despite the conclusions of certain scientific papers, i regret that there are no more precise data available to enable the number of by-catches of whales to be calculated accurately. the eu should work to address this lack of information - and urgently. we need to have reliable data on the populations and on unintended by-catches of whales in various fishing areas and then we need to develop more far-reaching protection measures.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the fishing activities of the united kingdom. the integration of environmental requirements into the cfp also includes the adoption of measures to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems. recent scientific reports have shown that certain deep-sea areas need protection against mechanical erosion caused by fishing gear. i therefore support the commission's ban on the use of driftnets in the darwin mounds. the measure will bring major environmental benefits without any significant impact on the fishing sector, as fishermen will continue to be able to use driftnets outside the fishing zone where the darwin mounds are located and within the protected zone they will be able to use vessel-built gear that does not come into contact with the seabed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the outermost regions have specific structural and socioeconomic conditions which may create persistent economic handicaps, including economic dependence on very few products and limited market access. their economy is based mainly on tourism, agriculture and fishing, as is the case with the autonomous region of the azores and madeira. this own-initiative report, which many people will welcome, is therefore important. i agree that article 299 (2) of the ec treaty should be the legal basis for all measures concerning the outermost regions, including fisheries. i also agree that it is important to compensate for the extra costs of marketing certain fishery products and that the budget for the posei programmes should be increased. we must continue to support the renewal and modernisation of the local fleet, extend the instruments made available by the commission to a greater number of new fish species and support the active participation of fishermen in the common fisheries policy. the most urgent need in the context of the conservation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions is, however, the management of fish stocks and the guarantee that only local fleets may fish in the exclusive economic zone, which the rapporteur also recommends to some extent in article 12. we need detailed information on the fish stocks in the outermost regions, especially the stocks of black swordfish.
in writing. - (pt) the this report is based on the fact that the common fisheries policy does not take due account of the special interests of the outermost regions. the rapporteur rightly believes that there is a conflict in many ways between the common fisheries policy, which is based on continental interests but which also applies to the outermost regions because they are an integral part of the european union, and the specific needs of the outermost regions, which are due to their specific geographical, economic and social conditions. it should be added that the reform of the common fisheries policy has not taken sufficient account of the needs of these regions. in this connection, a number of priorities must be identified, which are reflected in various measures that require our attention. first of all, we must make the instruments available to the commission cover a greater number of new fish species from the outermost regions and maintain aid for the construction of new vessels after 2006. secondly, there is an urgent need to increase scientific research into fisheries resources and, finally, to create fishing zones specifically for local fishermen. i voted in favour of the report because i want to support this consistent policy of responding to the needs of the outermost regions.
in writing. - (pt) i agree with this own-initiative report which raises the question of the impact of the common fisheries policy on the outermost regions of the european union. as the rapporteur rightly points out, and as article 299 (2) of the ec treaty also states, the outermost regions have special structural, social and economic conditions, due in particular to their topographical and climatic conditions, geographical location, small size, remoteness and economic dependence on a few products. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that we must systematically adapt the common fisheries policy to the needs of these outermost regions and that there is a great need to develop a coherent and structured policy in this area. financial support should be provided to these regions to compensate for the additional costs of marketing their fishery products and the funds made available should be better used. i also strongly support the idea of setting up a fisheries monitoring body in each of the outermost regions, both to monitor fisheries and to monitor the state of fisheries resources and the environment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) like the rapporteur, i welcome the adoption and implementation by the joint parliamentary assembly of new rules of procedure to streamline its activities. the establishment of three standing committees is of particular importance, as they can help to make the assembly a true parliamentary assembly. i think that the joint parliamentary assembly's emphasis on the rights of children - and especially child soldiers - deserves praise, as does the positive influence of its report on the subject in the council, which resulted in the adoption of strategic guidelines on the unacceptable use of children in armed conflict. i must, however, express my frustration at the inability of the joint parliamentary assembly to influence the situation in zimbabwe in a positive way. the joint parliamentary assembly must strive to be more effective in conflict prevention, to participate more actively in monitoring electoral and democratization processes and to promote the involvement of civil society in the work of the joint parliamentary assembly and its standing committees, in particular when the joint parliamentary assembly meets in acp countries. despite my reservations, which stem from the conviction that the joint parliamentary assembly could be more ambitious in these areas, i share the rapporteur's view that, on the whole, the development should be welcomed. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - (pt) i would like to congratulate mr bowis on an excellent report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control, which i support, particularly because it is designed to improve communication, coordination and cooperation with specific monitoring networks. the creation of a european centre for disease prevention and control will enable the eu to develop a long-term health plan, respond quickly to epidemics and respond effectively to any potential outbreaks or incidents without teams in the different member states doing the same work.
in writing. - (pt) the i believe that communicable diseases constitute a very serious threat to the health of citizens and i therefore support the commission's proposal to increase the resources for the effective control of such diseases, in particular by setting up a european centre for the prevention and control of diseases which could bring together epidemiologists, public health experts, microbiologists, logistics specialists and doctors. the eu should strive to improve cooperation and coordination between member states in the field of disease surveillance. the case of the atypical pneumonia virus (severe acute respiratory syndrome) has shown the need for this. it is essential to create synergies between national disease control centres, thereby ensuring epidemiological surveillance, establishing networks of laboratories, issuing scientific advice and establishing a body capable of ensuring an early warning and response system at european level, as well as providing the necessary technical assistance and information on health threats and preparedness for health emergencies. i agree with the proposal that this centre should have sufficient resources to cover unforeseen expenses. the centre will be set up within the community network on communicable diseases, which comprises selected national bodies responsible for communicable diseases in the member states. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) the the question of human rights is one we can never ignore, but that does not give us the right to be lecturers on human rights. yet it gives us sufficient moral authority to refuse to accept other people's criteria for deciding whether human rights conduct is good or bad. the fact that we are not voting for or against is far from indifferent. it is intended to show how important the issue of human rights is to us and how we do not accept the adoption of proposals based on market ideology and similar concepts, in which some countries are mentioned and others are not mentioned, in which there seem to be favourite sons and black sheep ... whereas there are no prodigal sons - god forbid! - in terms of competitiveness and productivity. we also refuse to accept the smoke screen on compensation, where the inclusion of some outweighs the reference to others. that explains our voices.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the recent accounting scandals, such as enron and parmalat, are further evidence of the consequences of the liberalisation of capital markets and the role of credit rating agencies, which gave these large transnational companies a clean bill of health in terms of creditworthiness, even though they did not disclose information about their activities. this could only happen because credit rating agencies are a product of the private sector, a self-regulating product of the market that creates mechanisms to assess the creditworthiness of entities that fund themselves by raising money from third parties, such as companies that go public on the stock exchange, and even states, in the case of public debt issuance. credit rating agencies exercise a great deal of power in financial markets, as credit ratings are a legal criterion for qualification for investment portfolios. moreover, the credit rating 'market' is highly concentrated and the largest institutions, two of which are headquartered in the usa - one of which gave parmalat a positive credit rating - operate as an oligarchy. as a self-regulatory instrument, credit rating agencies serve to further the liberalisation of capital markets. in order to be considered as a significant regulatory body, they must be regulated by public bodies within the framework of national legislation and case law. the report is capable of asking questions and diagnosing, but it does not prescribe medication, which serves only to promote these self-regulating instruments. the question is more political than technical, and politically speaking the final product justifies our vote against it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the rapporteur deserves credit for his efforts to solve the seemingly impossible task of giving a correct interpretation of words. the concept of 'cooperation' means supporting the development of enterprises in third countries, as suggested in the title of the first communication on which the report is based. it also means reform of state-owned enterprises, which are the basis of public services in these countries, and the need to assess all options, as suggested in the title of the second communication. however, such aid is held in contempt by the prevailing view of enterprises which can only be regulated by the market, which have adapted to the most widespread strategy of structural adjustment, where the prevailing solution is to wind down and privatize public services. the rapporteur questioned ideological concepts and asked questions from a point of view which was not 100% businesslike. it is essential that he referred to water supply and sanitation, to education and health services, which in his opinion should fall within the competence of the state and local authorities. the continued focus on privatisation by local investors and medium-sized companies on the proposal that all transnational companies should commit to investing at least 0.7% of their gross turnover or 5% of their net profits in new investments as counterbalancing projects in these countries each year is, in this context, borderline provocative. that is how this report was received by political forces which felt threatened by the presence of a rapporteur who put forward alternatives to improve what had seemed to be incurable.
in writing. - (pt) the there have been delays in the transposition of this directive into national law in some member states, illustrating the problems created by its implementation, particularly with regard to industry. as a result, the commission has launched a wide-ranging consultation of all those involved. we therefore know nothing about the actual transposition of the directive until the member states have submitted their national reports. although the directive has been in force since october 1999, in cases where the user intends to make changes to new or existing installations, a transitional period until october 2007 is granted, which requires that special aid be granted to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises and to farmers. the integrated prevention and control of pollution, which is the aim of this directive, can be achieved by a system of approval of installations, which we welcome. however, various factors must be taken into account and the most controversial parts of the directive must be clarified in order to arrive at acceptable solutions.
in writing. - (pt) the i voted for this proposal. since the gothenburg summit, the eu has proposed 'sustainable development', the only guarantee of human development, which considers respect for the environment to be an essential precondition for rapid progress. i therefore consider it extremely important that we proceed in a responsible manner - as in the matter we are considering today - towards the implementation and transposition of directives which set out this intention in legislation. concepts such as 'cross compliance' in the technical conditions of operating appropriations, the exchange of good practice and the definition of best available techniques are just some of the ways in which we can ensure the integrated prevention and control of pollution from a wide range of industrial and agricultural activities and achieve a higher level of environmental protection. the 1996 directive under consideration has established a system of authorization of new installations which obliges users to introduce pollution prevention measures. it also called for all plants to comply with the same rules as in 2007. i agree with the rapporteur when she stresses the importance of forcing the member states to submit the plans for assessment of transposition (also by 2007 at the latest) as soon as possible. therefore, a guidance document clarifying the definition of 'installation' and other key concepts would be very helpful... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in the case of the mediterranean, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other member states in the world market. the concern is mainly related to the reliability of the information, which is often questioned, creating undue tensions between controllers, researchers and fishermen. the following two questions are therefore of crucial importance: - first, fishermen should play an active role in the management of fishing effort and participate in the review of resource surveys in cooperation with inspectors and scientists. fishermen are the main beneficiaries of sustainable exploitation and recovery measures. it is therefore important that we establish appropriate bodies which allow for effective communication between the parties involved; - secondly, a comprehensive assessment of the socioeconomic impact of measures to restore resources or to reduce fishing effort should be carried out. the implementation of these measures, which are sometimes voluntary for fishermen, as is the case in portugal with sardines, requires compensation at public, national and community level. it is also necessary to increase eu support for research in the fisheries sector and to create the material and human conditions necessary to improve scientific advice.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) scientific research has become a very important instrument in the implementation of the common fisheries policy and is essential for the sustainable management of resources. the fishing quotas in the eu have had serious socioeconomic consequences. portugal has been particularly hard hit by these measures, particularly in the context of the conversion of activities and the dismantling of large parts of the national fishing fleet. i see the impact of fisheries management measures every day in the ports and at fish auctions in my region and i am furious that the commission continues to follow the same policy without evaluating the socioeconomic impact of implementing these measures. it is therefore important that these special arrangements, which are irrevocable, can be justified by scientific reports containing highly reliable information on the development of resources. the lack of objective information means that the current scientific reports give rise to conflicting interpretations in the different member states, which counteract the effectiveness of the measures to protect fishery resources. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of the rapporteur. i share his concern about the lack of scientific advice on fisheries and the scarcity of financial and human resources. i also support the need to strengthen the links between scientists and the fishing industry, which can make the final results more feasible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. eu measures based on scientific advice can have serious consequences for fishing communities. it is against this background that we see the importance of this issue and the need to improve the quality of this advice. the warning given by mr lage thus gives the community the opportunity to base the common fisheries policy on more accurate and timely advice, which should provide a stronger scientific basis than has been the case so far. it is unacceptable that we continue to see that 'the commission seems unwilling', as mr lage puts it, to take account of all the available scientific advice. this only increases the suspicion of a lack of objectivity in their decisions, which often do not take into account fishing communities that are already completely unprotected. my support for this report is therefore also an expression of my solidarity with the portuguese fishermen who have been so seriously affected by the commission's - and in particular commissioner fischler's - fisheries policy.
mr president, i begin by regretting that commissioner franz fischler is not here. it is truly incredible that this should happen in the face of such a major debate. farmers have the right to a decent income, and the guarantee of a fair price for their produce should be the basic premise of the common agricultural policy, in order to guarantee a standard of living adequate and equal to that of other sectors of activity in order to maintain agricultural activity throughout the european union. it is true that these are objectives enshrined in the common agricultural policy, but the mechanisms of the policy are in complete contradiction to the objectives, giving priority to a policy of reducing producer prices and to the external and internal liberalisation of agricultural markets. it is known that this policy is responsible for the disappearance of thousands of farms and jobs, and has promoted the concentration, intensification and verticalization of production, the centralisation of land and the increasing desertification of the rural world. it has also exacerbated the unfair distribution of agricultural aid between producers, production and countries. it is this model which, 12 years after the 1992 cap reform, still maintains the profound injustice of 20% of large farmers getting almost 80% of the support. it is recorded that in portugal 1% of large farmers received almost half of this aid, which we have always contested. the truth is that the current reform of the cap, with the dissociation of production aid from historical reference values, freezes these asymmetries. it was a lost opportunity not to move towards genuine modulation and the setting of limits on aid which would not be a mere transfer of funds to rural development but would serve to bridge the deep inequalities in the distribution of aid between farmers and countries. it should also be noted that the reduction in the selling prices of products and the increase in production costs, even with partial compensation for production aid, led to the disappearance of some 16% of agricultural holdings between 1995 and 2002 without consumers experiencing a reduction in food prices. in fact, these increased over the same period by about 11%, while the producer price index fell by more than 1%. the gradual deregulation of the cap market mechanisms is therefore a determining and worrying factor, in addition to the existing discrimination between continental and mediterranean production. given the volatility and specificity of the agricultural sector, effective mechanisms for market regulation and stabilisation of supply are indispensable to ensure agricultural incomes. it is also important, as the rapporteur calls for, to provide adequate external protection for the agricultural market and to set up community intervention mechanisms in the event of disasters affecting this sector. we also think that rural development needs to be strengthened, but that means an increase in the agricultural budget and not a freeze until 2013, as the copenhagen council decided. the strengthening of the agricultural budget would make it possible to guarantee compensatory payments to farmers in less favoured regions or to farmers with lower incomes. this is essential to maintain a multifunctional agriculture and good quality agricultural products.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a first recovery plan for cod, the commission has decided to move forward with a new initiative, this time on the northern fisheries. another one is already in sight covering the southern fishery. if sustainable management of aquatic resources fully justifies the protection of endangered species, fishing limitation measures should be duly justified by sound and up-to-date scientific advice and by integrating the pragmatic observations of fishermen. the gaps in scientific assessments are public knowledge. parliament had the opportunity to denounce them in its lage report this week. in this context, the souchet report is par excellence in calling attention to the need to update data on the basis of information provided by international bodies in the fisheries sector. such restrictions have very serious socioeconomic consequences for the seafarers, further restricting the already very limited fishing activity. the figures presented by the commission to limit the catch of the fish are such that their application would have dramatic social consequences, economically unsustainable and impossible to manage commercially. it seems obvious that the socioeconomic consequences should be assessed prior to the submission of any recovery plan. however, this was not the case. such measures are therefore acceptable only if they are strictly proportionate to the objectives of sustainable resource exploitation and also take into account their economic impact. large variations in total allowable catches, or tacs, can in some cases lead to the transfer of fishing activity from one species to another, thus indirectly causing further imbalances. parliament has already drawn the commission's attention on several occasions to the excessive rigidity of its recovery plans. therefore, a multiannual, flexible and gradual approach is undoubtedly more appropriate, allowing for a perfect adjustment of fishing effort to the state of resources rather than through rigid instruments with irreversible and socially dramatic consequences.
mr president, the presentation on the financial perspectives of the union which we have just heard from mr prodi allows us to make some brief reflections on the policy of economic and social cohesion. i do not want to say at this stage whether the financial perspectives proposed here by the commission represent a percentage gain for this or that cohesion country. that is not the perspective of my intervention. moreover, even in this perspective, it is important to stress that the countries which aspire to be beneficiaries of community funds from 2007 onwards have not yet won the most important of the challenges: that of overcoming their own structural backwardness and that of ensuring the economic and social cohesion of their populations. i therefore prefer to focus on the political significance of the commission's proposal in this area. by maintaining, or rather taking the risk of maintaining, the level of the union's financial resources by 2013 at 1.24% of the community's gross national income, the union is decisively betting on the european policy of solidarity as the only way of achieving homogeneous growth for the whole of the european union in the wake of the lisbon strategy. as the enlargement to ten more countries comes to fruition, it must be stressed that this is a primary objective to which the capacity of the beneficiary countries, both old and new, to carry out the indispensable structural reforms that solidarity with the others implies and presupposes must correspond. the position of parliament on this matter can therefore only be one of political support for the commission's proposal. in doing so, it is also helping to prevent the six richest member states of the union from adopting the same position, which has proposed that the community budget be reduced in future from 1.24% of european gross national income to 1%. we must therefore denounce those political leaders who speak of europe and solidarity and have national interests in their pockets.
in writing. this debate on the next financial perspective shows that there is a huge gap between promises and reality. we are facing a repetition, and worse, of agenda 2000, when what was needed was to increase funds taking account of the increased needs in terms of economic and social cohesion resulting from enlargement, to promote sustainable development, quality employment, the improvement of social conditions and the policy of cooperation and development with the least developed countries. what is happening is a clear demonstration of the unacceptability of the 'group of six' blackmail, which wanted to limit the community budget to 1% of gnp in an attempt to pave the way for a bad solution. this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the commission is now coming forward with an unacceptable proposal which does not respond to the needs and shortcomings of the enlargement countries, the growing social inequalities, the serious problems of unemployment, and the poverty and exclusion which are found in countries of the present european union, such as portugal. but it is not just a question of funding. the priorities and the revision of the objectives and the cohesion instruments and the budgetary structure to which they correspond are also important. the basic idea of competitiveness, the strategic reorientation around the lisbon agenda, the reorientation of foreign policy towards actions in the framework of the cfsp and the esdp, and of internal policies towards issues relating to migration, policing and border control, involve areas which may point to a dangerous path of european integration.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner diamantopoulou for her detailed and hopeful reply, since there has been a considerable increase in awareness of the ageing population and its consequences for the labour market and social policy in the european union. europe is facing a major challenge in this area. on the one hand, it faces the possibility of not being able to meet the lisbon council's objectives for employment, competitiveness and economic growth by 2010. on the other hand, health systems must simultaneously achieve the triple objective of access to health care for all, a high level of quality of the provision of such services and the financial viability of the systems. in addition, there is enormous pressure on member states' social security systems to meet and secure the future retirement pensions of an increasingly ageing population. it is time, then, to take action. we are aware that the complex implications of an ageing population coupled with low birth rates cannot be effectively addressed at the national level alone. this problem affects different community policies. this is why it is justified to develop european cooperation. the first question therefore is how the commission can support the member states in responding appropriately to the ageing population, both in terms of health systems and employment policies. the conclusions of the group of experts chaired by win kok point to several ways of maintaining economic growth and promoting active ageing. developing a legal and financial framework that encourages employers to hire and retain older workers, discourages early labour market exits and increases participation in lifelong learning could be key responses. in addition to the questions put by mr bushill-matthews, whom i congratulate on his question to the commission, i should like to address the question of women's work. increasing female participation in the labour market is also a response, but it requires concrete measures to promote the reconciliation of work and family life. would you ask the commission, and in particular commissioner anna diamantopoulou, whether it is prepared to develop the mechanisms necessary for the preparation of a framework directive establishing a minimum common denominator on the reconciliation of work and family life?
mr president, commissioner, we are coming to the end of the five-year period agreed in amsterdam. new provisions of the treaty of nice will come into force, and with enlargement we are seeing the territorial enlargement of the area of freedom, security and justice. it is therefore time to take stock, to take stock of the legislature, to take stock of this first five-year period. this annual debate has been directed in this direction and this will also be the direction of the resolution we are preparing for the end of march. this is the first message from the european parliament: we want this assessment to be made. not only for us, but also for the commission and the council. here, we kick off and publish our own evaluation in due course. we know that the commission is also preparing its balance sheet, which we are looking forward to. and we strongly recommend that the council do the same. we would like to ask the chairman of our committee, mr hernández mollar, who will no doubt refer to it again, who had the idea and proposed it in our debate the day before yesterday, to come forward and say that the council should start preparing seriously for a tampere ii, a new european summit devoted exclusively to the area of justice and home affairs, where this political assessment is made in a serious and transparent manner, without mental reservations, and a new realistic programme is defined for the medium term. this should be done already under the dutch presidency in the second half of this year or, at the latest, under the luxembourg presidency in the first half of 2005. it is this balance, a three-way balance in our institutional triangle, that we need first of all to proceed with political truth and new strategic alignment later. a dynamic balance sheet, a balance sheet which assesses the present situation and looks ahead to the future. i would like to put on record a positive appreciation of many of the developments that have been achieved over the past five years. the area of freedom, security and justice, let us be aware of this, is a new concept and a new way of developing the union. it is therefore important to welcome the progress that has been made with a clear and positive spirit. sometimes the understandable dissatisfaction of many is misunderstood in public opinion. the desire to go further is often verbalized and perceived with sounds of failure and generates feelings of crisis that do not correspond to reality. we must be aware that one of our greatest allies is public opinion, and to involve it more and more in these processes we must also feed public opinion with knowledge and confidence, rather than just frustration or utopia. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but also, when we ask the council for tampere ii, it is because we think tampere 1999 was positive, and for that i would like to congratulate you, mr commissioner antónio vitorino, because i know how much tampere owes you. there's still a lot to do, that's for sure! but the tampere methodology, so to speak, was in itself a positive, legislative milestone, because if tampere had not been there we would be much worse off and further behind today. in general terms, without going into the details of the motion for a resolution we are preparing or going back to the terms of the oral question, as members with different perspectives will certainly do, we can make an overall assessment ranging from very positive progress in judicial and civil cooperation to almost absolute stagnation in the area of police cooperation, passing through intermediate zones of good and bad, or only a little, progress and delay in the areas of asylum and immigration and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. there is also a very strong and growing concern about the guarantee of fundamental rights, along with the intensification of police and judicial cooperation, as well as growing calls for integration policies in the field of immigration. but above all there is a general message to be given to the council and to all governments, a message which emerges very clearly from these five years and their debates: if, in the areas of intergovernmental cooperation, while they exist, open and effective cooperation between governments and all the national authorities concerned does not advance at the pace that circumstances require, public opinion will directly press for the progressive, if not complete, com munitization of these areas of competence and responsibility, for reasons of security or freedom. that is, if governments use their powers not only to fine-tune, adjust, calibrate and integrate with the principle of subsidiarity, but to block and impede the development of this area of freedom, security and justice, they are following a very bad adviser. the fact is that if you want to save so much, you will eventually lose everything, because in few areas like this the pressure of citizenship is exercised and felt in such a sensitive and strong way. we cannot accept any budgetary rejections either, because, as president prodi has already pointed out, all the union's policies would suffer, starting with the area of freedom, security and justice. a penultimate point, mr president, on the dialogue with the national parliaments, a point already raised in the annual debate a year ago by the then rapporteur, mrs baroness sarah ludford. the experience of this five-year period shows that we in parliament must also review our working procedures, and that is why i have already proposed that in the next parliamentary term the committee on civil liberties and human rights should adopt a working model, the positive effects of which i have seen in the committee on constitutional affairs, and that we should invite representatives of national parliaments, of similar committees, to come and take part in our work and debates. i believe we should do so in three circumstances: first, once a semester on a regular basis; second, whenever we are preparing our annual debate; third, whenever a legislative matter is under debate which is either of particular strategic importance for the advancement of the whole area of freedom, security and justice, or which is bogged down in its decisionmaking process and where it is useful, in order to unblock it, to widen the transeuropean debate. finally, a strong general voluntary recommendation: that all that has been foreseen be fulfilled. we hope that all the delays in the schedules will be completed by the end of 2004. we think that when tampere ii is done, it would be good if tampere i was already fully implemented. it may be temporarily impossible, but that is the direction we are pointing so that there is no doubt.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the historical circumstances of this moment, so well pointed out by commissioner vitorino, justify this debate. it would be incomprehensible, in fact, if in the last debate on the evaluation of the area of freedom, security and justice during the term of office of this parliament we were to limit ourselves to a mere annual debate. it is therefore quite reasonable that we should take stock of the legislature and i congratulate mr josé ribeiro e castro on the excellent report he has presented to us, the general orientation of which we support. we must recognize that, although significant progress has been made in legislative measures, operational cooperation and institutional structures, some of the progress achieved has not been able to meet the deadlines set in tampere and, what is worse, other objectives already set have not yet been achieved. i would like to highlight ten points where concrete action is urgently needed: firstly, that legislation on data protection be adopted under the third pillar, giving guarantees equivalent to those of directive 95/46/ec under the first pillar; secondly, that a common policy for the integrated management of the external borders of the member states be established, with community funding; thirdly, that the council approve the two proposals for directives which are still missing in order to complete the first phase of the common european asylum system; fourthly, that the council approve the proposals which are still blocked and which aim at establishing a common policy on immigration; fifthly, that we be given a concrete proposal on the development of the visa information system (vis); sixthly, that we be given a proposal for a framework decision on the criminal guarantees in eu criminal proceedings for suspects and accused persons; seventhly, since the communityisation of the schengen acquis has allowed for greater coordination between the police and judicial services of the member states in their fight against organised crime, it is now essential to move as quickly as possible towards the creation of the new sis ii; eighthly, to promote the development of police cooperation through a legal procedure which is less complex and time-consuming, as commissioner vitorino has already pointed out, than the europol convention, with legal and democratic control at union level; ninthly, to continue to develop the stabilisation and association agreements with the western balkan states in the field of the fight against organised crime, the judiciary, the fight against drugs, border management and immigration; and, lastly, to monitor the application of the community acquis in the enlarged countries, especially in the area of internal and external justice, as well as the application of the relevant schengen acquis and border control mechanisms. i welcome the fact that the irish presidency has made the development of this area its top priority in its work programme and i hope that we can develop very fruitful interinstitutional cooperation. i recognize that the task we have set ourselves is enormous and very ambitious, but if we do not increase the pace and the decision-making capacity of the council, we will end these five years far short of the objectives set out in tampere. i hope that by the end of 2004 all the measures which are still overdue and which are included in the objectives and timetables already set will have been adopted. finally, mr president, it is regrettable that some member states have sent a letter to the commission requesting a significant reduction in the community budget in the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. as has already been pointed out by president prodi, among other essential areas, particularly in the context of economic and social cohesion, this would prevent the commission from doing its work in the area of justice and home affairs.
mr president, in this context, the council can only be held responsible for the delay in adopting fundamental measures in the areas of asylum and immigration. we are reminded of the proposal for a directive on the granting of refugee status, which should have been adopted before the end of 2003, but which unfortunately is not an isolated case. the general objective of creating conditions for the orderly entry into the european union of those who lack international protection is also mentioned, but the truth is that another important directive on the procedures to be applied by the member states for the granting of refugee status has been shelved. the justice and home affairs council of 27 and 28 november gave up the search for political agreement on these two key elements for the first phase of harmonisation of the common asylum system, deciding to postpone their adoption until the calendar year of 2004. fortunately, not everything is idle and deadlocked. we must commend the commission's attitude and the commitment of commissioner vitorino, as demonstrated in the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme of technical and financial assistance to third countries in the field of migration and asylum, an instrument which will enable us to meet the needs felt by these countries in their efforts to ensure better management of migration flows. we must also not forget that the european convention has provided, in its draft constitution, for a genuine common european asylum system and an immigration policy, which will make it possible to abandon the current system of minimum rules in which the member states still retain a large part of their national systems. unfortunately, even this fundamental historical space is compromised, so that we can only conclude that 2003 was a year of keen awareness of the needs, of the provision of the appropriate means, matters in which the commission and parliament did what was required of them, but it was also the time of hypocrisy, of hesitations, of the impasses that national strategies and ideological prejudices impose on the council's decisionmaking capacity.
mr president, i asked to speak before minister mcdowell spoke on behalf of the council because i wanted to ask you to clarify a strong theme of today's debate, which is this idea that the next legislature will also be opened by a tampere ii. and so, for a reaction, a balance on the part of the council. i understand from your reply that you also have a positive view of this suggestion, which the commissioner immediately agreed to. i agree with the presidency that the priority of the irish presidency until the end of the six months is to get as much of the outstanding issues and topics as possible completed. i agree with that and support this clear priority, but it would also be important for the presidency and the council to be able to give a signal to the next presidency, that is to say the luxembourg presidency, so that this tampere ii can take place. and so i would like to know, as far as possible, the most precise thought of minister mcdowell.
in writing. - (pt) the this report deals with the current crisis in agricultural incomes in a number of member states. the crucial question is whether the cap is meeting the objectives which it has set out in the treaty in terms of ensuring fair living conditions for farmers and the agricultural community. the fact is that although the income of farmers as a whole increased by 7% between 1995 and 2002, this result was achieved as a result of a reduction in the number of holdings of 18%. we know the cost to portuguese farmers of having to abandon or change the profession they have always practised. the problem is also that agriculture is lagging behind other economic sectors. the aggregate data also conceal large differences, since 20% of farms receive 73% of agricultural aid. these holdings cover only 59% of the total area and employ only 25% of the agricultural workforce. this is a politically and socially unacceptable situation, which nevertheless explains the behaviour of certain countries, which want to preserve their privileges in the common agricultural policy. we therefore support the position expressed in the report in the recommendations on the newly strengthened second pillar of the common agricultural policy, which is to promote rural development. (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the number of holdings under the cap has decreased considerably (15.7% from 1995 to 2002), which has meant that the average income of farmers has increased in the eu as a whole. the increase in income has thus been conditional on a reduction in the number of holdings and an increase in their size. more diversified activity and differentiation have also helped to maintain farmers' incomes. if we look at the real situation in agriculture in the various member states, we find that farmers very often depend on public support and on fluctuating prices and markets, which gives them a feeling of uncertainty resulting in a low level of investment in both crop modernisation and diversification. the increase in the concentration of farms, if left unchecked, will lead to the depopulation of rural areas, which will also endanger all the (not always quantifiable) concomitant phenomena which today owe their existence to agriculture. the objectives of 'competitiveness' and 'multifunctionality' must be reconciled, so that farmers are guaranteed a certain minimum of security and can be confident that they can maintain acceptable living conditions and stable incomes, and so that an economically sustainable farming community is created throughout the eu that can maintain the greatest possible number of farms and jobs. i vote for it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the effects of the crisis. it is a socioeconomic and cultural activity of great importance, which must ensure high quality agricultural products. the food and animal health crises that have occurred in the eu show that the current agricultural model based on the cap is not sustainable. it is a model which leads to intensification of production, which is profoundly incompatible with a multifunctional agriculture. the development of a sustainable agricultural culture therefore requires the development, implementation and financing of an agricultural research culture which makes it possible to identify the importance of agriculture for both the development and functioning of rural areas and for high-quality nutrition. the mere 2% of the sixth framework programme's resources are not enough to finance research into, for example, more sustainable agricultural production, food quality and safety, rural income alternatives (non-food production), the gender dimension, new forms of market regulation and improved organic farming methods. other areas where research is needed are in relation to gmo crops and biotechnology, not least the coexistence of gmo crops with conventional and organic crops, the possible risks of releasing these crops into the environment and introducing them into the food chain.
in writing. - (pt) the this report shows that the funding for agricultural research should be increased in the light of the trend towards multifunctionality, greater emphasis on rural development and the need to make certain specialised forms of agriculture, such as organic production, more market-oriented. the rapporteur therefore recommends that the funds of the sixth research framework programme be used to support projects and initiatives in the field of agriculture and rural development, given the considerable potential in areas such as food science and the development of products to promote local production and the economy. we fully agree that the increasing consumer demands in terms of traceability, hygiene control, ingredient quality, etc., require significant investment to improve quality levels and maintain competitiveness. since such investments are not easily made in small and medium-sized enterprises, conditions must be created for them to be made available in industry as such or at regional or national level through public funds. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (pt) the i agree with the rapporteur that the funds for agricultural research should be increased. there is considerable potential in areas such as food science and product development to promote local production and economy which has not been sufficiently exploited. in the light of the latest developments in this sector, for example towards multi-functionality, i believe that more emphasis should be placed on the development of rural areas, to which the use of the funds of the sixth research framework programme can contribute. i believe that the growing consumer demands, which i welcome and encourage, should be fully taken into account by the european institutions. they should help to make it increasingly possible to follow an agricultural product from farm to fork and to make certain specialised forms of agriculture, such as organic production, more market-oriented. in terms of traceability, hygiene control and ingredient quality, significant investments are needed to improve quality levels and maintain competitiveness. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the the criticism of the commission's proposal in the report is fully justified, not least because of the time criterion used in defining the concept of 'service' and the possibility of avoiding the payment of social security contributions. in portugal, the regulation and limitation of access to certain professions is based on article 47 of the constitution. the restriction can only be made by legislation passed by the national assembly and only if other fundamental rights - life, health, safety of persons and property - justify it and always taking into account proportionality, necessity and expediency. the proposal to consolidate all the systems for the recognition of professional qualifications in a single act, taking into account the specific circumstances of doctors, veterinarians, nurses, midwives, architects and dentists, is acceptable as it concerns the lives, health and safety of persons and property. it is not acceptable, however, that other professions which are essential to the health and safety of workers, such as health and safety advisers, biologists, senior health technicians, diagnostic technicians and therapists, should not be covered. since the proposed directive does not explicitly state that the recognition of professional qualifications requires that the training must ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) i have supported this report on a commission proposal which aims to develop the internal market for the motor vehicle industry by extending the principles and procedures of community typeapproval, which at present apply only to passenger cars, to all motor vehicles. the progress made in the automobile industry and the forthcoming enlargement thus justify the introduction of a common compulsory system of approval of motor vehicles which could replace the existing national systems. it will bring benefits to the european automotive industry, as it can reduce production costs, facilitate access to and promote expansion opportunities on the european market, and have positive effects on road safety and environmental protection. i particularly agree with the rapporteur when he points out that the advantages which small and mediumsized enterprises could have obtained under this scheme are, however, completely overridden by the conditions imposed in order to make use of it. the ceiling on annual production is set far too low and may mean that smes are not incentivised to produce and are deprived of their potential for development and technological innovation. the transitional periods which should precede the entry into force of the scheme should also be extended to take account of the adaptations which producers and all others will face with the new procedures. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) the commission considers that the northern hake stock is threatened and has therefore presented a recovery plan which involves a sharp reduction in catches and fishing effort. the rapporteur finds this intervention disproportionate and proposes instead a management plan. both justify their position with scientific studies, which gives rise to four essential questions:- first, the recovery plans introduced by the 2002 revision of the common fisheries policy - regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 - as a measure to conserve fish stocks must be assessed. - secondly, fishermen must be involved in the assessment of stocks, as the european parliament has also requested in its opinion on the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy, where it is regrettable that they have not been seriously involved in the assessment of the northern hake. - thirdly, measures to restore stocks, which involve stopping fishing and reducing catches and fishing effort, must be assessed for their socioeconomic impact and financial compensation must be guaranteed to those affected, especially fishermen, since the sustainability of resources is a vital objective for fisheries and fishermen. - fourthly, measures must be proportionate to the objective sought, which requires not only an assessment of the extent to which the measures are effective but also an assessment of the extent to which they are effective. (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) we voted against this report because unfortunately the ppe, eldr and uen group have adopted proposals which substantially amend the text adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs. as a result of the proposals and votes of these groups, very important parts have been removed from the final text, including in particular:- the desire for transitional solutions to avoid a substantial number of current and new member states, in addition to the united kingdom, using the opt-out option, which in practice undermines the essence of the directive,- the request to the commission to immediately initiate infringement proceedings against the united kingdom government in the light of the recognition in the commission's communication of widespread and systematic abuse of the directive,- the reference to the lisbon agenda setting an employment rate target of 60% for women by 2010, which will no longer be achievable if longer working hours are maintained. on the other hand, our proposals have not been adopted, including those which involved a gradual reduction in working time and those which referred to other models of organization of working time in the health sector and other industries with similar call-outs to protect the rights of employees with regard to maximum working time.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the present report deals with the revision of the directive on the organization of working time, namely the reference periods and the exception clause, better known as the opt-out clause. in 1993, the united kingdom negotiated an opt-out clause allowing specific member states not to apply the maximum weekly working time of 48 hours under certain conditions. although this provision is not exclusive to the united kingdom, it is most frequently applied there. however, the 1993 directive sets a maximum working week of 48 hours, providing basic protection for most workers, with managers being the main exception. despite opposition, the adoption of various amendments has limited the rapporteur's far-reaching proposals, which is why i voted in favour.
mr president, the parmalat financial scandal is a byproduct of the financialization of the economy, an excessive financialization because production and exchange to satisfy the material needs of the population are drowning in the speculative flows of high international finance, while the informal economy flourishes and the criminalization of the economy, where trafficking is becoming increasingly important to the detriment of economic and social development. the scandal is also an example of the harmful effects of deregulation of markets and the free movement of capital. parmalat has used a whole range of instruments: front companies in tax havens, the benefits of special offshore regulation, hedge funds, fake invoices and documents. this covered financial loopholes and misstatements, using complex structures and involving many subsidiaries to carry out transactions in the field of bonds and derivatives, with the support of international banks, the cover-up of international audit firms and the positive assessment of credit rating agencies. and so thousands of jobs were put at risk in the more than thirty countries in which parmalat operated and enormous problems were caused for thousands of milk producers who were dependent on it. but this is not an isolated case. in recent years alone, a number of financial scandals have occurred at global level: enron, world.com, merck in the united states; crédit lyonnais, vivendi, ahold, kirch, marconi, equitable life in the member states of the european union, with profound negative repercussions on society and the economic fabric. as a matter of economic model, greater rigour and control is needed in derivative financial instruments, replacing mechanisms which are the product of and aim at speculation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: but above all, the real revaluation of production and labour is indispensable and urgent. however important the problems of the shareholders may be, and they are, priority must be given to protecting employment and safeguarding the rights of workers, guaranteeing their right to information, consultation and participation and, in this particular case, considering compensation for the milk producers concerned. i would stress the negative contribution of the european union to financialisation and, in particular, to the action plan for financial services, by encouraging the deregulation and liberalisation of capital markets and their integration accompanied by the dismantling of prudential rules and control mechanisms. i am concerned by the commissioner's statement that hasty and ill-conceived legislation could aggravate rather than solve regulatory problems illustrated by major cases such as enron and parmalat. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i was not satisfied with your answer either because i have heard reports from relatives of cuban citizens who are unjustly detained in prisons in the united states of america and are prevented from having any visits. in one case, the account of a mother who was completely denied visitation with her son, and in another, that of the wife of one of these detainees who also told me about the ban on visiting her husband in american prisons. this is a violation of all human rights principles, as is well known, and so i ask you once again to inform me of the measures that should be taken by the council to intervene in defence of the rights of this mother and this wife so that they can visit their relatives who are being held in this absolutely unjust way in the prisons of the united states of america.
it is right to stress, mr president, that both parliament, the commission and the council reacted swiftly and effectively to the tragic accidents of the erika and prestige oil tankers off the european coast and adopted important legislation, in the context of which i would like to highlight the creation of the european maritime safety agency, whose headquarters will be in lisbon, which i naturally welcome. it is also worth noting that our parliament has set up a temporary committee to improve safety at sea, whose report we await with interest and expectation. the fact that we are here today to discuss the subject again, particularly in the light of the extension of the agency's powers, shows that, contrary to what often happens, the effect of time and the media pressure of events have not exhausted our capacity for political intervention and monitoring of this matter. let us now consider our position on the areas in which the commission proposes to extend the agency's powers of intervention. firstly, the fight against marine pollution. we have always maintained that coordination and cooperation between states must take place in the event of an accident. practice has shown that no state can combat a large-scale oil spill by its own means. there are therefore obvious advantages in coordinated community action in this area and the agency can play an important role. the new role of the commission in combating accidents is, for us portuguese, the added value of the proposal as a coastal state with a long maritime perimeter and a confluence of numerous routes. however, it is necessary to define with the greatest degree of precision the mode of operational intervention of the agency, in particular as regards the provision of special ships to be made available to the member states affected by pollution and the chartering regime for them. secondly, there are no objections to the training of seafarers, in particular as regards the way in which the agency participates in the procedures for the recognition of seafarers' certificates by third countries. thirdly, the question of the agency's action in the field of security is the most difficult, because the commission's initial proposal seems to conflict with the powers of the states in matters of internal security and the fight against terrorism. however, the amendments proposed by our colleague the rapporteur and approved by the committee on transport have not only confined the agency's activities to clearly defined areas, which are linked to the new community competences resulting from the directive on the safety of ships and port facilities, but have also safeguarded the complementary nature of its activities with regard to the prerogatives of the coastal states. in short, we support the balanced approach proposed by the rapporteur, and we take the opportunity to congratulate him on his excellent contribution to improving safety at sea and preventing marine pollution. we must never forget that when accidents happen, the damage and the loss know no bounds.
mr president, it is well known that it was in the wake of the prestige disaster that the commission decided to propose the amendment of the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency, citing the lack of coordination between the actions of the member states. it is true that this shipwreck and the human, environmental and economic tragedy it has caused in the affected areas, especially in galicia, have shown that more effective intervention and more coordinated action between the member states is needed, but the truth is that this cannot and should not serve to extend the scope of the agency's intervention to areas which are clearly the responsibility of each member state, which would lead to a duplication of costs or the discharge of responsibility from the countries, much less raise questions of sovereignty, which would create conflicts of competence. the question is therefore how far the powers of this agency can and should be extended - i welcome its being established in portugal and i hope it will be as soon as possible, so it would be good to hear the commissioner speak on this subject - and how far these powers should not call into question the principle of subsidiarity. the rapporteur argues that the work of the agency in combating pollution should be only technical and scientific support and not replace the member states in their responsibilities, intervening with additional means when requested to do so by the government concerned, always under whose authority the clean-up operations would be directed. this is a position which seems to me to be correct, given that no state can combat a large-scale oil spill by its own means. the agency can provide some support here, but it cannot replace the member states, it cannot and should not be the agency that intervenes in the fight against terrorist acts, decentralising the responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of the member states' security systems on ships and port facilities. its installation can contribute to enhancing maritime safety by working in collaboration with national authorities and in support of the various member states, as an added value in the technical and scientific field and not as a supranational entity and oversight of safety or even fishing activities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the awakening of conscience caused by the recent maritime accidents on european coasts is reflected, at the right time, in the need for action on the part of all those responsible, in order to prevent such accidents and to combat them effectively and without hesitation. the most important action is the creation of the coordinating structure for these activities, and that is the european maritime safety agency with clear and visible objectives to achieve results in terms of efficiency and responsibility. the objective of preventing and combating marine pollution accidents is the first and therefore the focus of everyone's attention. we must protect the resources of the sea, the largest space on the planet, the source of future life. we must hold those who are unavoidably at sea to account, both in view of the state of the ships that do so all the time, and the people who work on them and those who trust them on land. the commission has therefore taken on board the absolute need for control and safety of the routes and the inevitable inspection of ships, reinforcing the existing model both in terms of requirements and the frequency of inspections. although not a priority at this stage for the agency, i must say that the growing concern about the threat of terrorist attacks targeting ships and port facilities has already led to the adoption of special international measures and instruments. this concern can be clearly and responsibly addressed in the agency's regulations, which will be another objective of action, which will help to raise the level of confidence of staff and all those responsible in all member states. no one can really guarantee full effectiveness, but constant care and attention, together with the necessary detection, correction and information equipment, will certainly reduce the chances of success. i also stress the importance of systematic and rigorous evaluation of measures to prevent and combat marine pollution. only by understanding how and why things are done and by holding those involved to account can we, in my view, ensure that each step we take is safer and more responsible than the one before it. a culture of accountability assessment has to be consistently ensured, whoever is the target of the consequences of that assessment. the polluter pays principle is indispensable and will surely correct any negligence which cannot and should not be excused. i consider it of the utmost importance to include training for seafarers - technical and scientific training in maritime safety - as well as appropriate certification. the agency's collaboration with member states, in addition to complementing their response capacities, aims to oblige each member state to be sufficiently equipped in these matters to be able to respond to any accident near its coast. i agree that the european maritime safety agency should integrate highly qualified and experienced human resources in maritime safety, which ensures that we have a quality that is geared to these objectives. as a portuguese woman with a vocation for the sea, i believe that the european maritime safety agency will always be a challenge for ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to say that i agree with this report and i also share the congratulations that have just been addressed to our rapporteur, mr emmanouil mastorakis. but i would like to say to the commissioner, very bluntly, 'do not be afraid to be ambitious'. it is proven, it is very clear that this is a problem of a european dimension. it is not just the prestige or the erika, it is the thousands of ships that pollute our waters every year in unacceptable environmental attacks which the member states have proved incapable of dealing with. we need a european dimension, we need a european coast guard. i do not see any extra tasks here, because these tasks can only be carried out effectively if they are carried out globally. and if there is a problem here, it is the timidity of the proposals. never your ambition. commissioner, you must be ambitious! europeans need ambition, they need these problems to be addressed, they need the european maritime safety agency to tell them when this scandal of permanent marine pollution will end, when we will have different rules in maritime traffic. that's what we need! and in the face of that responsibility, whatever is necessary must be given, must be asked of this house. and we cannot give in to these conservative logics which spend their lives thinking in terms of the relative power of the member states and forget what is in the interests of our citizens.
in writing. - (pt) in view of the important objectives of the media programme, we support the report and the extension until 2006 requested by the commission. however, like the rapporteur, we regret that there is still no final evaluation report on the implementation of the programme. we expect that one will be tabled before parliament as soon as possible. a comprehensive and in-depth debate on european audiovisual policy is absolutely essential before decisions are taken on the basis of a future programme, involving not only the entire audiovisual sector - operators, networks and trade associations - but also the sector's employees and representatives of the public.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as you know, the media plus and media training programmes are one of the pillars of european audiovisual policy. these programmes provide community support primarily to the audiovisual sector and replace the media i and media ii programmes launched in 1991 and 1996 respectively. the experience gained from previous programmes is a valuable starting point for improvements to the way the current media programmes operate. media training is aimed in particular at supporting learning in the application of new technology, economic, business and financial management, techniques for financing the production and distribution of audiovisual programmes, for the development of new audiovisual programmes and for the writing of audio books and storytelling. like the committee responsible, i welcome the commission's plans to ensure the continuity of the operators and professionals involved in the media training programme in 2006, which will therefore be extended without structural changes until 31 december 2006 with an increased budget. it is precisely because i am encouraged by the unanimous majority that has adopted the proposals to launch a training programme for professionals in the european audiovisual programme industry that i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i am in favour of the extension of the tasks of a european maritime safety agency to include the fight against marine pollution. the benefits of a coordinated eu response are considerable and the agency can play a crucial role in coordinating efforts to make oil spill clean-up more effective, - i agree that the agency should have the tasks relating to maritime security which result from the new competence conferred on the community by the member states under the regulation on the 'improvement of the security of ships and port facilities'.
- in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the agency was adopted by the european parliament and the council on 27 june 2002 and entered into force following its publication in the official journal of the european communities in august of that year. the main task of the new body will be to provide technical and scientific assistance to the member states and the commission to help them apply correctly community legislation on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships and to monitor the implementation of this legislation. in the light of the recent disasters caused by marine pollution, the commission therefore proposes to extend the agency's powers so that it can address certain problems in maritime safety with appropriate means. in particular, it is intended to give the agency additional tasks to support the commission's efforts to combat terrorist attacks against ships and port facilities, to train seafarers and to combat marine pollution, the latter of which is covered by a legal framework for cooperation on marine pollution and an eu civil protection regime to promote closer cooperation in emergency situations. i support this proposal, which has been clearly improved by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism.
in writing. - (pt) we support the report by mr mastorakis without reservation. a european maritime safety agency should be given the powers and means to prevent and combat pollution from ships and other vessels. we must ensure that the agency is located in portugal and that, from a decentralization point of view, which can counteract the lisbon-centred distortion of portugal, it has its seat or a branch established in sagres, on the algarve coast, in southern europe.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) sustainable development of the transport sector requires an integrated approach that takes full advantage of the opportunities available. against this background, the commission highlights the difficulties faced by users of the current intermodal loading units - i.e. containers and swap bodies normally used for transport - ranging from differences in how they are handled and fastened to questions of safety and methods of control. the proposal recommends the introduction of a voluntary european intermodal loading unit, combining the advantages of containers with those of bills of exchange, which can be used in all four modes of transport (rail, road, sea and inland waterway). this measure will allow the transport sector to choose freely the alternative proposed by the commission which will bring clear advantages. i support the approach adopted to introduce the new system - which the member states are still not obliged to use - by granting financial or other forms of aid to projects which clearly demonstrate the intentions of using the european intermodal freight unit. i am voting in favour because of the benefits i believe the transport industry will derive from this.
in writing. - (pt) we voted in favour of this recommendation because we believe that the new supplementary fund will go a long way towards ensuring full and rapid compensation for the victims of future oil spills. the proposal is linked to the council decision authorising the member states to sign, ratify or accede to the 2003 protocol to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage, 1992, in the interest of the european community. the protocol on the supplementary fund of the international maritime organisation (imo) increases the financial resources available for compensation to victims of oil pollution. member states should sign this protocol within a reasonable time and, as far as possible, before 30 june 2004. the decision was taken following the prestige accident in november 2002, when the council took a more forceful stance on the need for an additional compensation scheme and on 21 march 2003 called on member states 'to work towards an increase of the current ceiling for compensation to victims of pollution, including environmental damage, to eur 1 billion by the next imo-led diplomatic conference in may'. on 16 may 2003, the imo adopted a new protocol to the existing conventions on liability for oil pollution. this protocol establishes a supplementary fund which fixes the ceiling for compensation ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - i thank mr josé maría gil-robles for his recommendation to establish an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage. i share his view that the replacement ceilings do not provide adequate protection for potential victims of a major oil spill. the purpose of the supplementary fund is to provide compensation to any person who has suffered damage as a result of oil pollution, where the claim in question is considered justified and the injured party has not been able to obtain full and adequate compensation under the 1992 fund convention. i would like to take this opportunity to say that higher compensation ceilings should not be used as an excuse to relax prevention.
in the light of the recent developments in the oil sector, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal for a decision to include the following areas: by significantly increasing the compensation ceilings set by the existing international regime, the supplementary fund protocol fills one of the largest gaps in international law on liability for oil spills. the new supplementary fund will go a long way towards ensuring full and prompt compensation for the victims of future oil spills, thereby addressing situations such as erika and prestige. as certain parts of the protocol on the supplementary fund fall within the exclusive competence of the community, it must authorise the member states to accede to the protocol, which will thereby enter into force, which we of course support by voting in favour of.
in writing. - (pt) the the draft decision, on which parliament is to deliver its opinion, authorises member states to accede to the protocol on the international maritime organisation (imo) supplementary fund, which increases the financial resources available for compensation to victims of oil pollution. member states are invited to accede to the protocol as soon as possible. the protocol to the 1992 international convention establishes an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage to ensure adequate, prompt and effective compensation for victims of oil spills from tankers. by significantly increasing the compensation ceilings set by the existing international regime, the supplementary fund protocol fills one of the largest gaps in international legislation on oil spill liability, with the compensation ceiling set by the supplementary fund. the new fund will probably have considerably fewer members than the 1992 fund, as several states which have joined the 1992 scheme believe that there is no need for this additional protection at present, but i believe that the new supplementary fund will help to ensure full and rapid compensation for the victims of future oil spills. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) it is well known that the steel sector is in an extremely difficult situation and that there is no overall european plan for its recovery, the consequences of which have also been felt in portugal. we therefore vote in favour of maintaining a centre of high-tech production in solidarity with the workers, the trade unions and the people of terni. we regret once again that there has been no support for the proposal of our group to tighten up the conditions for the relocation of companies, which is also a serious problem in portugal. we must therefore insist that the commission proposes legislation which provides adequate protection for employees against the unacceptable consequences of company relocations, which contains social provisions to safeguard employment and the livelihood of the families concerned, and which obliges companies to retrain the workforce. a different policy must also be adopted in the case of financial aid to multinational enterprises, with aid being repaid if the enterprises do not assume the necessary social responsibility.
in writing. - (pt) i support this report on the approximation of the civil procedure rules of the member states, which aims to harmonize all private international law in the field of contractual obligations. i agree with the rapporteur that immediate application of the provisions in question in all member states is preferable to the uncertainties which would arise in the implementation of a directive, and that future legislation in this area should therefore take the form of a regulation. i also agree with the rapporteur when he points out, with regard to the proposal for a payment order, that the approximation of the civil procedure rules of the member states cannot be achieved without a standardisation of the rules of the member states for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents, and that alternative dispute resolution methods, simplified evidence and limited possibilities of appeal should be used in the procedure for small claims. i welcome the rapporteur's suggestions not to give the court too wide a range of powers. i voted yes.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the events in afghanistan have been a cause of grave concern for several years, and the world must not forget the afghan people who continue to suffer the consequences of wars imposed on them by powers which have placed their own economic and geostrategic interests above the well-being of the people. the taliban regime was terrible, but the war that the us government has launched under the guise of fighting terrorism has been no less terrible. after more than two years, it is clear that the war has neither solved the fundamental problems of the afghan people nor helped to advance the process of democratization in the country. the report thus notes that 'the continuing deterioration of the security situation is the greatest threat to the afghan people and to the ability of afghan and international ngos to support reconstruction, rehabilitation and development initiatives and the peace process in general'. the events in afghanistan, as in iraq, are clear proof of the fallacy of resorting to war as a solution to anything. the bush administration should be condemned for the unacceptable situation in which these countries find themselves and for the immense suffering which has afflicted most of their populations.
in writing. - (pt) the i support this report on the situation in afghanistan. the lack of security and the slow pace of reconstruction have been a feature of the country in recent times, which calls for the eu to take action. as regards the situation of women in afghanistan, i agree with the rapporteur that it is certainly a cause for concern. the eu must make the improvement of women's conditions a priority for the nation, but it should be stressed that progress has been made, such as the ratification by the afghan transitional government (ata) of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the specific reference to equal treatment for men and women in the new constitution adopted on 4 january. while these are important steps forward, they are not enough, because the ata must also continuously, publicly and unequivocally condemn all violence against women and children. i agree with the rapporteur that the resources allocated to the ata in the community budget must be increased, also because a smaller allocation could be interpreted as a failure to recognise the progress made and would weaken the incentive to continue reconstruction. the idea of setting up a european agency for reconstruction in afghanistan, similar to the one in kosovo, should be considered.
mr president, we have already expressed our disagreement with the commission's strategy on services of general interest on several occasions. it is not acceptable that it continues to intervene in this area, undermining the existence of quality public services that are essential to combating poverty, ensuring social inclusion and high standards of living for the entire population. what is urgent, as we have proposed on several occasions, is a moratorium on liberalization and a thorough analysis of the consequences of what has already been achieved in the various economic and social sectors, particularly in terms of employment, the quality of the service provided, the degree of user satisfaction, the universality of the service provided and the further democratization of the operation of services and their management. until then, the commission should not pursue measures which may in practice mean further attacks on the existence and functioning of quality public services in the various countries of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to say that i share the view that the market and free competition are important values. but here, as in many other areas, we should not be fundamentalists, we should not be fanatics or even, if you will, ayahuasca, which is the worst thing that can happen, as, in fact, we will see in the next debate on iran. and that is exactly what the commission is becoming, commissioner, in more and more areas. let me give you an example, which is the language of the country where cabotage services are operated: the commission has just initiated proceedings against greece for requiring that those who work on cabotage vessels on its islands speak greek. this is nonsense, commissioner! first of all, i would remind you that very recently, just a few years ago, many dozens of portuguese seamen lost their jobs on norwegian shipping lines - which must also comply with the rules of free competition - precisely because they did not speak norwegian. and as much as it hurt, i had to accept the reason that was given, which was safety. it is an absolutely essential safety requirement that crews of ships on duty, particularly on islands, should be able to speak the language of the country. and when the commission brings this case against the greek islands, which is similar to cases it has already brought in other parts of europe, it is showing an absolutely fanatical attitude, it is showing that it does not understand how far free competition should go and where safety and other values should begin, which are also extremely important. it is this balance, this sense of reasonableness that is lacking in the commission and this is what this commission must in fact change profoundly.
mr president, it seems to me that it is clear to everyone that the illusion of democracy in iran is dead and that only by a complete change in the political system can we ever see democracy reborn. i would like to join my colleague, ulla sandbæk, in calling for dialogue not with the religious hierarchy, with those responsible for the criminal regime that oppresses iran, but with the opposition, and for the mujahideen currently in iraq to be removed from the list of terrorists and for their extradition to iran to be prevented. it is through dialogue with those who really want democracy, with the secular forces, that we can see a different and democratic situation in this important country, as has already been assumed by everyone here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on monday the commission authorized the use of three port wine names, namely tawny, ruby and vintage, by non-european wine producers, in particular from south africa, australia and the united states. this commission decision is causing a stir in the port wine region, the oldest wine region in europe, and will seriously damage the legitimate interests of port wine producers. this is a regrettable decision, and we strongly protest against it. it's not just about the economy. while highly sensitive, it's also a cultural issue: the european union should respect the defence of port wine, its authenticity and the trademarks it has managed to acquire.
in writing. the epa for 2005 is part of the proposal for the financial perspective 2007-2013 and is based on the draft 'european constitution', continuing the neoliberal, federalist and militarist evolution. the main axes put competitiveness ahead of cohesion, security ahead of citizenship and 'external responsibilities' - civil and military - ahead of cooperation, in an increasingly restrictive financial context, with the expectation of further reduction in the budgetary burden and continuation of the policy of cuts and redistribution of expenditure to finance these priorities. the first - economic - axis insists on compliance with the objectives of the 'lisbon strategy', particularly when it advances with the (liberalisation) services directive, with proposals to complete the integration of financial services markets, with the 'defence market' and the creation of a 'research' area aimed at commercialising scientific and technical progress. the second axis - security - is advancing by creating a police and border management to control migration flows in accordance with the interests of big business, reinforcing the security trend in the name of the fight against terrorism. the third axis - external - advances in the area of defence and gives priority to the creation of a free trade area in europe and the mediterranean, making the eu a regional power. we are against this project. another europe is possible and necessary.
four years after the illusion created by the so-called 'lisbon strategy' adopted during the portuguese presidency, what we have at community level, and in portugal in particular, is a much more serious socioeconomic situation in which not a single social objective has been achieved. the only decisions that have had a positive response have been liberalization and privatization, the precariousness of employment, the attack on public services, that is, the neoliberal agenda of the big european employers, the agenda of unice, the table of the big industrialists, which has become the alpha and the omega of the economic and social policy of this european union. the commission's report shows that the economic revenue will be 'more of the same': the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. we have more unemployment, and the jobs created have been scarce, increasing the number of workers on fixed-term contracts by four million and part-time workers by two million. the relocation of multinationals continues, exacerbating unemployment and stifling the development of many regions, as is happening in my country at the moment, affecting especially women and young people. that is why we insist on a review of the lisbon strategy, a moratorium on liberalization in order to achieve economic recovery and sustained demand. but that is also why we insist on suspending the stability pact and replacing it with a pact for social progress and employment, in line with the objectives of full employment, sustained economic development and economic and social cohesion. only then will we have more training, more education, more innovation and more research, which are essential conditions for sustainable development in the european union.
i regret, mr president, that the report on public finances insists on supporting the commission's determination to comply strictly with the provisions of the stability pact, in the genuine blindness of the current single economic thinking which persists in ignoring reality. i regret that the consequences of the stability pact are not taken into account and that we are not here today, at this moment, to discuss the economic and social problems we are experiencing. i regret that the central objective of economic policy is fiscal consolidation and price stability, to the detriment of economic growth and employment, the improvement of living conditions and the satisfaction of the needs of the population. portugal is an example of this strict and blind application of the stability pact, as it is in a deep recession with a reduction in gdp that could be more than 1% and the highest increase in the unemployment rate in the european union, which is putting at risk not only economic convergence with the union but also, for the third year in a row, the very conditions for a rapid and sustained recovery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary consolidation is not used as a weapon against the public sector, that public investment is not jeopardised and that quality public services are guaranteed. and that means changing this policy, changing this stability pact and talking about a sustainable growth and employment pact before we can respond to the economic and social problems of the union.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european cultural area. it is also an essential dimension of any representative democracy of the western european model, a factor in the elimination of inequalities and an increasingly important factor of progress and development. for all these reasons, culture must be one of the most solid foundations on which the people's europe is built. it is no longer a question, as jean monet may have wished, of starting with culture, a formula which could be understood in questionable terms at a time when concerns were focused only on the beginnings of economic intervention. it is a question of continuing to pursue culture, of adding the concerns about the multiplicity of cultures and the cultural dimension of europe to the set of challenges posed by the construction of europe. in a globalised society, in a europe in growth, in a time of various crises, in the face of a new, multiplied and stimulating presence of national identities and cultural traditions of nearly 400 million citizens, the problems relating to access to culture and the construction of an image of the world by europeans, an image capable of integrating differences into its process, but without ceasing to respect and value them, that is, in a pluralistic, tolerant and dynamic way, cannot fail to be taken very seriously by political leaders. we thus invite them to rethink and reactivate the role of the school in access to culture. not only in terms of the set of basic skills that schools can impart or the core elements of national identity that each member state considers should be part of its curricula, but also in terms of the immense european cultural heritage, in its almost limitless variety of manifestations, in languages, literature, the visual arts, the arts of music, the performing arts, traditions, in short, in everything that gives each of us the indispensable instruments for recognizing the world and identifying with it. it is clear that school cannot be encyclopedic, nor internationally standardized in stereotypes, nor repetitive of a series of mummified common places. but it must also be a better opportunity to access culture and to develop in those who attend from a young age a respect, an appetite and a taste for the expressions of culture which at the same time contribute to deepening reflection and awareness of belonging to a great civilizational and cultural matrix called europe. there are many and varied steps that can be taken in this direction and which, in our view, should start with very concrete aspects of school life. this report, which has taken up a number of suggestions from colleagues in the committee on culture from a wide range of political quarters, has exactly this aim: to express on behalf of the european parliament the wish that this challenge be taken into account, because without it the construction of europe will eventually be meaningless and unworthy of the name. there is no knowledge that can be accepted on the basis of an attitude of indifference to the values that characterize european culture. to give value to the lisbon strategy, to launch the objectives of a knowledge-based economy, would be a contradiction in terms if the question of culture were to be limited to having a poor relative status in these concerns.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as regards the admission of the new member states, this report supports the commission's proposal to support farmers in those states which meet the requirements of eu legislation during the transitional period. the main purpose is to help farmers to adapt to community rules and to reimburse them for the costs of this adaptation. i would remind you that the eu has always attached importance to the implementation of community legislation, including in the field of the environment. i believe that this measure could contribute to the development of the rural areas of the new member states and to the observance of community rules on the environment and human and animal health in these states. i am voting in favour of the proposal, since i stress that it is also a matter of fairness and that the commission's proposal does not involve extraordinary expenditure for the community budget.
in writing. - (pt) the the least that can be done to defend the european shipbuilding industry is to extend the current temporary defensive regime for european shipyards affected by the unfair practices of korean companies beyond its expiry date of 31 march 2004. as you know, the commission's strategy also includes a wto procedure against the republic of korea. the two measures are linked and should therefore operate simultaneously. we have therefore voted in favour of this report, which supports the extension of the temporary defensive regime for the shipbuilding industry for one year.
in writing. - (pt) i support this proposal because i believe that readmission agreements are legal instruments of great importance if cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration is to be strengthened, as was the priority in laeken. they are part of a concerted effort which includes the definition of the rights of third-country nationals, the proper management of migration flows, cooperation with countries of origin and the establishment of a common european asylum system. since the treaty of amsterdam has conferred powers on the community in the field of readmission, and since it is the council which is to negotiate and conclude such agreements, it is regrettable that, as was the case with the first readmission agreement signed with hong kong, the european parliament has not been consulted or informed during the negotiations. the opinion we are asked to give here concerns an agreement which has already been signed by the plenipotentiaries, that is to say at a rather late stage, because once the agreement is concluded, it is no longer possible to propose amendments to the text or to the protocols. this situation is politically unacceptable and i sincerely hope that the commission and the council will keep parliament informed of the progress of the negotiations in future!
in writing. - (pt) we support the position expressed by members of my group in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and once again point out that the policy of readmission agreements follows the repressive strategy defined by the european council in laeken, seville and thessaloniki, namely 'combating illegal immigration', where refugees and immigrants are seen as an economic factor to be exploited or 'just' as persons to be sent back to their countries of origin. the readmission agreements are in line with the eu's asylum and immigration policy, which focuses on reinforced borders, surveillance, control and expulsion, but which continues to ignore the causes of immigration, which are poverty, exploitation, war, etc. it is a position which is in stark contrast to the eu's much-vaunted role of solidarity in the world, for it turns its back on the eu's responsibility in relation to the miserable conditions in which a large part of the world's population must live. we do not support this kind of immigration policy because we put people before economic interests. those who want to support the rights of immigrants cannot vote for an agreement whose main purpose is to make the expulsion of immigrants more effective.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as part of the wider strategy to combat illegal immigration agreed at the tampere, laeken, seville and thessaloniki summits, this readmission agreement between the european community and the macao administrative region is the second agreement concluded with a third country. the signing of such agreements at eu level is one of the priorities of the global plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings since the laeken summit. as regards in particular the readmission agreement with macao, signed in brussels on 18 october 2002, it is an element of the political agreement reached in december 2000, when the ministers for justice and home affairs decided to exempt the macao special administrative region from visa requirements. in parallel with these agreements, readmission clauses have been adopted which can be incorporated into any future association and cooperation agreements with the eu. the clauses are intended solely to oblige the contracting parties to readmit their own nationals, third-country nationals and stateless persons. like the rapporteur, i believe that the council should keep parliament informed of decisions authorizing the signing of agreements. i voted yes.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commission whether it is not aware that the commission has already proposed a memorandum on the issue of the return of chinese nationals to the european union. the commission itself recognises that the eu has difficulties in getting third countries to sign outplacement agreements - which are mainly in the eu's favour - if they do not get anything in return. as highlighted, china has not only complained about the unacceptable treatment of its nationals by european immigration controllers, but has also effectively obstructed eu efforts to return persons to china. this is why the commission is making minor concessions in visa policy to achieve its objective of a broader agreement which will include a return clause. it is therefore rather cynical to recommend that the european parliament should take a positive view of the signing of the memorandum of understanding, because it believes that it is important to expand tourism by chinese nationals in europe, since china will be one of the main starting points for world tourism in the next 10 years.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the importance of this memorandum of understanding between the european community and the national tourism administration of the people's republic of china, which will enable chinese citizens to visit the eu as tourists, lies in the fact that china is one of the main starting points of world tourism and represents a market with many expansion opportunities. the bilateral tourist agreements between china and certain eu member states mean that these tourists can only visit specific destinations in the eu. this restriction will be removed if the new agreement enters into force. it is of the utmost importance that the agreement includes a readmission clause requiring tour operators who are to process visa applications to inform the issuing member state and the chinese authorities of any tourists who are no longer in the group or who have not returned to china. these agencies are thus obliged to cooperate with the competent authorities of the contracting states in order to contribute to the return of tourists who have remained in the eu after the expiry of their visa. i agree with the rapporteur that this unprecedented acceptance by the chinese authorities of a readmission clause may open the way for the conclusion of a genuine readmission agreement with china at a later date.
in writing. - (pt) as i said in the explanations of vote on the recent reports by mrs pernille frahm on the conclusion of the stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants and the conclusion on behalf of the community of the protocol of 1998 to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, i support all measures which effectively and actively promote a better environment. the proposed regulation aims to introduce appropriate legislation to implement the most important provisions of the convention and the protocol which are not yet sufficiently incorporated in community legislation. the present proposal thus aims to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants (pops), chemicals which are persistent in the environment, accumulate in living organisms through the trophic network - the complex interaction of networks between food chains - and present risks of long-term adverse effects on humans and the environment. for all these reasons, i share the commission's and the rapporteur's efforts and feel that i should highlight the important proposal to introduce a name and shame system, which involves the public disclosure by the commission and the member states of infringements of the provisions of this regulation, which will give greater certainty that the provisions are being complied with (through persuasion) and ensure more effective protection of human health and the environment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal aims to update the implementing regulation on the system of own resources of the european communities, following the council decision of 29 september 2000 which suspended the contribution of 'gnp resources' to the financing of the budget and codified the so-called british cheque with adjustments to its financing for the main net contributors, germany, austria, sweden, the netherlands, and the consequent increased contributions from the other member states, including portugal, which is unacceptable. we have always said that imbalances in net transfers cannot be solved on the revenue side and that the principle of 'fair compensation' must not be sacrosanct. national contributions to eu financing should at least correspond to each country's share of community gdp, or there should be harmonisation of member states' per capita contributions to this financing. the central question in the report is whether to include an audit provision for a general review of the system with a view to introducing european taxes instead of the current system of national contributions for the adoption of the financial perspective, an objective which is also included in the commission's proposal. the objective of gradually granting fiscal sovereignty to the eu will not only indirectly support the federalist path towards european integration, but will also have implications for the tax policies of the member states and for the tax burden of citizens. it will not, however, lead to a more equitable financing of the budget.
in writing. - (pt) i share the view that any new system should focus on the abolition of existing compensation schemes, the financing of the budget by the member states according to uniform criteria and the transparency and democratic provision of own resources. the system of own resources has undergone numerous changes - sometimes blocks - largely as a result of the very development of traditional own resources (customs duties and agricultural levies) which have fallen. in 1988 a fourth revenue was added (in addition to vat), namely gdp (gross domestic product), which i believe means that a more transparent system can now be introduced. the commission has also endeavoured to simplify the financing structure by introducing a system based more on the gnp contribution and recommends that the correction mechanisms be phased out. i wholeheartedly support the wish for reform and the declared principles of transparency. i am still awaiting the proposals which the commission has put forward, and as far as this measure is concerned, my doubts as to the impact and nature of a single own resource - that is, the eventual inevitable european taxes - make me neither vote for nor against it.
in writing. - (pt) the since i am neither for nor against any particular wording or omission, i welcome the adoption of the resolution which has as its fundamental objective worldwide nuclear disarmament and which appeals to all countries possessing nuclear weapons to limit and eliminate them. this is particularly relevant in an international situation characterised by growing militarism and interventionism under the leadership of the united states - to mention only the attacks on yugoslavia, afghanistan and iraq, the decision of the us government to develop new generations of nuclear weapons 'usable' in military operations, and the increase in the us budget for 'defence' - accompanied by some eu countries further developing cooperation projects in the defence industry, namely germany, france and the uk. we should have gone further and not merely proposed non-proliferation but real disarmament, which, however, is opposed by interests and forces (political, economic, military) which not only try to ignore the interests and popular opinions of the people but also - though not always openly - try to prevent the decisions taken on non-proliferation from becoming reality. it is therefore particularly important that a proposal put forward by my group has been adopted - by a majority of only one vote! - on the establishment of a zone of freezing of nuclear weapons in the middle east.
in writing. - (pt) the i voted in favour because i believe that the correct understanding and application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (to which i would like to add the principle of proportionality) is a prerequisite for a good balance between the community institutions. the community's action, the relevant and positive effects of which can be seen in solutions such as the open method of coordination, the exchange of best practice and the adoption of common quality standards, should, as the rapporteur so well points out, concentrate (or rather be limited) to those areas where there are mechanisms for delegating powers and where there is a real practical advantage in community intervention. the clarification of these principles will be all the more useful if we definitively adopt a line in the legal system which consolidates the separation of powers and turns away from the policy of legislative expansionism. the principle of proximity obliges us to act at a higher level if and only if it means that we achieve better results than those which we can normally achieve more effectively at a level closer to the citizens. finally, i welcome the rapporteur's view that the commission should concentrate on genuinely european issues.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the main task of the forthcoming spring summit will be to follow up the lisbon strategy to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world and the corresponding objectives of sustainable growth, full employment, reduced poverty and greater social cohesion. factors such as the economic recession, the ageing of the population, rising unemployment and the lack of new jobs make it difficult to achieve these objectives at present. it is also worrying that only 40% of the community measures under the lisbon strategy have been implemented in the member states. it is therefore essential that the forthcoming spring summit makes a serious effort to strengthen the coordination of economic, labour and social policies of the eu and the member states and to implement structural reforms according to a clear plan with well-defined deadlines. particular emphasis should be placed on competitiveness, research and general and lifelong learning, not forgetting the necessary reforms in the legal, financial and fiscal fields to enable smes to make their contribution to the implementation of the lisbon objectives. finally, a clear role for parliament in the preparations for the annual spring summit must be defined.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report's description of the eu's economic and social situation contains many gaps, although it does mention the severe economic slowdown since 2000, the increasing unemployment and poverty and the early school drop-out which still persists. however, the path indicated does not alter the economic and monetary policy guidelines in the slightest, and the emphasis is still on the 'structural reforms' of the lisbon strategy in order to achieve the sacred objective of increasing competitiveness. that is why i am voting against the report. it is forgotten that the growth of gdp in the eu has shown a continuous decline, not least because of the requirements of the stability pact and an overly restrictive monetary policy, which means that the european economy is heading for stagnation with rising unemployment as a consequence. instead, policies should be implemented that stimulate the economy and support purchasing power in the short and medium term, and that prioritise production and work in order to promote economic growth, employment and social cohesion on the basis of a sustainable increase in public investment, at national and european level, in particular in basic infrastructure, vocational training and upskilling, research and development, the environment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i regret that my proposal to ask the commission and the council to make the necessary adjustments to the economic and monetary policy guidelines without delay in order to replace the stability pact with a pact for social progress and employment in line with the objectives of full employment, sustainable economic development and economic and social cohesion has not been taken into account. in the present situation, it is essential to pursue policies which can stimulate the economy in order to promote economic development, employment and social cohesion. it is vital that we have an expansionary budgetary policy which can secure and accelerate the necessary economic recovery, which is why public investment must be increased both at national and european level. i also regret that my proposal to evaluate the role of the stability pact in the implementation of the structural funds has not been adopted, since it is the main community instrument for promoting economic and social cohesion.
in the light of the recent developments in the community, the commission has decided to propose a new financial framework for the community, which will be based on the principle of the european monetary system. the european economy is characterised by a sharp decline in both public and private investment, and geopolitical events such as the war in iraq and sars have had a particularly negative impact on confidence in the economy and growth in europe. the strengthening of the euro against the dollar also has a dampening effect on the competitiveness of the european economy. it is against this background that the effects of the recent more flexible a la carte implementation of the stability and growth pact must be seen. as the report rightly points out, portugal was the first emu country to be subject to an excessive deficit procedure for the 2001 offence. since then, the portuguese government, which came to power after the 2002 elections, has made great efforts to implement the provisions of the stability and growth pact, with great sacrifices and unpopular measures. the portuguese prime minister announced last week that portugal had remained within the 2.8% budget deficit threshold in 2003 (as in 2002). i have refused to support the amendments tabled by the uen group because they only reflect specific french positions which clearly differ from the portuguese perspective.
in writing. - (pt) the in this explanation of vote we simply want to point out that we believe that the budget is fundamentally wrong in its priorities, as this report illustrates almost to the point. first of all, it presents the budgetary constraints, the framework, and only then it looks at the conditions for implementation and their improvement and finally at how to meet existing and new needs, which should be the main thing. as an example, we can point out that for us the problem of multilingualism is not a technical issue but an important political one. we are also very reluctant to set up a parliamentary assembly in the wto, but not just for budgetary reasons. in the second place, we are expressing our views on many other issues which are covered in this report.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people against the dangers of exposure to ionizing radiation is a very good one. it adds nothing of substance to the white paper and does not even go into the way in which the initiatives have been implemented, such as the european youth week, which went largely unnoticed in portugal. however, the report highlights some aspects and makes suggestions which should be taken into account, not least its call to member states to identify opportunities for young people to participate in decision-making processes at local, regional and national level and to find effective ways of consulting young people. however, in this context, some factors affecting participation should be taken into account, such as equal access to education, participation in school activities outside the curriculum, freedom and autonomy of student organisations, the right to work, working with rights, freedom of association and encouragement of young people to participate in various social and political fields at local, regional and national level.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report highlights some aspects which should be taken into account, in particular its call for member states which invest a lower percentage of gdp in education than the eu average to increase their investment in human resources in education and for all pupils to be able to learn two foreign languages. the report contains some contradictions and advocates a federalist approach which we do not share. we are therefore afraid that we are moving towards a dangerous path of differentiated funding of schools depending on whether or not they follow courses which promote 'european identity', which is another way of putting pressure and arbitrariness on the funding of education and a completely hidden way of interfering with national curricula and education systems. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. - (pt) the i welcome the initiative taken by the rapporteur to launch a european debate on the role of schools and school education in improving public access to culture. i think it is particularly important to change the parameters of education and culture, not only in the light of enlargement but also in the light of the european identity, whose strength - as i have said so many times - comes from the different cultures of which it is composed. i welcome the desire to give greater prominence to the european dimension, particularly through increased language teaching, not only in subjects directly related to this subject, but in all school subjects. i would like to warn against the risk of a lack of roots and eurocentrism, which would make education and training lose its connection with national cultures and its presence outside the european area. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i voted in favour, although i think it is important to ensure that certain of the proposals in the report do not conflict with the powers conferred by the treaties on the member states and the european union respectively in the cultural field.
mr president, our vote in favour of this report by mr belder does not mean any intrusion into the sphere of internal competence of russia, whose sovereignty the european parliament must respect. it simply means that we must seize this opportunity to give a new impetus to the debate on the union's policy towards russia at the very moment when, as a result of enlargement, our borders are becoming common precisely through the inclusion in the union of countries which were under the sphere of the former soviet union and which will undoubtedly have an important say in this area. the european union does not choose its neighbours, but it chooses the countries with which it wants to cooperate. this report may well alert us to the insufficient progress made in cooperation with russia, to the difficult situation still being experienced in chechnya, where the balance between the preservation of human rights and the intransigence of the fight against terrorism is almost impossible, and to the fragility of some essential aspects of the process of democratic construction in that country. are these reasons enough to lead us to a decrease in our commitment to the strategic relationship with russia? quite the opposite! the aim is to find ways of making the partnership between the european union and russia more effective, both politically and economically, and also in terms of security and stability in europe and the world.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it is clear that russia has many problems to contend with and it is clear that some of these problems may have a negative influence on relations between russia and the eu. the situation in chechnya, the deteriorating conditions for democracy and the restrictions on freedom of information, and the deteriorating social climate are of particular concern. the recent announcements of the russian government's resignation 10 days before the elections give cause for fear of a worsening of these symptoms and an increase in internal tensions, which will certainly not have a beneficial effect on eu-russia relations. in view of the proposal for a recommendation, which, although critical, is distinguished by its frank identification of the problematic issues, i think it is nevertheless advisable for the council to exercise restraint on this matter, without ignoring the vital strategic importance of russia as a link between europe and asia and the progress actually made. the eu must not relax its criticism or its vigilance, but must also promote a relationship of trust and strength with this important partner. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the uncertainty in the three countries of the south caucasus, which is undermining their development and economic progress, and the threat to europe posed by the instability of the region, which has been confirmed by the recent elections in armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, make it necessary for us to strengthen cooperation between the eu and these countries. a climate of political mistrust, democratic deficit, widespread poverty and increased corruption have created a more dangerous situation in all three countries. if we add to the internal situation the growing competition between neighbours and the great powers for greater influence on this strategically important crossroads between europe and asia, between civilizations, religions and ethnic groups, it is clear that international support is needed to promote democracy, human rights, peace, economic development and social justice. the eu must therefore decide to take a more consistent approach, perhaps a common strategy, also because of the strong interdependence between these three countries, russia and the other countries around the caspian sea. however, i have some reservations about the rapporteur's proposal that these countries should be included in the eu, even in the long term.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the european union should take a special interest in the caucasus region, which since the fall of the soviet empire has shown a worrying lack of capacity to solve the problems it faces. despite the efforts of the governments of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, progress in the implementation of the rule of law and the market economy has been slow and the management of public funds has left much to be desired. the threat posed by this instability also concerns the security of europe and the community should therefore help to resolve bilateral issues and to bring about peace internally through efforts aimed at improving regional cooperation and post-conflict reconstruction. the importance of the region justifies a common strategy, which should be developed with a coherent policy for the whole region in the form of a stability pact for the caucasus. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to promote the creation of a south caucasian community and an enlarged area of cooperation for the countries of the black sea, caucasus and caspian sea regions. the proposal to include these countries in the eu in the long term must, however, be considered with realism and common sense.
mr president, i would also like to remind you today, on this international women's day, not only of the problem of discrimination against women, but also of the issue of women who are victims of war. i believe that on this day we must not forget what women are suffering as victims of war in iraq, palestine and so many other countries. and i hope that this day will also be used by us to remind us of the need to fight against war, to contribute to the end of these conflicts, of the illegal occupation of iraq, of the end of this humiliation of the people of palestine, of the women who suffer there every day from this unjust war. i would also like to recall that the world social forum called for us all to take part on 20 march in demonstrations against the war, in defence of peace, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the war against iraq that the united states, britain and their allies waged, and to defend the end of the occupation of iraq, to defend peace.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the president and this house to a serious problem in mozambique with alleged trafficking in human organs. unfortunately, we have not been able to reach a consensus in the conference of presidents to bring the matter to this part-session as an urgent matter and i therefore appeal to the president that at the next part-session, since there are no urgent matters, the matter may be dealt with by a communication from the commission and the council, to whom i have been asking questions since january. it is a matter of extreme gravity. in recent months, reports have emerged of 50 to 100 children missing, but the full extent of the phenomenon is unknown. since the case became public in january, portuguese public opinion has been increasingly concerned, as indeed has been the case in spain, where spanish religious women have been threatened. in brazil, a brazilian lutheran nun who denounced this trafficking in mozambique was recently murdered, the newspaper le monde also devoted attention to it, the bbc also, and this house cannot continue to ignore this matter. the commission's proposal for a framework decision on the fight against organ trafficking, which we discussed here last october, is unfortunately still out of date in the council and therefore we need to have general information on the problem and specifically on this tragedy in mozambique.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the speeches by mr ribeiro and mr castro, i too would like to draw the house's attention to the cruel, brutal trade in human organs that is taking place in northern mozambique, near a town called nampula. this brutal, cruel trade cannot be accepted, it must be denounced and it must shock the human conscience. the european parliament, mr president, must do something, must protest, must act to stop this trade, to put an end to this brutality. i ask the president to write to the president of the republic of mozambique and to the president of the national assembly to express the concern of the european parliamentarians about a situation which is truly tragic.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to work and to have a family. that is why it is a privilege to be able to present and debate my report on this subject today. this is because today, 8 march, is international women's day and because the current year, 2004, has been proclaimed the international year of the family. we know that our professional, family and private lives are three facets of our lives, but they are also three complementary lives. and that the promotion of equality between men and women is a primary mission of the community, which implies the need to compensate for the disadvantage of women in terms of conditions of access to and participation in the labour market and the disadvantage of men in terms of conditions of participation in family life. in the 1990s there was a great deal of momentum and much community legislation was created in this area. but the policies of the member states are not consistent. in this context, two issues should be taken into account: the first is the demographic challenge, on the one hand, the ageing population requires greater input of human resources into the labour market and this access must be equal; on the other hand, there is a need for family policies that favour demographic growth. secondly, the challenge of economic growth cannot be dispensed with by measures to encourage women's work. the coherence of policies depends on balancing these two issues. if it is not in practice, there will be a negative interaction between the two and the work-life balance will be irremediably jeopardised. for me, the crux of this issue is that women should always have the possibility to choose whether they want to work when they have children or whether they want to stay at home. to this end, measures must be taken to enable women to make their choice without jeopardizing their careers or their family and private lives. this diversity of situations should be emphasised and taken into account. let me stress that in the european union one in six women aged 25 to 54 is inactive, neither employed nor unemployed, because of her family responsibilities and because she cannot reconcile her work and family life. the fact that women are prevented or hindered from entering the labour market is a factor in the decline of european productivity. the differences between the northern and southern member states of europe are telling. we must concentrate on the good practices of our partners in denmark, sweden and finland, which have the highest female employment rate. in sweden, women enjoy a wide choice of day care centres. denmark devotes 3.8% of its national wealth to family policies, a european record. the rate of inflation is one of the highest in europe and the birth rate is 1.73%, one of the highest in the european union. all the actors in this field, the family, national, local and regional authorities and the social partners, must be involved. the lisbon conclusions state that the balanced participation of women and men in both professional and family life, which is in the interest of both men and women, is an essential aspect of the development of society, and that motherhood, fatherhood and the rights of the child are eminent social values which must be protected by society, the member states and the european community. the de facto equality of women and men in the public and private spheres must be socially accepted as a condition of democracy, a prerequisite for citizenship and a guarantee of individual autonomy and freedom, with reflections in all the policies of the european union. the objectives of the lisbon and barcelona european councils are major challenges for the european union and require innovative measures. i will highlight a few: the impact of policies on households should be monitored in both the current and the new member states. this original concept of family mainstreaming should be distinguished from the concept of gender mainstreaming. companies should be made aware of the reconciliation of work and family life as a right of their workers, a social responsibility and an essential tool for promoting higher productivity. a guide to good practice for enterprises should be developed in collaboration with the social partners, including the dissemination of success stories. the organisation of work, including the promotion of parttime work, the continuous shift and teleworking, can be an answer. the creation of internet sites with databases of services useful to workers and the dissemination of existing support structures, the raising of awareness and the encouragement of employers to open or maintain social support structures facilitating the reconciliation of family and working life, the granting of tax exemptions or exemptions to companies, cash assistance and vouchers such as childcare cheques, employment cheques, etc., special support for single-parent families and single mothers, particularly at the tax level, rent and family allowances, all these will be ambitious measures, because we have to go further. i would therefore like to ask the commission, as rapporteur, to develop the necessary mechanisms for the drafting of a framework directive on reconciling work, family and private life, so that all member states, present and future, have the instruments and the appropriate responses to the challenges of equal opportunities, economic growth and demography.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the first man in this debate, i also begin by greeting women on international women's day, and i would like to address a special appeal to the women who are closest to me, my grandmothers, my mother, my wife and my daughters. and since we are talking about the family, i would like to warmly congratulate my colleague regina bastos on the excellent report she has presented, on the extremely high quality and depth of her work, which i am sure will inspire the commission, as i have already said, in future measures. this report is also a response to a number of family associations which addressed a petition to this parliament on 15 may last year, the date on which the international day of the family is celebrated. i would like to highlight in particular concepts which i believe will be of greater importance for the future: the concept of family mainstreaming, the transversal treatment of family policies, which is well established in this report and which should not be confused or conflicted with the other concept of gender mainstreaming. another concept to which i have also contributed, and which i am grateful to have been welcomed, is that of family-friendly policies, particularly in the areas of urban planning, housing and labour policies. as mrs eriksson has already said, we must develop family-friendly policies more and more, or we will be making a serious attack on the personal choices of our citizens. these are the points i would like to highlight. the report is magnificent, the resolution is extraordinary. i only disagree with what mrs prets has said, and i only mention it because mrs prets has just said that she is seeking to redefine the family in this report. i believe that this is not the responsibility of this parliament, i have doubts about the legal aspect, which has the slightest relevance, and i believe that we should not confuse the treatment of new types of unions and personal relationships and their legal status with the concept of the family, which is a sociologically and anthropologically well-defined and well-rooted concept and which deserves all our protection in this report. once again, my congratulations to colleague regina bastos.
mr president, on this 8th of march, when we celebrate women and the struggle for equal rights and opportunities, we must stress that despite progress in principle, deep inequalities and great discrimination remain in a wide variety of areas. we are far from complying with community decisions, whether it be on equal access to employment, wages and promotions, the promotion of rights in the areas of sexual and reproductive health, the construction of social facilities to support motherhood and fatherhood, day care centres and childcare facilities or structures to support the elderly. women continue to be victims of domestic violence despite existing programmes and legislation. discrimination against migrant women and women with disabilities is particularly serious, despite the proposals we have approved here. human trafficking and prostitution continue to reach alarming levels in this european union, calling for other socioeconomic policies, quality public services and effective measures to tackle the problems of poverty and social exclusion. neoliberalism, by subordinating people, is preventing women from realizing their rights, is aggravating unemployment, is making jobs more precarious, is devaluing motherhood and fatherhood, and is making it more difficult for women to participate in social and political life. in some countries of the european union there are even legal and practical setbacks. i would like to highlight what is happening in portugal. despite all the calls for an end to legislation condemning women who have to resort to voluntary termination of pregnancy, there are still real attacks on women's dignity and privacy, with court proceedings, as recently happened in aveiro, in the trial involving seven women accused of clandestine abortion, their families and companions. even if they were all acquitted, there has already been the threat of appeal by the public prosecutor's office because the law that sentences women to a penalty of up to three years in prison, in a persecutory attitude against women, is maintained. the attempt to amend the law made in the assembly of the republic on 3 march was rejected by the deputies who support the current right-wing government majority, maintaining a situation that is a disgrace to portugal and that penalizes above all the women with the weakest economic and financial resources who cannot use safe health services in the neighbouring country. so despite the voting in this european parliament of important resolutions aimed at promoting women's rights, most of the decisions are ignored by the member states because the political will to put the measures adopted into practice is lacking. the great challenge is therefore to continue to fight for the promotion of equality and the effective respect for women's dignity.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would like to take the floor on behalf of my group to make just three brief comments. firstly, to express our wish that this report be really about the cairo international conference on population and development. and we can't look at it that way. it is basically a report on sexual and reproductive health, and it does not address other important issues of the cairo conference on population and development. for example, there is not a word about economic growth; there is not a word about migration; there is not a word about urbanization; there is not a word about the environment; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly. as regards male responsibility, it is mentioned only once; and education, which is dealt with in a multifaceted way at the cairo conference, is only referred to here in reproductive health. so this is more of a sexual and reproductive health report. now, the second observation: we think it is important that we define exactly what we mean by sexual and reproductive health, which, not wanting to confront colleagues, is a subject that concerns not only women but also men. and we must make clear this concept, which is often manipulated in international discussions. the definition i propose is that sexual and reproductive health should be understood as the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, including hiv/aids, a scourge that concerns us all, and the guarantee to women of the good conditions necessary for pregnancy, childbirth and the postpartum period. that is the concept we are proposing. finally, a final word on abortion. i agree with the rapporteur when she says that abortion is not a means of contraception. i agree with that - it seems quite obvious to me, in fact. but we must draw the conclusion that it should not be treated as such. and this is a matter which, i believe, should be left to each country. i think it is very unfortunate that the european union is put in a position where it can be accused of promoting abortion internationally, and we therefore propose that the ninth indent of paragraph 20 be deleted.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the treaty of amsterdam directly confers on every citizen of the union a primary individual right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, irrespective of whether or not he is engaged in an economic activity. this right is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this implies that citizens of the union must be able to move between the various member states in the same way as nationals of a member state move or change their place of residence within its own territory. we all recognize, however, that there are still many obstacles to the exercise of this fundamental right today - a situation which has been confirmed by numerous judgments of the court of justice on this subject. it is therefore essential that this directive be adopted as soon as possible in order to simplify the exercise of the right of free movement. i therefore support the recommendation of the rapporteur, mr giacomo santini, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, that we adopt this common position as it is presented to us. it covers a large part of the amendments proposed by the european parliament at first reading and seems to me to be fairly balanced in general. furthermore, any further amendment would imply the reopening of negotiations and would call into question the urgency of adopting this directive, especially in view of the proximity of enlargement. i would like to highlight the main proposals, which i think are the most important: firstly, to reduce administrative formalities to what is absolutely necessary; secondly, the right to free movement without any formalities being required for a period of three months; thirdly, the introduction of a right of permanent residence after four years of uninterrupted residence in the host member state; fourthly, the imposition of limitations on the possibility of refusing or withdrawing the right of residence in respect of a union citizen on grounds of security and public order; and fifth and lastly, as regards the definition of the concept of family, i would like to stress that the harmonisation of the conditions of residence applicable to union citizens should in no way impose changes to the legislation of the member states and their definitions of family status. the treaty excludes family law from the scope of union competence, so this is an area of national competence.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, drugs are a problem common to all the member states, which clearly shows the need for a european dimension in the fight against drugs. and this european dimension has been evident in actions ranging from the adoption of legal instruments against the manufacture and trafficking of drugs to cooperation with the producing countries and the promotion of the prevention and combating of drug addiction. this is a new consultation of this parliament after the council has finally reached an agreement after more than two years of negotiations. the rapporteur, mr oostlander, proposes that no amendments be tabled because, given the long period of time it took the council to reach agreement, it is preferable that we accept the text as proposed. i agree with that view, the fact that an agreement has been reached on this matter is in itself valuable. at least we have taken a step, albeit a small one, which is decisive in that it can serve as an incentive for the european union to cooperate in criminal matters. i know that my country, portugal, welcomes this draft framework decision, which does not raise any particular difficulties in relation to our law. the definitions used in the framework decision are based on existing un conventions on the fight against drug trafficking, and it can be said that these definitions are not the strictest, they are the lowest common denominator that could be reached. in this way, all forms of trafficking, cultivation and sale are penalized. furthermore, the penalties provided for by the member states should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, including custodial sentences. in determining the level of penalties, the amount and nature of the drugs involved in trafficking are of greater importance, and the fact that they were committed within or outside a criminal organisation is of greater importance. on the other hand, the phenomenon of drug tourism must be discouraged, and the news from the dutch minister of justice that his government intends to discourage drug tourism by making its legislation more stringent in restricting sales in coffee shops to residents only is welcome.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been lamenting here the lack of attention paid to the questions of external borders. they are one of the weakest links in the system, which has negative consequences not only for the effective protection of internal security, in particular with regard to the threats of terrorism, illegal immigration networks and trafficking in human beings, but also for the full application of the principle of free movement. it is therefore urgent to adopt coherent measures in the field of border security without jeopardising the member states' own competences. a common policy on the control of the present and future external borders should be developed, which implies the application of common standards and the establishment of common structures in order to establish an integrated management of those borders, including the establishment of an independent agency ensuring a high and uniform level of control and surveillance. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative, which is generally quite positive. my colleague von boetticher must be expecting me to make a reference to his excellent report, and i cannot help but congratulate him on the excellent work he has done and say that, like him, i find it regrettable that it has not been given a more community character, following what had already been requested earlier by the european parliament. we also continue to await a proposal on minimum standards for return procedures and mutual recognition of return decisions. i am convinced, however, that this will be a positive step towards strengthening mutual trust between member states in the control of the external borders which are common, which means that weakness in the control of one state will inevitably have a knock-on effect on the security of all the other member states. this is all the more relevant if we take into account that with enlargement the union will have ten new states which will become responsible for controlling thousands of kilometres of the union's new external borders.
the commission has already made a commitment to the socialist party to remove recital g, which was part of a package including amendment no 7. this means that, since amendment no 7 has been adopted, the deletion of recital g should be voted in favour of.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which, without amendments, proposes to approve the commission proposal to codify council decision 78/774/eec on the activities of certain third countries in the field of maritime transport. the purpose of the council decision is to establish information systems to keep the community institutions informed of the activities of fleets established in third countries whose conduct is detrimental to the maritime interests of the member states, in particular in so far as such activities are detrimental to the competitiveness of the fleets of the member states involved in international shipping. this information system is intended to facilitate consultation at community level. in order not to destroy the substance of the laws to be codified, the commission's proposal is therefore limited to bringing them together in a single document subject only to the formal amendments required by the actual codification process. this process should also serve as clarification, since the council decision has been substantially amended several times.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report welcomes the commission's proposal for a regulation which aims to prepare the western balkan countries for their future accession by familiarizing them with the policies and working methods of the eu. more specifically, all natural and legal persons from the member states covered by regulation (ec) no 2666/2000 may participate in tenders organised under the community programmes for pre-accession assistance. this proposal therefore brings new life into the stabilisation and association process. these measures relate to the measures approved by the thessaloniki council. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the introduction of the new financial regulation required the adoption of basic instruments for a number of grants which have been financed to date without having to have their own legal basis. the purpose of this proposal for a european parliament and council decision is to establish a community action programme to promote actions to protect the community's financial interests - the hercule programme. the programme ultimately finances specific measures and provides grants to the bodies working in this field. the draft decision is improved by this report and deserves our support as such. firstly, the report is in line with the decisions taken by the budgetary authority at the end of last year, in other words an action programme for 2004-06 financed with no less than eur 12 million. it proposes that grants be allocated subsequently in accordance with the objectives (technical support, training, exchange of specialised staff and seminars and conferences) and that olaf's reporting on the implementation and objectives of the current programme be continued.
in writing. - (pt) this proposal for a decision seeks to establish a community action programme to promote actions to protect the community's financial interests (hercule programme), and i naturally support it. the programme includes grants for occasional activities such as study programmes, conferences or training and grants for bodies in this field such as associations set up to promote the protection of the community's financial interests. the current process of reforming the commission, and in particular the adoption of the new financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the community, requires the adoption of basic instruments for a number of grants which have been financed to date without being covered by a specific basic instrument. the subsidies to be covered by a basic instrument in future include several grants granted by the commission for the protection of the community's financial interests. the purpose of this proposal is to create the basic instrument by establishing a community action programme for commission grants in this field. the purpose of this proposal is to put together a basic instrument of this kind, thereby establishing a community action programme for the distribution of commission grants in this field. more specifically, the measures necessary to prevent and combat fraud against the community's financial interests in accordance with the provisions of article 280 ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in december, parliament approved the 2004 budget - both the community budget for the 15 eu countries and, in cooperation with the council, indicative figures for the enlargement of the 10 new member states. the focus was therefore on a community budget of 25 million, even though enlargement will not take place until may. the purpose of this draft amending budget is to set out the fixed amounts for the 25 member states. the question here is not only technical, but it is not primarily procedural either. the main issue is the content of the first budget for an enlarged union, including countries where the average per capita income is considerably lower than the current eu average, a budget with payment expenditure raised to the level of inflation, the lowest budget in constant prices since 1987, a budget which not only fails to contribute to economic and social cohesion but also institutes discrimination against the new member states, a budget which is a poor example of parliament's role as budgetary authority, accepting year after year cuts and realignments which, despite considerable protests, are in line with the objectives of the 'charter of the six'. this budget does not bode well for the financial framework for 2007-13. it is characterized by political objectives dominated by the fierce focus on competitiveness, and where social issues are replaced by military and security issues. it would be difficult for a budget to be more explicit.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the fires in portugal, and it is therefore proposing that the commission should take the necessary measures to combat them. it demonstrates a clear need to finance forest fire prevention measures to preserve the rich and extensive forests of the eu, especially in the southern member states and the mediterranean area, which are affected by such fires every year. however, appropriate measures are also needed at community level. the new programme for the protection of forests, forest focus, adopted last year and running until 2006, includes measures to combat forest pollution. however, the measures necessary for forest fire prevention are left to rural development, thus undermining the continuity of the measures financed so far. it should not be forgotten that parliament has in various resolutions called for additional funds for the programme for the protection of forests and for the inclusion of measures to prevent fires. we therefore regret that the opportunity to take account of the needs of enlargement was not taken when the reference amounts for the programme were adjusted, to adjust the objectives and increase the appropriations. despite the large increase in forest cover in the eu, only eur 4 million has been added for the 10 new member states to the current ceiling of eur 61 million for this period ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it was agreed during the 2004 budgetary procedure that we should revise the reference amounts for the 29 community programmes adopted under the codecision procedure to take account of the needs of the 10 new countries in the period 2004-06, as these amounts were set only for the current 15 member states. at the conciliation meeting on 24 november, the council and parliament agreed to increase the reference amounts by eur 2.58 million, only some eur 30 million less than parliament's original proposal. however, this cannot be seen as a victory, since parliament's original proposal was in line with the limits of the financial perspective. many of these programmes, adopted under the codecision procedure, had been underfunded for the 15 member states and we should have taken the opportunity to make general corrections to the programmes and in some cases to the actual objectives. we refer to supplementary programmes for activities in the member states in areas such as the sixth research and development programme, the framework programme for culture, forest focus for the protection of forests, life iii, public health, youth, education, including socrates, and many others. this report, one of five, is the basis for an agreement which does not live up to the requirements of direct involvement by parliament, and we condemn that.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. in portugal alone, over two million people - over 20% of the population - live close to the poverty line. as long as nothing is done to alleviate the severe income inequality and high unemployment affecting over 14 million people, the risk of poverty and social exclusion is increasing and will increase further with the enlargement of 10 countries where the average income is lower than in the community. it is therefore regrettable that the community programme of measures to combat and prevent exclusion is financed with only 75 million euro in the period 2002-06, i.e. an average of 15 million euro per year for the current 15 member states. worse still, the adjustment made to take account of the needs of enlargement is only 10 million euro, or 2 million per year. the contribution of parliament to this situation is regrettable, since the fight against social exclusion and poverty should be one of the main priorities, also taking into account the limited objectives of the present programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the present package of commission proposals (one for each type of act, namely decision, resolution, regulation, and another on the proposal to adjust the reference amount of the sixth euratom framework programme) to amend the reference amounts of the programmes adopted under the codecision procedure to take account of enlargement. when revising the financial perspective for 2000-06 to take account of enlargement, parliament and the council shall, at the end of the 2004 budgetary procedure and in accordance with the codecision procedure, revise the reference amounts for the programmes adopted under the codecision procedure, within the limits of the above adjustment and revision of the financial perspective. i believe that the additional amount proposed - eur 2.58 million over and above the initial budget of eur 26.7 million - meets the financing needs of the current enlargement process for this important package of programmes adopted under the co-decision procedure under heading 3 of the financial perspective (internal policies). the results were in some cases excellent and therefore deserved high praise and accordingly our unanimous support.
in writing. - (pt) when an official vessel of a member state detects and pursues on the high seas a vessel suspected of illegal drug trafficking and sailing under the flag of another state, the legislation currently does not allow it to intervene without the prior authorization of the flag state. the need for prior authorization and the time it takes to obtain it mean that many operations to combat drug trafficking on the high seas end in failure. the basic objective of the spanish initiative must be seen in this context. the aim is simply to increase cooperation between the customs authorities of the union in combating the trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances by enabling, in cases of special urgency, an official vessel of a member state to enter the high seas against a vessel flying the flag of another state where there are good reasons to believe that the vessel is being used for illegal drug trafficking, without the prior authorization of the flag state concerned. although this initiative is limited to offences arising from the illicit trafficking of drugs on the high seas and in the light of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur - although we do not approve them all - i voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. we therefore need to find new ways of combating this type of crime. it is important to pay particular attention to the situation of the victims of this type of crime. they must be given protection and assistance, especially if they are minors or come from a similarly vulnerable group. these immigrants are exploited by criminals and their illegal status makes it very difficult for them to escape, as they are often afraid to contact the relevant authorities. i welcome this directive, as i believe it will go a long way towards helping victims and catching criminals. short-term residence permits shall be granted to victims of activities facilitating illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities. in general, the amendments are aimed at improving the situation of victims. it has been suggested that they should be given a period of reflection, to enable them to consider whether they wish to cooperate, which can be difficult in view of the difficulties they may have, not only in their situation but ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission proposes a number of measures to improve the monitoring of the implementation of community law. the communication gives a detailed description of the prevention measures, which are carried out in close and reciprocal cooperation between the commission and the member states. it also describes the conditions for effective control management and how infringements are dealt with, which will become even more important after enlargement. finally, the possibility of a gradual change in the control culture by introducing prevention of such behaviour is examined. there are, of course, both positive and negative aspects to mr maccormick's report. among the good points was recital l: "... that failure of the legislative authority to achieve good quality in its legislative work may be detrimental to the proper understanding and implementation of community law" and "its desire for increased cooperation between the members of the european parliament and the members of the national parliaments". these points were enough to get me to vote in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the as the report states, the most effective guarantee of the proper implementation of community law begins with the quality of legislation. only legislation of the highest quality can be understood and applied correctly. appropriate control depends on information which is both qualitative - concerning the practice adopted in the application of the law - and quantitative, reporting on the number of directives whose implementation or actual application is delayed by reference to fixed deadlines or is otherwise insufficient. as regards this measure, it is important to stress the importance of close and reciprocal cooperation between the commission and the member states. as the commission's communication rightly points out, it is not enough to simply punish infringements. it is also important that we prevent such violations before they occur. such preventive measures shall involve closer cooperation with national parliaments and strict observance of the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and appropriateness.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the question of attacks with biological and chemical agents in the eu countries has been discussed in particular since the terrorist attacks of 11 september. a joint programme was adopted to improve cooperation between member states in chemical risk assessment, alarms, intervention, storage of intervention products and research. however, we must be realistic and rational in the measures we decide to take if we were faced with the threat of this type of attack. i believe that the adoption of budgetary and legal initiatives must be based on a clear risk analysis of the real probability of terrorist attacks in the eu. i therefore support the recommendation that a realistic analysis of the threat be carried out, which will form the basis of the eu's response. it will make use of european cooperation between national police forces, including europol, and take account of the results of cooperation between intelligence services in the fight against terrorism.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this question was almost unanimously adopted by the committee, with only two members voting against. the report aims to improve the preparedness and response to attacks by biological and chemical agents. it concludes that an effective system against such an attack should be based on four pillars: an effective early warning system, an effective early warning system, a well-developed public health system and emergency response plans. what is required is an effective disaster response framework that is far more far-reaching than a stockpile of vaccines, which at first sight seems a simple solution but is no guarantee of success. that is why i voted in favour. terrorism has become a real threat since 9/11. the unpredictability of the fight against terrorism means that it must be prevented. i congratulate mr schmid on his report, but i would also like to suggest a somewhat different approach. measures should be taken to counter biological and chemical attacks. citizens will be protected from terrorist attacks of any kind if such attacks can be neutralised in time.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the present report raises so many questions that it would be impossible to cover them all in this short explanation of vote. nevertheless, while i do not agree with the weight of certain assumptions and proposals in the report, it deserves praise for its criticism of the current suppression of rights and the protection of privacy and data protection - as a result of measures adopted in certain countries under the guise of 'fighting terrorism' - which undermine fundamental rights and freedoms. i would like to emphasize the report's criticism of the agreement being negotiated between the eu and the us on the transfer of transatlantic passenger data, which it considers illegal. the report also criticises the attitude of the commission and certain member states, which 'creates the impression of substantial complicity in the violation of the law and the principle of legality'. as a consequence, personal data may, without the information of the data subject or his or her consent, be transferred by or be accessible directly or systematically to third parties. i would also like to point out the need for effective supervision of europol and eurojust, the concern about the strengthening of sis and about projects to increase the capacity and powers of sis ii and the anxiety about the development of the use of personal biometric data.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) although i do not agree with the wording of some parts of this report, i do believe that it contains a number of proposals to maintain the dignity of prisoners in various eu countries, to improve the conditions in which they are detained and to help them reintegrate into society. the report opens with an alarming picture of the situation in various parts of the eu on aspects such as overcrowding, an increase in the number of prisoners, an increase in the number of prisoners awaiting final sentencing, drug abuse and an increase in the number of suicides. the report contains various general recommendations, which i welcome, including the right of prisoners to have access to a lawyer, the right of prisoners to health and safety, to decent conditions of detention, to professional and social reintegration, a recommendation on the protection of minors and in particular the protection of pregnant women and mothers of young children, and a recommendation that prison staff be trained and have decent working conditions. if these recommendations are implemented, they will help to solve the serious problems that exist.
in writing. - (pt) i am of course in favour of the fundamental rights of prisoners and i am aware of the problems of overcrowding, the number of deaths, suicides and ill-treatment and the inadequate conditions in prisons which force us to consider the need for a number of measures in this area. however, this is a matter for the member states alone. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i therefore voted against.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the council's common position is in line with the positions previously adopted by parliament. however, it contains two points which we would like to see changed so that the second phase of the daphne programme (2004-08), which is already six months behind schedule, can start. firstly, the council's proposal places too much emphasis on the perpetrators of violence, creating an additional target group on the same level as the victims of violence. we welcome the need to establish treatment programmes also targeting violent offenders and as such ask that only reference be made to these in the section on treatment programmes targeting both victims and people at risk as well as those who have committed violence. the second point is the creation of a support centre for ngos to help them improve their projects, establish links with other actors and benefit from the daphne programme's regulatory framework. the provision for technical assistance is important in this second phase of the programme, especially for the ngos participating for the first time, i.e. those from the new member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) although most of parliament's proposals for extending the daphne programme until 2008 had already been accepted, and even after the funding had been increased to eur 50 billion, we voted in favour of the rapporteur's position. we must ask the commission to maintain the balance in its proposals with regard to victims and aggressors and to ensure that they are not placed on the same level. we also agree with the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to ensure that the new member states can also benefit from this programme, not least through the establishment of a support centre to help ngos plan their projects and establish links, especially those participating for the first time. it is important, however, that the governments of the member states pay particular attention to this problem and do not leave the campaign to combat violence to the ngos alone. a recent programme on a french television channel also criticised the lack of an information campaign against violence on that channel. there is such a campaign in spain, and yet over 60 women have died in recent years, and this year follows a similar pattern. the situation in portugal is exactly the same as in spain.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european parliament. this would, for example, create the procedure for 'sanctioning' a 'european political party' which no longer complies with the 'principles on which the european union is founded'. although the report tries to make us believe that it is technical, i believe that it is, on the contrary, highly political. it is the implementation of the 'statute and funding of european political parties', which sets out - and this is important - a specific model for the european political party and establishes procedures for access to funding, subject to discriminatory conditions. there are many aspects to be covered, but it is important to mention how strange it is that parliament is faced with this process, since it must be the judge and the condemned, and this according to criteria and procedures which can lead to exclusion for purely political reasons. i would also point out that the original aim of this whole process was to circumvent the court of auditors' criticism of the funding of certain groups in parliament by their respective 'european parties'. this solution is imposed by the dominant players in the eu without any real support, which is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - (pt) we would like to question the controversial fact that decisions on the formation of political alliances or political parties at european level which are not internal bodies of parliament, as well as decisions on the granting of grants to these organizations, fall within the unconditional competence of parliament. it is particularly controversial because it is based on vague and elastic criteria, allowing decisions to be taken on a purely political basis, and where members both judge and are judged. it is precisely because the bureau is the body competent to take such decisions that i have voted against the report. not all political groups represented in parliament sit on the bureau, but all political groups should be involved in making politically charged decisions such as setting up political organisations eligible for eu funding, otherwise the transparency of the decisions is compromised. the union for a europe of nations group therefore tabled an amendment which aims to replace the bureau with the conference of presidents, which is the body dealing with questions of such representation. i voted against because this amendment was rejected.
in writing. - (pt) the report before us responds to the need to amend parliament's rules of procedure in the light of the new powers in the fields of financial management and monitoring of the eligibility of political parties at european level. in my view, this would undermine the provisions of the treaties. the bureau will be responsible for most of the tasks related to the operation of the grant scheme, as it is the body responsible for financial and administrative matters concerning the members of parliament and internal organisation. i must repeat that, in accordance with the principles of objectivity and proportionality, there is a great need for the provisions, especially financial provisions, relating to political parties at european level to be extended to and applied to all political parties at european level - without discrimination, and whether they are part of european political parties or european alliances of political parties or not. as mr berthu said in his minority opinion, i fear that the new system will create all kinds of discrimination. i also regret that the amendment tabled by the union for a europe of nations group, which would have transferred responsibility to the conference of presidents rather than to the bureau, was rejected because it would have provided a more solid guarantee of pluralism and participation. i voted against the report.
in writing. - (pt) we have recently witnessed a number of crises involving food and livestock, such as madness and foot-and-mouth disease, which illustrate the need to raise food safety standards. appropriate legislation covering all stages of food production and processing, ensuring that consumers receive all relevant information and requiring the establishment of official control systems ensuring compliance with legislation and the prosecution of those who violate the legislation should be adopted. the use of food and feed must be safe for human and animal health. security must be the most important factor - more important than commercial purposes, both in terms of economic benefits and trade facilitation. the abolition of internal frontiers and the gradual liberalisation of trade have created a lax climate, leading to less investment in technical resources (such as reference laboratories and research centres) and human resources (such as vocational training). this has to stop. the regulation is part of the same overall effort as other regulations in the white paper on food safety, setting out a number of common objectives in the area of food safety and common sanctions at european level. in other words, it provides for consequences without calling into question either the underlying production model or liberalisation. the proposals in the report are flawed, despite a number of welcome suggestions such as the use of the same ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) since the mid-1990s, the eu has adopted a growing number of normative acts on food and feed health and safety issues in response to growing consumer concerns. monitoring and inspection have played a crucial role in this response. we still have a long way to go. as the rapporteur emphasizes, there is a need for stricter rules and a common legal system applicable to all official surveillance. the aim is to increase safety, both for consumers and producers, and this report is another step in the right direction for food safety, particularly in the area of food and feed. i am aware that this is a subject which has long been a priority for the european union and i can therefore support the rapporteur's amendment. these measures will bring great benefits to consumers.
in writing. - (pt) the the question dealt with in the report is a difficult one because of its historical aspects and its far-reaching implications. we are strongly opposed to counterfeiting and piracy and we want to see rules introduced to promote the use of inventions and discoveries which all people should enjoy in these free and fair times. the first consideration is therefore the protection of intellectual property rights. should authors' rights, trademarks and patents be treated in the same way? while we are opposed to the misappropriation and commercialisation of human knowledge and human heritage, we recognise the difficulty of striking a balance between the legitimate rights of property and the social and common benefits of the subject in question. at least that's the theory. while the mechanisms for protecting these rights cannot stop trafficking and abuse, they must not be so lenient as to enable or even encourage piracy and counterfeiting. an example is port wine and other designations of origin of this type, which should be established and preserved, since they represent a heritage which is universal and therefore local and national. in the context of artificial liberalisation, it can have very serious economic, social and cultural consequences and a detrimental effect on health. the rapporteur has been cautious and it is better to be on the safe side on this issue. we have nevertheless voted against the report because certain amendments were rejected - and this is certainly not a sign of caution - particularly those proposals which deal with 'federalist' tendencies.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted in favour of the resolution, as i am naturally in favour of promoting new technical requirements and processes which actively contribute to the adoption of measures to limit emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter. the aim of the proposal is to strengthen eu requirements on the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from heavy-duty vehicles (engine-ignition engines in vehicles fuelled with natural gas or automotive gas). the proposal for a decision is therefore another important step towards promoting sustainable development, which the eu is championing. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is not a new one, because it is not a new one. the rules are not clear and no feasibility studies have been carried out, especially in relation to certain monitoring methods. we must launch a campaign to raise awareness of the problem as soon as possible, in cooperation with those involved.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the drug problem is not simply a problem of the drug trade. in 2001, the commission agreed to take action to combat trafficking at european level in the light of the crossborder problems associated with drugs. the final agreement made major changes to the commission's original proposal, such as the introduction of new sanctions more in line with those laid down in the un conventions on drugs, as opposed to the limited definitions proposed by the commission. we welcome the fact that personal use of drugs is not criminalised, even though the issue is not dealt with as thoroughly as we might have wished. we are opposed to the european arrest warrant, and that is the explanation for our final vote.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the italian presidency was able to reach an agreement on minimum standards for the fight against drugs at european level. the main objections - both in the european parliament and in the council - came from the netherlands, where the consumption and sale of small quantities of soft drugs is permitted. it is therefore understandable that the oostlander report proposes that the council framework decision be accepted in the version presented without amendments, since the text was adopted unanimously after a year of negotiations. that has not prevented me from voting in favour of the proposed measures. i would like to highlight two of these measures, which involve the prohibition of the trade, cultivation and sale of opium, cocaine and hashish, and the prohibition of the manufacture of synthetic precursors when the purpose of the manufacture is the illicit production of drugs. application of the principle of subsidiarity allows member states to use the framework decision to sanction personal consumption, but does not oblige them to do so, thus respecting the different national legal and criminal systems of the member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) after many years of discussion in the council, an agreement was reached in november on the establishment of minimum rules for the fight against drugs at european level, and this agreement has now been submitted once again to the european parliament for its consideration. all forms of illicit trafficking, cultivation and sale of opium, cocaine and hemp should be punishable, and the manufacture of synthetic precursors should be prohibited when the purpose is the illicit production of drugs. on the other hand, drug-related activities for personal use only, as defined by national law, are not covered by the framework decision. this means that member states can, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, make personal consumption a criminal offence if they so wish, but the framework decision does not oblige them to do so. illegal drug-related activities shall be punishable by a minimum of one to three years' imprisonment and the incitement, complicity and attempted commission of any of these offences shall be punishable. i regret, however, (and all the indications are that this is the result of pressure from the netherlands) that there is no more focus on judicial cooperation and expulsion. i voted for the motion.
in writing. - (pt) the this report must be seen in the context of the proposal to gradually develop a genuinely integrated management system for external border control in the draft european constitution. although the report contains some contradictions due to the transnational perspective - the report supports the role of the commission in the agency - it correctly states that the surveillance of national borders must remain a matter for the sovereign competence of the member states. one of the more positive aspects of the report is the criticism of the proposal to leave the task of deporting immigrants to the agency. what is being proposed is basically to create an agency with the responsibilities that the member states currently have, which will highlight the aspect known as 'outside europe' and help to eradicate immigration and expel immigrants. i accept that there must be cooperation between national bodies to combat networks exploiting immigrants, trafficking in human beings, organised crime and money laundering. however, mechanisms for this purpose already exist and there is no need to establish new instruments which are entirely within the competence of the national authorities and which fall within the sovereign competence of the member states. it is not a question of creating new agencies, but of changing existing policies. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - (pt) due to the increase in external borders in air, sea and land that will have to be monitored after the enlargement of may 2004, the eu needs an effective system for the management of external borders, in particular to combat international terrorism and organised crime, illegal immigration, trafficking in arms, drugs and human beings and to combat maritime crime. i therefore support the creation of a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders. it was in this context that i proposed - and parliament adopted the proposal in november - that when the next financial perspective is negotiated, community programmes should be established to support the re-establishment of defence, in particular a programme exclusively aimed at developing equipment for the protection of the external borders of the european union. in view of the intergovernmental nature of border control and in the light of the experience gained by each member state in the performance of this task, i believe that each member state should be represented on the agency's board of directors in order to ensure that the agency can benefit from the skills of each country and the knowledge that each has acquired in practice at its own borders. since this question is not dealt with in the text, i have had to vote against the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the idea of creating a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, which is expected to start on 1 january 2005, was born out of the overwhelming need to strengthen the management of control at the external borders, which - and this should be taken into account - now cover 6,000 km in length. the enlargement of the european union must also be taken into account. i disagree with the rapporteur's view that the agency should have a 'more community-like' character, but i agree with the view expressed by the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy that intergovernmental action on border control should be maintained. this is in line with the commission communication - without prejudice to a system of majority voting in the agency (for operational reasons). on the one hand, this is a result of the community legal system - and the present distribution of powers - but on the other hand, the experience gained by the member states in solving these tasks (whether in air and sea or on land or in all three) has improved the possibilities for safeguarding mechanisms. it is therefore appropriate that the management board be composed of one member from each member state and two members from the commission. i have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - (pt) the as everyone knows, at the barcelona european council member states committed themselves to removing the obstacles to women's participation in the labour market and to aim to provide childcare for at least 90% of all children from three years of age up to the age of compulsory schooling and for at least 33% of all children under three by the end of 2010. it was emphasised that financial support was needed to establish and/or operate high quality childcare facilities at affordable prices. how can this be reconciled with cuts in social spending or with the closure of a large proportion of childcare facilities in the enlargement countries? there is no point in giving families additional support, guarantees or tax benefits unless the necessary infrastructure is in place. unfortunately, our proposal to extend childcare facilities to all children up to the age of compulsory schooling by the end of 2010 was also rejected. we must also stress the need for structures to support the elderly and dependent people, improving the rhythm of time in cities (in particular opening hours for services, shops, transport, etc.) and the need for integrated and humane housing and urban planning. the report also calls for shorter working hours, a change of attitude towards a more equitable distribution of family responsibilities and ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) since the 1990s, the council has undertaken a number of actions to reconcile work and family life, which has made it a very topical issue and has consequently declared 2004 the international year of the family. the bastos report states that everyone should be able to choose whether to work or stay at home. if they decide to work, they must be able to reconcile work with the needs of the family, whether children or the elderly, who are increasingly part of the family structure. i could not agree more with this principle and i therefore welcome not only mrs bastos' call on the commission to assess the state of play of family-work-life balance policies in both the present member states and the acceding countries, but also her emphasis on measures to be taken to support the family. they include financial aid for childcare and education, service vouchers for the employment of a domestic helper for families with disabled children and vouchers to help low-income families with at least three children to support.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in line with the proposal i made in the relevant committee, i particularly welcome the incorporation of the framework concept of family-friendly policies and the guideline to follow tax, taxation and tariff policies in public services which take account of the family and the larger family units without discriminating against them. the recognition in the report of the social and economic value of family and domestic work is also important, as it is often overlooked and rejected, either through ingrained prejudice or simply lack of interest, resulting in prejudice against individuals and in real inequalities. i also welcome the adoption of the amendment i tabled against changing the concept of the family. it would be both misunderstood and outside the competence of parliament to change this concept. the family, which is a secular, sociological and anthropological reality and is also deeply rooted, must not be confused with individual choices which result in other situations and which are not within the concept of the family. i think that we should also stress the need to develop specific forms of support for large families, handicapped children or multiple births and also the idea that the member states should develop different forms of cooperation and networks for the exchange of good practice. i congratulate mrs bastos once again on her excellent work and the enormous progress which this report has made. it will become a standard for family policy in the european parliament.
in writing. - (pt) the it is a positive report in which the rapporteur divides women belonging to minority groups into disabled women, immigrant women and roma women. as regards women with disabilities, it calls for the directive on a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation to be transposed into national law and for access to education, employment and vocational training to be ensured in the normal environment. it also encourages the development of women's autonomy and the promotion of their participation in political life and decision-making. the report also calls for the integration of the gender dimension in policies, programmes and actions to combat racism, discrimination and social exclusion. it called on the member states to do everything possible to ensure the effective implementation of the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, and in particular to ensure that immigrant women are able to participate in political life and decision-making. as regards roma women, the report draws the attention of the commission and the member states concerned to the need to ensure the effective implementation of policies implemented at eu and national level to improve the economic, social and political situation of roma women. the last aspect is the most important because of enlargement. the rest of the report is essentially a re-emergence of earlier proposals and decisions. there is still a need for... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the rapporteur has drawn up a report on women belonging to minority groups, in particular women with disabilities, immigrant women and roma women. the report contains interesting perspectives which deserve everyone's attention. these are problems which i am aware of and which i sincerely hope will be solved. in this context, i must express my particular concern about all forms of violence (not just domestic violence) to which women with disabilities are subjected and the lack of respect for the individual rights of immigrant women. as i broadly agree with the content of mrs martínez-orozco's report, i voted in favour of it. nevertheless, i must point out that the problems i have mentioned are not limited to women alone. these are situations that occur across the board and also affect men.
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his report. in other words, in addition to the attention to be paid to the health of mothers and babies during and after pregnancy or to basic precautions to prevent the spread of the aids virus, the text - especially with the amendments tabled by the committee - expresses a clear vision of women's freedom and rights, especially as regards women who need all the means of self-determination and family planning. the report recommends the adoption of a policy aimed at improving access to contraception and facilitating abortion by improving the conditions under which it is carried out. there are two aspects of the text that can be criticised. firstly, it does not propose preventive measures to limit the number of births or to improve the sanitary conditions during these births, and it does even less to promote an alternative to the use of general contraception, which is regarded as a fundamental right. secondly, the report includes abortion in a number of measures which need to be financed and to which the european union is invited to contribute, without taking the trouble to find out what the policy is in some member states in this area. that is why i voted against the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) almost 10 years after the un conference in cairo, this own-initiative report, which gives an assessment, seems to be timely, and the rapporteur underlines this by calling for the debate to be held on 8 march, international women's day, particularly as the report deals with women's reproductive health. the report is also timely for two reasons. firstly, we have just returned from the 7th acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and we thought that the report adopted in this forum on poverty-related diseases should have included a point on the termination of unwanted pregnancies and the need for it to take place in safe conditions. secondly, as a portuguese citizen, because the reports on this subject are in line with a very lively debate currently taking place in portugal, in which a rightwing majority is obstructing the debate and serious, human decisions by using arguments and means that are truly unworthy, not to say criminal. although this is not the only subject of the report, we must use this explanation of vote to underline the rapporteur's statement that abortion should not be regarded as a method of birth control, but also her call for 'the possibility of having a legally and medically safe procedure carried out'. anyone who argues otherwise is becoming more and more isolated and shares the views of us president bush and his mexico city policy.
in writing. - (pt) the as has become the custom in this house, this report, like any other report on reproductive health in the developing countries, must be seen in terms of both what is said outright and what is implied. i regret that parliament has not adopted our proposal. the aim was to clarify the concept of 'sexual and reproductive health', our guidelines in this area or our concern to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, including hiv/aids, and to guarantee the safe conditions women need during pregnancy, childbirth and postnatal care, in other words to protect the health of mothers and babies during and after pregnancy. instead, the confusion surrounding action in this area only serves to arouse suspicion. i also regret the desire to commit the eu to promoting abortion internationally, as evidenced by the fact that another of our amendments was not adopted. finally, as i said during the debate, i must dissociate myself from a tendency-driven report which does not include many of the main objectives of the international conference in cairo. it is about economic growth, urban planning, the environment, employment, making fathers jointly responsible for women's sexual health and education in general, in addition to education specifically concentrated on sexual and reproductive health. i voted against it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the main objective of this report is to contribute to improving the quality of eu legislation. it is an objective that cannot be overemphasized or pushed too far. the rapporteur believes that there is a need to go beyond the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking because not all the wishes of the european parliament have been met. we need clear, precise, simple and effective eu legislation, and that is the reason for this agreement. however, we must not forget that the european parliament has direct democratic legitimacy because its members are directly elected by the european citizens who are most affected by eu decisions. the zeal for legislation that we have seen, particularly in the last decade, means a growing desire for parliament to play a greater role in the legislative framework. i therefore support the rapporteur's idea that parliament should be more actively involved in the areas of co-regulation and self-regulation. the third report was also adopted unanimously in committee. the report does, however, take away the flexibility and closeness which the interinstitutional agreement is trying to achieve by appropriating the means necessary to implement these measures. i cannot support the proposed ex ante and ex post controls and therefore have neither voted for nor against.
- thank you very much, mr zabell. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m. until the commission's announcement at 5.00 p.m.)
- the next item is the commission communication on a new generation of education and training programmes 2007-13.
- this meeting is adjourned.
mr president, the commissioner, no doubt by mistake, has not referred to article 15 of the same regulation, which is binding on the derogation from the system which currently continues to preserve the azores' waters. and that date is 1 august or, alternatively, the entry into force of implementing regulations on fishing effort, which have not yet entered into force. that article cannot be revoked at will. the only legal services which have so far spoken on the subject, as recorded in the minutes of the council meeting of 19 february, which were those of the council, have said unequivocally that this date must be respected. and i would like to ask the commissioner what right he has to want to repeal an article which has no second possible interpretation and which defends the territorial waters of the azores until 31 july?
i am grateful to you for the explanations you have just given us. the commissioner believes that prestige designations are not just arbitrary labels on bottles, that they are prestige designations that have been established by art, technique and time. and yet we have been told that these names can be used by third countries provided they meet a whole range of requirements, a set of requirements which the commissioner has just mentioned. does the commissioner really believe that these requirements which he has just set out will protect us against tampering, forgery and fraud? i do not believe you, mr commissioner! and i believe that the door is now open to a large demarcated region, the first in the world, the port wine region, which accounts for one fifth of portuguese exports of agricultural products, being seriously affected in the future. i am sorry to disagree with the commissioner, but i am not sure that the requirements and guarantees he gives us through this regulation will really protect the quality of these traditional names.
mr president, in accordance with the basic principles of the cap reform adopted last june, common rules have been established for direct support schemes for farmers. the proposal for a regulation therefore contains these principles for the olive oil, tobacco and cotton sectors, and our colleague joseph daul's report, which i am now following through on his work, deals with these principles. i shall, however, concentrate on the consequences of this proposal for portugal. as regards olive oil, the commission seems to ignore the planting of 30,000 hectares of new olive groves eligible for production aid which the council authorised in 1998. portugal has drawn up a planting programme for these 30 000 hectares covering the period 2000 to 2006 and its implementation is proceeding as planned. the commission's proposal for a revision of the programme is designed to put an end to this programme and to the expectations of producers. as regards tobacco, the commission's proposal to cut off all aid will lead to a sudden abandonment of this crop in portugal. this abandonment of production will have a strong negative impact not only on agricultural employment but also on the processing industry. as for cotton, the cultivation of which has expanded significantly in recent years, the commission proposal reduces the area under cultivation by about 30%, which, combined with the insufficiency of aid linked to production, makes this crop unattractive and unable to become an alternative. mr president, once again we are faced with a commission proposal which takes no account of the specific features of portuguese agriculture, as indeed of other regional farms, nor of the risks of abandonment of agricultural activity, nor of the social problems caused by unemployment which are associated with it. it is another penalisation of our farmers' incomes which is unfair and which we cannot ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, in portugal most farmers are concerned about the commission's proposals for reforming the common organizations of the market in mediterranean products: olive oil, tobacco and cotton. these are bad proposals, either because they continue to discriminate against products with mediterranean specificities, which are always poorly treated by the cap, or because they encourage the abandonment of production, with the disconnection of aid and without any increase in appropriations and market regulation mechanisms that would allow the slightest correction of any injustices in the distribution of aid between countries, productions and producers. the stated objective of the cap reform last july is to achieve budgetary savings, more specifically €113 million of annual savings by 2013, and to aim at liberalising agriculture in the wto negotiations. that is an unacceptable position. mediterranean production is found, for the most part, in cohesion countries and the least-favoured regions, incorporating a strong labour-intensive component such as the harvesting of olive or tobacco leaves, and is often the main source of income for these regions. they therefore deserved fair treatment from the commission. it is unacceptable that the social and environmental consequences are not taken into account, particularly in mountain regions and other lessfavoured areas, as in portugal, where alternatives to these olive oil, tobacco and cotton crops are scarce and where fruit, vegetable and wine production is experiencing serious difficulties. it is unacceptable that the commission should not take account of the specificities of the portuguese situation, not even the decision of 1998 when it approved the planting of 30 000 new hectares of olive groves eligible for aid to modernise the sector. it is unacceptable that it should end the refunds for preserves and the national control agencies, insisting on a policy which undermines the quality of olive oil by not prohibiting mixtures with other vegetable oils and by allowing misleading labelling of products other than olive oil. the proposal is equally serious for the tobacco sector, which is losing part of its current aid under conditions that threaten the continuity of production and industry, resulting in unemployment and increased imports from abroad. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, we are aware of the serious socioeconomic problems facing the european union, which are causing distrust among the citizens of most member states, particularly in my own country, portugal, where unemployment is still rising, where there is an economic recession and where the gap with the european union average is still widening, without any reversal by the commission in the face of the deficit problem. it is therefore essential to change the policies responsible for this situation, and it is important that the commission and the council clarify three issues which i consider essential and urgent. firstly, are these institutions ready to make the necessary adjustments to the economic and monetary policy guidelines immediately with a view to replacing the stability pact with a pact for social progress and employment, in line with the objectives of full employment, economic development and economic and social cohesion, in order to ensure more public investment, more and better employment, greater social inclusion? secondly, will they demand that the european central bank lower interest rates to support economic recovery and exports, a crucial issue for weaker economies like portugal? thirdly, will they approve a moratorium on liberalisation, review the lisbon strategy and carry out a thorough analysis of the consequences of what has already been achieved in the various economic and social sectors, in particular in terms of employment, quality and universality of the service provided, degree of user satisfaction and further democratization of the operation of services and their management, also taking into account the difficulties and shortcomings of most enlargement countries? without these measures, it is not possible to implement a policy of economic recovery and sustained demand in the short and medium term. a revaluation of production and labour is therefore required to promote economic development, employment and social cohesion, based on a sustained increase in national and community public investment, in particular in basic infrastructure, education, skills and vocational training, research and innovation, the environment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. these are the real priorities for which the citizens of our countries expect to have an answer before the european elections on 13 june.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i could refer to the opening remarks of mr poettering, welcoming the merits of the irish presidency and welcoming the capacity shown by a country which is not one of the great ones. but this shows us just how wrong it is to end the rotating presidency, the rotation of the presidency. i also like the quote by victor hugo, here quoted by my colleague baron crespo, that "the future belongs to the brave". i often compare the process of european construction to the epic of discovery, about which the great 16th-century portuguese poet camões said that we were travelling "on seas never before sailed". and we have to have, indeed, that openness of mind, that boldness and that capacity for adventure. but we must be careful that the ship does not sink, that the crew is informed and moral and that they do not riot. and so i see with concern that, after a period of some secrecy, it may be announced that we may have a hasty end to the igc. i believe that this could be a breath of fresh air for those who want to campaign in the european elections on the basis of euroscepticism, since public opinion is at this stage very sleepy and we still do not know what was actually achieved in the first phase of the igc under the italian presidency. many people talk about the question of qualified majority voting, but i remember that this was not the only issue. the composition of the commission, the question of the presidency of the union, the definition of certain competences such as fisheries and the conservation of marine resources, the fundamental principle of the equality of states, the clarification of the precise scope of the principle of the primacy of community law, transparency and publicity in the legislative functioning and in the legislative deliberations of the council, the preamble and the express reference to the legacy of christianity, the limitation of flexibility clauses or the bridge clauses, that is, the agenda is wide, and therefore i support and understand the appeal of the president of the portuguese republic, whose europeanism is well known, who a week ago asked for more time for the negotiations on the european constitution. he criticised the fact that things were being done under pressure and asked for more time and for us to concentrate on the immediate problems of the lisbon strategy, enlargement and the negotiations on the new community support framework.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal is of particular importance in two respects, because it not only increases safety at sea but also helps to reduce pollution. the proposal for a regulation is also important because of the types of vessels it covers, because it extends its scope to vessels operating nationally, that is, not only internationally, within the eu. the commission has done a good job and i would like to thank it for that. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism proposes in this report that the proposal for a regulation be adopted. these are measures which may at first sight appear very technical but which, on closer examination, prove to be essential if the objective is to be achieved. it must be remembered that safe transport not only by sea but also by air and road has always been one of the eu's highest priorities. the legislation adopted over the last decade reflects this. for this reason, but also because the content of the proposal is very much to my liking, i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) this report is a subject close to my heart. i have long called for the serious development of rail transport, particularly because i believe that it is a very useful alternative to road transport, which has reached its peak. the agreement which the rapporteur proposes to adopt goes exactly in that direction. the conclusion by the european community of the agreement on the accession of the european community to the convention concerning international carriage by rail (cotif) is therefore essential to promote, improve and facilitate international rail transport. this agreement is also important because of the technical and legal facilitations it provides. another positive aspect of joining cotif is that the european community does not have to contribute to the organisation's budget, even though this means that the community cannot take part in its decision-making process. i believe that the signing of this agreement will be a giant step forward for the development of the railways and i have been fighting for this for many years.
in writing. - (pt) in view of the fact that i agree, albeit in the short term, with the criteria of the european council and with the progress made in the implementation of the stabilisation and association process, to the full integration into the european union of the countries of the western balkans, namely albania, bosnia-herzegovina, the republic of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and serbia and montenegro, including kosovo, and that this report aims to establish european partnerships in order to facilitate the preparation of these countries for full integration into the european union, i voted in favour. i have done so with all the more conviction because two essential references have been added. the first concerns the mandatory consultation of the countries concerned and the second concerns the financial resources to be made available to support these countries in the implementation of the priorities and objectives set and which are within the existing financial perspective. it should be added that the report calls for the underlying legal basis to be adjusted to ensure the financing of the priorities and conditions of the european partnerships and for the european parliament to be informed in future of any adjustments to the european partnerships so that it can closely monitor implementation and its results.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the objectives of the commission's proposal could not be clearer, namely to remove the crossborder tax obstacles which naturally particularly hinder the crossborder mobility of multinational companies within the eu, and to enable a policy of business restructuring and localisation which promotes tax reductions or, from another point of view, greater tax benefits. this is also clear from the common tax rules implemented in the context of the statute of the european company, which are intended to ensure that their activities are not hampered by 'discriminatory' tax rules or by restrictions or distortions resulting from the tax provisions of the individual member states. at a time when there is so much talk of tax relief for labour, tax relief for capital is being given free rein. the central issue is indeed the sovereignty of the member states in the field of taxation and the danger of a shift in the tax burden. however, the possibility of using taxation as an instrument for controlling and monitoring the operations of companies is also relevant, not least in the context of mergers - in this case crossborder mergers - and business restructuring among the major economic groups in the eu. the main purpose of this directive is to extend its scope, which puts the financial interests of the member states at risk, and we therefore reject it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in line with the objectives set out in the lisbon process, which aims to increase the crossborder mobility of businesses, the commission has put forward a proposal aimed at eliminating the obstacles associated with the taxation of businesses in the internal market (cross-border tax obstacles). directive 90/434/eec (the so-called merger directive) already provides in some cases a solution to a common taxation system for mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and exchanges of shares concerning companies in different member states, but it is necessary to improve the directive and to extend its scope. the new proposal aims to amend the merger directive in order to reduce the occurrence of international double taxation when companies are involved in business restructuring involving companies from different member states. these specifically targeted measures aim to address the most pressing practical tax problems faced by internationally active companies until a common tax base has been established. that is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in line with the objectives set out in the lisbon process, which aims to increase the crossborder mobility of businesses, the commission has put forward a proposal aimed at eliminating the obstacles associated with the taxation of businesses in the internal market (cross-border tax obstacles). directive 90/434/eec (the so-called merger directive) already provides in some cases a solution to a common taxation system for mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and exchanges of shares concerning companies in different member states, but it is necessary to improve the directive and to extend its scope. the new proposal aims to amend the merger directive in order to reduce the occurrence of international double taxation when companies are involved in business restructuring involving companies from different member states. these specifically targeted measures aim to address the most pressing practical tax problems faced by internationally active companies until a common tax base has been established. that is why i voted in favour.
- the council's proposal has modified the commission and parliament's proposals in a number of respects:- it has reduced the period during which a citizen of one member state may reside freely in another from six to three months, thereby maintaining the present situation. - it extends the duration of marriages or registered partnerships to at least three years, provided that, with some exceptions, the right to reside is not lost in the event of separation or divorce. - the concept of family does not include undocumented cohabitation, but only registered partnerships if the host country equates them with marriage. the directive does not apply to direct descendants and parents of non-eu citizens. - as a new criteria for expulsion, an unreasonable burden is imposed on the host country's social security system. we have therefore put forward four proposals to solve these problems, but unfortunately they have all been rejected.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) at the first reading of the common position i had to vote against it, regretting that the extreme proposals which a majority, especially of the left, had already adopted in committee, distorted the report and removed it from the rapporteur's much more balanced line. the european parliament then chose to go far beyond what was necessary in this field. the commission has chosen to accept most of the amendments tabled by the european parliament at this second reading, although it has not done so in the case of family policy, which is clearly outside the competence of the european union, which i welcome. i also maintain the other comments and reservations which i expressed at the first reading. as regards the amendments tabled by the communist left, i voted against.
in writing. - (pt) although i am in favour of a programme in this area, i must regret that it is systematically stated that it is not possible to increase substantially the support for youth organizations. i therefore understand the rapporteur's attitude to the council's rejection and her desire to avoid the programme not coming into force as planned, but i must nevertheless express my criticism of the council's unacceptable attitude which is detrimental to the role of youth organisations. it is not a good idea to reduce support for youth organisations which are very important for the development of young people because they involve them in society and extend democracy. not increasing the aid is the same as not wanting to increase the participation of young people, and we think that is a shame.
in writing. - (pt) this report is of particular importance for the youth field. the aim is to implement a community action programme to promote bodies active at european level in the field of youth and, more specifically, to establish, by adopting an action programme, a basic act for the community support which has been granted for a long time in this field. i would like to point out that the budget for the programme has been increased by 13% as a result of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on 24 november. it should also be noted that despite its constant reticence, in part or in spirit, the council has adopted 13 of the 16 amendments adopted by parliament at first reading and subsequently accepted by the commission. i have voted in favour of the proposals as a whole, in agreement with the unanimous opinion expressed in the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report is a follow-up to the prets report. this is another proposal for a legislative decision in the field of youth, education and vocational training, and it is supported by all the members of the committee, as was the previous report. the question here is education and training, which also deserve our attention. the council reached a unanimous position after taking account of the opinion of the european parliament. the amendments made by the council to the commission's proposal have resulted in a clearer and more coherent text and an increase in the programme's budget. i agree with the rapporteur's remarks and have therefore voted in favour. i have given my support to all the amendments which give substance to the common position.
in writing. - i support this report, which aims to implement a community action programme to promote bodies active at european level in the field of education and, more specifically, to establish, by adopting an action programme, a basic instrument for the community support which has been granted for a long time in this field. the rapporteur recommends that parliament approve the common position with some amendments of a purely technical nature, mainly because the political agreement reached by the council (culture) was overtaken by the concessions made by the finance ministers during the budgetary consultation, which was concluded later. however, since the council's official position is that the agreement reached by the ministers of culture forms the basis of the common position, parliament must therefore amend the council's common position in order to bring the agreement of the ministers of culture into line with the agreement reached between parliament and the council on budgetary matters. since there is general agreement on the common position and since the amendments tabled by the rapporteur at second reading are technical in nature, i have voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) continued production aid for olive oil, tobacco and cotton is essential if widespread production cuts are to be avoided and if the specific characteristics of mediterranean agriculture are to be taken into account. the commission's proposal to decouple production aid, which the european parliament now supports, is unacceptable and sends a bad signal before the discussions in the agriculture council. the proposal will have very unfortunate socioeconomic consequences and will promote desertification, especially in the less favoured eu member states such as portugal. the proposal particularly affects portugal, where a ridiculous 360 hectares of eligible area is retained for cotton despite the potential for exploitation in alqueva and the conversion of dryland to irrigated farming, and where, for olive oil, the agreed financing package and the method of development in the olive sector, despite the 113 million euros which it is hoped to save, are counteracting the modernisation of portuguese olive growing and the new planting rights obtained in 1998. this would require an increase in the appropriations for portugal of some eur 20 million. the most serious, however, are the devastating consequences of the massive cessation of production which the proposal will entail, as shown by several studies. that is why we voted against.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main change is the eu ban on mixing olive oil with other oils of fatty substances, which is very important to ensure the quality of the oil. the second is the prohibition on the use of the term 'olive oil' or any other reference or image which recalls this product, olive trees or parts thereof, on the label or in the consumer information given on all fatty substances, which is contrary to unfair competition. it is also important to introduce compulsory indication of the origin of the oil on the basis of the place of harvest and to maintain production refunds for preserved fish and vegetables. it was essential that the council followed the european parliament's opinion in this area. the council does not, however, propose effective market regulation mechanisms and accepts the cessation of production aid. we regret that the proposal of our group, which sought to maintain at least part of the production-related aid, namely that linked to the actual production and not to the area, has been rejected. i am glad that our proposal to maintain the current control bodies has been adopted, but i am sorry that the others have been rejected.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i support the amendments which seek to improve the classification of types of oil, to prohibit the blending of olive oil with other fatty substances, to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of olives on the labelling and, in this connection, to define the origin of the oil as the place where it is grown and harvested and not the place where it is pressed and processed (which leads to abuse of image and illegal exploitation of brands), to increase the transparency of the inward processing procedure in order to avoid that this mechanism leads to olive oil produced from olives and oil from third countries being labelled and sold as eu products and to increase the basic price which automatically triggers the withdrawal from storage.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. we are dealing with a proposal for a regulation to replace regulation (eec) no 827/68, which expires in november 2004. the aim is to improve the classification of types of oil, to prohibit mixtures of olive oil and other fatty substances, to make it compulsory to indicate the place of origin of olives on the labelling and, in this connection, to define the origin of the oil as the place where it is grown and harvested rather than the place where it is pressed and processed, and to increase the transparency of the inward processing procedure. it is also proposed that the term 'trade organisations' be replaced by the more correct term 'olive producers' and that producer organisations should not be given the task of controlling and monitoring the market, but should remain under the current national control bodies in the olive and agricultural sectors. clearer and more transparent legislation is the demand that has been made for some time by all olive growers. we hope that the results will live up to expectations.
in writing. - (pt) there was a crying need for this recommendation, which is the result of an initiative which my group took, although i do not agree with all its wording. it is also too late, given that since january 2002 several hundred people, including children, from some 40 countries have been detained at the us military base in guantánamo, under unacceptable conditions and without any rights or guarantees whatsoever. the us authorities must put an end as soon as possible to this flagrant violation of the most elementary rights and human dignity, which is contrary to human rights norms and international law, in particular the right to a fair trial and the prohibition of arbitrary detention. the governments of the eu countries must change their de facto acceptance of this unacceptable situation as soon as possible and adopt a clear and firm position condemning it and demanding that the us authorities immediately ensure that the detainees are brought to justice in accordance with the rules and standards of international law.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken the view that the situation in the region is worsening, and that the situation in the region is worsening. the tone of the report not only sharpens the divisions in europe over the war against iraq, but also the antipathy towards the united states. i too believe that 'the transatlantic relationship is invaluable and irreplaceable and could be a unique contribution to a better world, as the european council expressed, but only if fundamental human rights - such as the right to a fair trial and the prohibition of arbitrary detention - are clearly respected as universal and final and remain at the heart of the values and common interests that the eu and the us uphold'. it is clear, however, that the report makes the demands it makes on the united states because the terror suspects are being held in guantanamo, a comfortable distance from europe. i am therefore more opposed to the anti-american intent that is emerging than to the fundamental principles to which the report refers, which i have always defended and still do.
co-rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, we look at hungary with the respect and esteem due to a people who expect to find within our union not only respect for their national independence and identity but also the collective security and economic prosperity that was denied them by the communist dictatorship, which subjugated them, like so many others, for almost forty years. we must, however, recognize that the historic step of enlargement raises legitimate questions and fears on both sides of the challenge of the reunification of two worlds which, unfortunately, have experienced very different levels of development in recent decades. and that will inevitably accentuate the differences between the richer and the less prosperous regions, and will lead to an increase in the population living in the less favoured regions. true, we must admit it. but it is also true that the step to be taken in may 2004 is of the greatest political significance, in that it represents a formidable proof of the vitality of all the european countries involved in enlargement when faced with the challenge that history has set them. i hope, mr president, that from now on we will all have the opportunity, both current and new member states, to coordinate our efforts to exercise our common responsibility in the process of european union development. this shared responsibility implies the maintenance, and even the strengthening, of the principle of economic and social cohesion. we see enlargement in this light as a contract of mutual benefit, both for the new countries of the union and for the existing ones whose income levels still justify the allocation of community development aid. in this respect, we take a very positive view of the proposal for the financial perspective for 2007-13 which was presented very recently by the commission in this parliament. it also implies strengthening the quality of democracy in the european institutions, where it is essential to achieve gains in transparency and democratic control, together with a greater and more effective participation of national parliaments in the construction of europe. mr president, commissioner, hungary is one of the countries which has made a great deal of progress towards european union. as was my duty, i followed this development closely. there are still, of course, some problems which hungary will have to solve, but we know the determination of its authorities to meet their commitments in good time. rather than highlighting them now, it seems appropriate to emphasize the success with which this country has faced, over the past few years, the challenges it faced and set out to overcome. mr president, mr commissioner, hungary, like all the other acceding states, will finally take its rightful place as a member of the european union. that is why, as rapporteur for this country, i ask everyone to support our colleague elmar brok's report, which brings to an end years of effort and work and opens a new cycle in the life of the union.
in writing. this report is of enormous importance. it is the strategists, even when they have hidden or disguised their class nature, who are the ones who are denounced by the so-called lisbon strategy. just four topics. first, point 38: the statement that the free movement of workers is the least developed - particularly in contrast to the free movement of capital - is welcome, and the gue/ngl amendment would make this even clearer and more positive. secondly, point 40: the two freedoms of movement are brought into conflict by the management of pension funds by multinational companies, which is highly desirable. by who? in the service of what kind of economy? the speculative one?! thirdly, point 10: the congratulations 'on the proposal to continue liberalization and the opening up of markets in other sectors (especially water supply and postal services) ' make it clear that we feel the opposite of congratulations and also strong support for the amendments of our group and the author, and that we must be very careful about the commission's alleged 'neutrality' as regards the ownership status of water. fourth, paragraph 9: it would be written, simply and simply, in an antagonistic way: 'the effective and efficient functioning of the internal market should develop the social dimension rather than hinder it'. it's just, though far from everything!
mr president, the extension of life expectancy that exists as a result of the scientific and social achievements of the 20th century cannot now be considered as a burden for society in the 21st century. the elderly have the right to live with dignity, to have access to health care and other services, regardless of their economic and social conditions, and this is being called into question in several countries, such as my own, portugal, with a neoliberalism that is trying to impose itself in a wide range of areas, including health, giving priority to competition and competitiveness, calling into question quality public services, devaluing people and their rights. the fact that the majority of older people in the european union are women - more than 63% of those aged 75 to 84 and 72% of those aged over 85 are women - means that they will be particularly affected by the problems of health and long-term care systems, both as carers and as those receiving care. in turn, the persistence of inequalities in women's wages and pensions makes them particularly vulnerable to the consequences of the dismantling of public health services and the lack of care for the elderly. it should be noted that women make up the majority of the 55 million people at risk of poverty in the european union of 15 and of the many millions in the enlargement countries. we therefore strongly criticise the fact that member states are increasing the share of health costs borne by patients, whether in prevention or in treatment, medicines, palliative care and other areas. this situation is undermining the solidarity of health systems and contributing to the growing social exclusion of disadvantaged groups in society, who increasingly have difficulty in accessing adequate and high-quality health care. so while i think there are positive aspects to the report, i cannot agree with the insistence on creating an internal market for health services and products, since this will only benefit private bodies, in particular insurance companies, and will put a quality and universal public service at risk. what is needed is more public investment in infrastructure and equipment, in training the necessary technical and specialised staff, in better provision of quality care and assistance to the elderly, particularly in health services, in the creation of home care services, ensuring access to these services for all citizens in all countries of the european union. hence the proposals we have put forward. the involvement of user organisations, health and care services and their employees in the design and implementation of measures is also needed to ensure greater democratization in the operation of services which must be of quality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course first of all like to express my condolences and solidarity to the spanish people and in particular to all my colleagues in spain. in this matter of approving a date for the celebration of the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism, we must bear in mind that it must be a date which the european union can then defend, whether it is a world day or an international day, as the purpose of the paragraph is. i must say that i support this proposal because our president of the european parliament, mr pat cox, at the opening of the session today at 10 a.m., for those of us who were here and were able to pay our respects, has given us the sense and the leave in this matter. he said that the attack was not just an attack on the people of spain. it is an attack in the middle of an electoral process, it is an attack that directly harms democracy and freedom. and it is an attack of this magnitude that for the first time has hit a country in the european union. i think that no one would understand that, by the coincidence of having to vote on this day, we are not marking 11 march by paying tribute to the victims, present and future, and also past victims, but by marking a european date. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, as the author of the motion for a resolution, i ask the house to be patient! i will not argue, but since the debate has been opened i want to clarify some doubts that have been raised here and that i myself have also felt, to be honest. that is why i referred to the speech by the president of the european parliament at the opening of today's sitting. i think he has enough distance, he has enough independence so that we can meet in his words. secondly, as an author, i would like to point out that the vote in committee, although the date of 11 september was the favourite, did not make the committee's plenary. we have every advantage in that there is greater consensus in this house on the choice of the date as well. and i call on the house to agree, at least on our proposal, after which the council will of course have to decide.
in writing. - (pt) under article 23 of the act of accession, the eu may make any amendment to the provisions of the act relating to the common agricultural policy which may prove necessary as a result of changes in eu regulations. in other words, the acts of accession ratified by the 10 countries joining the eu on 1 may 2004 can be amended in the agricultural field by decisions taken by the 15. the result of such regulation is that the situation which already entails discrimination against the acceding countries in the agricultural field is further aggravated for them. it should be noted that direct payments to farmers in the acceding countries were already to be phased in, starting with only 25% of the direct payments of the present member states in the first year. now they are also subject to economic discipline mechanisms, which means that they may be subject to further cuts in agricultural payments. in addition, the new direct payments for energy crops and nuts introduced by the reforms of the cap will be covered by the same phasing-in schemes. the accession countries are no longer subject to land payment derogations, which imply greater discrimination, and this has already led to objections from the czech republic, poland, slovenia and estonia. it's just another... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has proposed adjustments to the accession acts of the 10 new member states to take account of the reforms of the common agricultural policy last year, in particular the introduction of the area payment. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the texts on the reform of the common agricultural policy in their present form do not take account of the outcome of the accession negotiations or of enlargement itself. it is well known that the observer members are dissatisfied with the proposal, as farmers in their member states are discriminated against at the outset, as the direct payments for certain products are graduated over 10 years. however, despite the dissatisfaction of the observer with a number of issues, the rapporteur accepted the commission's proposal without amendments and his position was adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture and rural development. the decision also reflects the fact that the council has already reached agreement on the matter. i voted for it.
in writing. - (pt) i feel i must support this report for the adoption of a proposal which aims to provide the european union with a valid instrument for protecting the interests of an important sector of the european economy, namely the provision of air transport services. the major distortions of international competition in this sector, partly due to the significant subsidies granted by several member states to their own airlines, fully justify the commission's initiative to create a community action instrument based on the model already existing in the private sector. if there is evidence that a particular subsidy is causing undue damage to the eu civil aviation industry, it will be possible to open a hearing and thus clarify the situation so that the foreign companies concerned can be required to pay compensation. the european airlines' scepticism about the effectiveness of this instrument, because it is difficult to prove that airlines from non-eu countries are competing unfairly by setting fares too low, depends entirely on the commission's ability to implement this instrument.
in writing. - (pt) i supported the report because i consider mr nicholson's proposal to be very balanced, as it proposes very few amendments, which should not prevent this important matter from being concluded quickly. the proposal for a regulation on insurance requirements for air carriers and aircraft operators aims to restore some stability to the european aviation insurance market following the events of 11 september 2001 in the united states and the commission's decision not to authorise the renewal of state aid insurance agreements in the eu. the measures proposed by the commission, namely the adoption of legislation binding on air carriers in both the eu and third countries and the establishment of minimum insurance requirements for liability to passengers, baggage, goods, mail and third parties, will be strengthened by the rapporteur's positive contribution.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as i said during the first reading, i welcome the commission's proposal and the excellent work of the rapporteur. electronic exchanges between national authorities and between them and the eu institutions are of vital importance at two levels. at the operational level, it is an important source of information and cooperation for national, local and regional representatives of public administration, thus leading to greater efficiency, while in the context of guaranteeing citizens' rights it facilitates and increases transparency in relations with national and eu public authorities. now that the council has unanimously adopted the common position (including the amendments tabled by parliament at first reading), i hope that the good results achieved by the ida programme (exchange of information between administrations) proposed by the commission will ensure the continuation of the previous programme (ida ii), hereinafter idabc - interoperable provision of pan-european e-government services to public authorities, businesses and citizens. finally, i would stress the importance of extending the benefits of this exchange of information to businesses and citizens, thus fulfilling both the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the eeurope 2005 action plan adopted at the seville european council in june 2002.
in writing. - (pt) i congratulate mr bradbourn on the report he has presented to us and i support it. the work reveals a great deal of technical knowledge in the treatment of a subject of great importance, namely the development of a genuine transeuropean transport network in the context of enlargement. however, i would like to emphasize the following points:- the withdrawal of the recognition of the project as being of european interest should be a matter for the council and parliament;- the need to adopt the list of priority projects in annex iii without amendments;- the importance of developing motorways to the sea, which is important to avoid problems that threaten to arise in the transeuropean transport network, and to implement a realistic change in the transport strategy.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the question raised in portugal and other countries is that of the integration of high-speed lines and their interconnection with the rest of the rail network, providing a uniform access network for the population, ensuring connections with the regions of the country concerned and with other countries and contributing to economic, social and territorial cohesion. therefore, alongside high-speed rail, it is important to complete the work on the modernisation of the national network, with major speed increases, new signals, electrification, expansion of congested sections, automatic control systems, substantial improvements in the quality and functionality of stations and the purchase of rolling stock that can be adapted to different track gauges. the commission proposal is a follow-up to the communication on investing in networks and knowledge for growth and jobs. in portugal, however, while investing in high-speed trains, now part of the quick start package, preparations are being made for the winding-up of bombadier, a highly specialised national company ready to take on this challenge. many of the high-speed rail projects which the council has incorporated into this package are expected to be completed by the time the commission has proposed for the liberalisation of international passenger transport. it would be funny if it were not an example of contradiction, where the dominant is always the least appropriate for the people and always to the detriment of the public service. in my explanation of vote i must stress the absolute need for projects and measures to be assessed in the light of the necessary link between national policies and the transeuropean networks.
in writing. - (pt) i have supported the report on the guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network. it is certainly a strategy which will have a major impact on europe in terms of both growth and employment and which must ensure major progress for the european economy. i agree with the position of the committee of this parliament in supporting the essence of the commission's strategy, but propose important changes concerning greater involvement of the european parliament, particularly in the ongoing evaluation of projects, including the possible withdrawal of the recognition of a project as being of european interest and the appointment of a european coordinator for a transnational project. the proposal that the commission should submit the projects for the so-called motorways of the sea within a year is also very appropriate in my view. in view of the considerable doubts recently expressed about the quick start communication, which selects priority projects where work can be carried out more quickly, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism would be wise to stress that this communication is not binding.
in writing. - (pt) the i can support the report. the aim is to adopt a proposal to exempt from regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 those parts of airports reserved exclusively for small aircraft. the regulation, which entered into force in january 2003, was adopted in the aftermath of the terrible events of 11 september 2001 and was intended to introduce increased security measures for civil aviation, particularly at airports. the amendment concerns in particular airfields for small aircraft and recreational aircraft in the immediate vicinity of airports and is a consequence of the fact that it is inappropriate and expensive to subject these areas to the same safety standards as airports. the commission proposes that, where small aircraft use facilities close to airports, 'demarcated areas' be set up, separated from the other areas. i voted for the report.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of social security. it is an attempt to remove the remaining obstacles to the free movement of workers within the eu.
in writing. - (pt) mrs gillig's report concerns the annual proposal to amend regulations (eec) no 1408/71 and (eec) no 574/72 in order to take account of developments in national social security systems, to integrate changes in national legislation and to take account of the case law of the court of justice of the european communities. the commission proposal is primarily intended to update certain aspects of regulation no 1408/71, in particular as regards non-contributory social cash benefits, following a number of judgments of the court of justice of the european communities. the court of justice of the european communities considers that such derogations from the principle that social security benefits may be exported must be interpreted strictly. in this connection, we must stress the importance of ensuring, in an exceptionally technical field, that the national laws of the member states are respected in the field of social protection, while at the same time we must not forget that the ultimate aim of the desired coordination of these schemes is to ensure a double dimension, namely social security and social assistance throughout the union. it is all the more important in situations involving disabled or particularly dependent people, such as those covered by the amendments in question. genuine cohesion and social integration require this. that is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the commission proposal proposes to abolish the vat exemption for services provided by public postal services. the adoption of the proposal would have an impact not only on suppliers but also on consumers and would, inter alia, lead to higher prices for the services provided. the proposal also has to be seen in the context of the current wave of liberalization of postal services in the eu, and this is linked to the creation of a common vat system. i would remind you that although parliament rejected the proposal for a directive on 18 december 2003, the commission has insisted on maintaining the proposal. the rapporteur put forward a number of compromise amendments to the directive, but even if they were to mitigate its effects, they did not call into question the very logic of the vat system or the post-liberalisation directive.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the vat exemption to postal services provided by public postal operators. the report was referred back to the committee responsible in accordance with the rules of procedure and it is the new report that is being put to the vote today. the commission proposes to abolish the vat exemption for public postal services, so that they are treated on the same footing as services provided by private competitors, which are subject to full vat. the commission therefore proposes that all consignments over 2 kg be taxed at the standard rate, while allowing member states to apply a reduced rate of vat to addressed postal consignments of less than 2 kg. the rapporteur, however, proposes that the objections which led to the original rejection of the report be taken into account this time, and proposes that the weight limit for standard consignments at the reduced rate be raised from 2 kg to 10 kg and that the entry into force of the directive be postponed until 2007. the proposal is, in my view, a considerable improvement on the previous report and therefore deserved my vote in favour.
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express our deepest sympathy with the victims of the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza. how should we view this proposal when the israeli army has carried out further attacks that have killed dozens of people, including children? how should we view this proposal when the israeli authorities continue to build an illegal and unacceptable wall of occupation and apartheid? how should we view this proposal when we have heard the testimony of palestinians who are denied the most basic rights such as peace, security, food, health, education, housing, employment, freedom of movement, the most basic living conditions, dignity and an independent and sovereign state? how should we view this proposal after hearing the testimony of israelis who are fighting for peace in their own country and against the policies of their government, many of whom have been or are in danger of being imprisoned for refusing to serve in the israeli occupation army? how should we view this proposal in the light of the unacceptable attitude of the european union, which, while claiming to be 'non-partisan', insists on equating the aggressor with the victim, the colonizing power with the victim of colonization, the israeli army with the palestinian people? how should we view this proposal when the israeli army has destroyed almost all palestinian infrastructure, many of which were built with eu funding?
in writing. - (pt) the the quisthoudt-rowohl report proposes that we adopt the council decision and conclude the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation, particularly in the fields of biotechnology, optoelectronics, medical research, space, information technology, telecommunications and software development. from a research policy point of view, i agree with the rapporteur's statement that 'there is nothing to prevent the extension of the agreement' and that there are benefits to maintaining economic and political relations with israel which would enable the eu to play an effective role in this region. the agreement has also been warmly welcomed by the scientific community, which sees clear benefits in maintaining cooperation. i would like to return to the fundamental political question, where this constructive partnership could help to promote dialogue between the parties now in conflict or to initiate a new dialogue between them, in the hope that palestinian scientists and institutions will also be able to cooperate with israeli and european institutions. we must also bear in mind that those who are intent on building up will find it difficult to support destruction. i voted yes.
in the light of the recent events in the united kingdom, the commission has decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's position is taken into account in the adoption of the new constitution. we are witnessing one initiative after another by extremely excited members of parliament. we have the proposal, supported by giscard d'estaing - one of the so-called godfathers of the constitution - that the european parliament should symbolically ratify the draft constitution in order to attract media attention, and the completely unreasonable proposal that the european parliament should put pressure on the council by refusing to approve the future president of the commission. scenarios are being set up where failure to adopt the 'constitution' will result in disasters, perhaps with the interests of eu employees in mind. i cannot help mentioning that the president of the pse group, mr barón crespo, predicts a victory for the spanish socialist party in the spanish elections on 14 march, because the spanish government is constantly changing its position. there has also been increased negotiating activity in the council, with germany reportedly putting forward a proposal to resolve the disagreement over 'who decides' - are there only three countries or a few more? the whole issue and the people involved have little regard for the real interests and needs of the workers and citizens of the various countries of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. we have succeeded in winning broad support for a fairly balanced report which contains the message which parliament wishes to send to the council as well as to the commission. although considerable progress has been made in certain aspects of the creation of an area of peace, security and justice, several outcomes have not been achieved within the deadlines set in tampere and, worse still, other previously set objectives have not been achieved. the council and the commission should take a number of concrete measures, clearly set out in the report, concerning various aspects of the creation of an area of peace, security and justice. i hope that by the end of 2004 we will have adopted all the measures which are now lagging behind the objectives and deadlines set. i should also like to remind you that the initiative of some member states to initiate a major reduction in the community budget in the next financial perspective of the union (2007-2013) can only hinder the achievement of the objectives we want to achieve, because such a reduction will prevent the commission from completing its work on, inter alia, justice and home affairs.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this motion for a resolution is entirely in line with the federalist desire to bring the judicial and internal affairs opened up by the treaty of amsterdam gradually into the community sphere. the aim is to gradually remove the powers and competences which are at the very heart of the sovereignty of the member states. the process was extended by the treaty of nice adopted in 2000 and gained momentum under the pretext of the so-called fight against terrorism after 11 september 2001. it has led to the implementation of repressive measures, particularly in cooperation with the united states, which undermine the freedoms and fundamental rights and security, which is neither criticized nor condemned in the proposal. although the motion for a resolution contains several relevant and necessary criticisms, it must be considered as fundamentally supporting the current eu policy in this area, which includes the schengen information system, europol and eurojust, the gradual introduction of common management of external borders, a restrictive asylum policy, an immigration policy which criminalises immigrants and promotes their return, the use of biometric data, the arrest warrant and the eu definition of terrorism. the motion for a resolution even contains arguments in favour of the so-called european constitution and its use as a tool for achieving a new and dangerous development.
in the light of the recent events, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the mediterranean countries. although this list is more limited than in previous years, it still reflects the complete imbalance which characterizes the negotiating process, or in other words the obligations imposed by the eu on the countries which have applied for membership. the report puts constant pressure on the new member states to ensure that they adopt the dangerous preliminary draft of the so-called european constitution by 1 may and fully implement the community acquis. the report reflects a maniacal desire to ensure compliance with the rules of the capitalist internal market and supports the introduction of safeguard clauses which are in fact a means of blackmailing these countries. as regards the unacceptable restrictions on freedom of movement imposed on these countries, i can only say that they should be removed as soon as possible. as regards the consequences of neoliberal policies, the report merely acknowledges a considerable increase in unemployment, inequality and social exclusion. the report does not recommend any serious evaluation of the socioeconomic impact and consequences of enlargement and the measures needed to remedy them.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) on 1 may, 10 new member states will be admitted to the eu under the accession treaty signed in athens on 16 april 2003. these countries have made a considerable effort to meet the eu's requirements, particularly at the institutional and economic level. i therefore vote in favour. i have two comments, however. the first concerns cyprus, which is not yet reunited. the cyprus question remains the most important political issue to be resolved. i believe it is therefore essential that we do everything we can to support the negotiations for an agreement between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot sides. my second comment concerns the strong federalist tendencies of the rapporteur, which all opinion polls including eurobarometer unanimously show to be unrealistic, because the majority of europe's citizens do not think federalism makes sense and do not want it.
in the light of the recent developments in the european union, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include bulgaria and romania. the report is particularly instructive on economic issues, as it 'congratulates bulgaria on the functioning of its market economy', 'encourages the government to continue its economic reform programme', 'welcomes the increased importance of the private sector' and 'is concerned that any delay or abandonment of strategic privatisation processes may result in a fall in foreign direct investment'. in other words, capitalism is welcomed and any criticism is limited to reservations about the privatisation process and any obstacles to the current large-scale, self-interested capital transfers of eu countries to bulgaria's strategic economic sectors. the report cynically calls on bulgaria to 'abolish the requirement for eu citizens to have a permanent residence permit to work in bulgaria', without any reference to the unacceptable restrictions imposed on bulgarians in their right to travel and reside in the eu countries even after accession. the report also refers to bulgaria's membership of nato, scheduled for 2004, as an implicit precondition for eu membership.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as you know, bulgaria applied for eu membership on 18 december 1995. however, the commission recommended that bulgaria should not be included in the first enlargement. at that time the country was on the right track as far as purely political issues were concerned. however, in relation to the economic criteria, the development had been extremely slow. that was in 1997 and 1998. in 1999, after a clear improvement in this situation, bulgaria was finally invited to open negotiations in helsinki with a view to future accession. since then, the country has made a major effort to comply with eu recommendations, especially as regards the implementation of european legislation. the report also calls for the eu to provide greater support to prepare for accession at the earliest opportunity. i fully share this view and agree that bulgaria fulfils the essential criteria for accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in the light of the recent events in the former yugoslavia, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the countries of eastern europe and the mediterranean. i would like to clarify what the rapporteur is stressing, stating that romania has so far not been 'accepted as a well-functioning market economy' and recommending that the country continue to 'make efforts to implement economic reforms in all areas'. the report calls on romania to 'continue with increased energy its programme of structural reforms' and complete the privatisation programme in order to overcome what it describes as 'the delayed privatisation and restructuring of public enterprises'. the aim, as stated in the report, is to create economic activity capable of attracting foreign direct investment, or in other words to place strategic sectors of the romanian economy under the control of the large companies of the eu countries. i must say that the reading of this report makes one wonder whether it would not be better for parliament to look first at what is happening in the various countries of the european union rather than lecturing others.
in writing. - (pt) the i remember that it was on 22 june 1995 that romania submitted its application for membership of the european union. after analysing its situation in accordance with the criteria set out in copenhagen, romania was relegated to the second group. the situation in romania deserves particular attention and the road to accession appears long and arduous. the country has many problems to solve, which is necessary if the negotiations are to succeed. i do, however, recognise that important steps have been taken towards accession - in particular, the constitution of the country was amended last autumn. i therefore vote in favour. i think, however, that a solution should be found as soon as possible in certain areas. the rule of law is not yet respected. the corruption is alarming. the courts are not independent. freedom of the press is not guaranteed. these are just a few of the problems that need to be solved quickly. i support the report, but i urge romania to make a more comprehensive effort to join the eu in 2007, otherwise accession will undoubtedly be postponed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report deals with the internal market strategy, which is a subject of vital importance for the european union. the report provides a detailed breakdown of the distribution of tasks between the eu and the member states. the various fields of action cover issues of vital importance to the pursuit of the main objective, which has always been the continuing development of the internal market. we welcome the measures designed to reduce infringements of eu rules and to promote the opening up of the energy, transport, telecommunications and postal markets. it is also important that we succeed in improving competitiveness so that we can increase growth and employment. i should also like to draw attention to the proposals which will reduce tax barriers and ensure greater transparency in public procurement. i voted in favour of this report because i hope it will help to create a perfect internal market in all areas, including people, goods, services and capital. i should also like to point out that the sovereignty of states is a condition which has always been a prerequisite for the establishment of the internal market. it has been respected at all stages of the market's development. the sovereignty should be preserved. i therefore voted in favour of the miller report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) health systems across the eu face the same challenges: ensuring access for all, high quality and financial sustainability. member states are responsible for organising and financing health systems, but we should promote cooperation through increased exchange of information, experience and best practice. we support the use of the open method of coordination and the establishment of a detailed timetable, but member states should set common objectives and indicators before the european council in spring 2006. some member states are faced with long waiting lists for certain types of treatment and an increasingly limited number of doctors, healthcare professionals and adequately qualified healthcare providers. member states should improve the quality of services and should invest in infrastructure and training and development of health workers through the structural funds. a european network of reference centres for diseases requiring a particular concentration of resources and expertise should be established with a view to improving the use of the current union capacity. the ageing of the population will exacerbate these problems and there will be a marked increase in the number of diseases requiring intensive medical treatment and long-term care. this will threaten the financial sustainability of health systems.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mrs jöns on the excellent report she has drawn up on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - proposal for a joint report on 'health care and care for the elderly: support for national strategies to ensure a high level of social protection', which i fully support. i particularly support the desire to propose measures to ensure the full implementation of the three objectives set by the european union in this area, namely access, quality and financial sustainability. the ageing of the population is one of the eu's greatest long-term challenges. therefore, all member states - including the new member states joining in may - should be involved in closer and more structured cooperation so that we can define best practice in this area.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report is based on a commission communication on the proposal for a joint report on 'health and care of the elderly: support for national strategies to ensure a high level of social protection'. i welcome the fact that the report supports cooperation in the health sector and health systems in the long term, while retaining the responsibility of the member states for the organisation and financing of health systems. it will promote the exchange of ideas, experience and best practice. i also agree with the rapporteur when she says that home care provided by a family member or another person has a number of advantages and that people who provide such services should receive support. important steps were also taken in this area in the context of the bastos report on the possibilities of reconciling work, family life and private life, which we adopted during this parliamentary term. a balanced geographical distribution between urban and rural areas of appropriate health and long-term care facilities should be sought and the structural funds should be used to create health and long-term care infrastructure. it is a crucial step, a prerequisite for achieving our objectives. i voted yes.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. this is unacceptable pressure and interference on the venezuelan authorities, in particular on the national electoral council. we must not forget the short-lived military coup of 11 and 12 april 2002, which was swiftly supported by the spanish presidency of the council of the european union, the failed boycott of oil extraction and the continuing attempt to destabilise the country economically and socially by the big business and by sectors linked to the oligarchy that have exploited the venezuelan people in recent decades, actively encouraged and supported in a blatant way by the united states administration. what venezuela needs is support and solidarity for its democratic and patriotic process - enshrined in the constitution of the bolivarian republic of venezuela, adopted in a referendum with broad support from its people - which over the past few years has been attacking the root causes of inequalities in the country and responding to the most pressing needs of the overwhelming majority of the population. solidarity that we have always shown and will continue to show.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization, unesco, has recently awarded its international prize for press freedom to the cuban journalist and writer raúl rivero. this provoked the usual anger of the cuban dictatorship and protests against unesco for awarding this prize to a writer and journalist who was sentenced to 20 years in prison, along with 74 other dissidents. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after this house awarded the sakharov prize to oswaldo payá and thus encouraged cuban dissent and the struggle for freedom in cuba, we cannot remain silent and must constantly repeat that cuba must respect human rights and that cuban tyranny is an anachronistic and aberrant tyranny. mr president, i would ask you to communicate with the cuban authorities, expressing concern about the health and the situation of political prisoners in cuban jails.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have no doubt that we must combat the emerging transnational crime and, in particular, terrorism. i also have no doubt that close cooperation is required, both at community and transatlantic level. i have serious doubts, however, whether we are not undermining the healthy balance between security and justice by promoting a general system of surveillance for every passenger, every citizen, in violation of the principle of proportionality which must always be respected in any democratic society. commissioner frederik bolkestein asks us what signal we should give to our partners. we must give a clear signal that we want to cooperate on common objectives, in compliance with our law. we have had a very positive contribution from the article 29 group, with 19 essential data which i think are sufficient to protect the safety of passengers and we want assurances as to the retention of data, the right of appeal and how this data will be used. commissioner frederik bolkestein, what message did we send to our citizens when, in march 2003, the european parliament considered that it was unacceptable for pnr data to be transferred without guarantees of an adequate level of protection and compliance with the community rules in force? and when, in october of the same year, 2003, we found that the commission's own conclusions indicated that this data protection could not be considered adequate? mr bolkestein listened to speeches on the dilemma which he had posed to this parliament in voting on the motion for a resolution. i would like to ask you a different question to make this debate clearer and because that is, in my view, the heart of the matter: what is different today compared to march or october 2003 that justifies this parliament's change of attitude?
mr president, commissioner michaele schreyer, mr herbert bösch, our colleague's report does indeed give a well-deserved highlight to the scandal of export refunds for cattle to lebanon in 2002. we cannot help but note that this scandal now being discussed is only the latest in a long line of scandals. the commissioner has told us here about the reports provided by her colleague, mr franz fischler, on this problem. i would perhaps ask the commissioner to consult the press in 2001 to see in great detail the whole scandal of export refunds to jordan - as it had already happened to other countries - with the sole purpose of breaking the embargo imposed by the united nations on iraq. this has been the case for years with a number of countries, and if the commission has not been able to understand what is going on, i sincerely think it is because it did not want to understand, because even the press has very clear reports on the subject. but i would like to tell you that it is not just this scandal of the breach of the embargo on iraq with community funds that is at issue, because this is one among many others, such as, for example, the scandal of the network set up by the neapolitan camorra, involving large groups of dairy farmers from france, belgium and germany, to adulterate butter with bovine fat and lubricants, also heavily financed by the community budget, both with export subsidies and with subsidies for disposal. the problem is that commissioner franz fischler, who was not actually appointed here - but who should be the first person to be appointed in these circumstances - cannot ignore the scale of these successive scandals with the agricultural budget. until today we have had no information on the amount of money spent by the community budget on the disposal of adulterated butter by this camorra network from 1995 to 2000, and even less on the money recovered. to this day we still do not know which companies were involved and why the commission did not impose any penalties on any of them, not even those relating to the operation of the milk quota mechanisms. the question is to understand why the commission is so condescending and letting large agri-food groups go unpunished and enforcing harsh penalties for mere administrative incidents on farmers or artisanal dairies. these are the big questions that remain unanswered ...
mr president, in this debate it is important to emphasize four points which i consider to be fundamental. the first is the delay in the presentation of a proposal for a directive - which has already been mentioned here - announced in the social policy agenda in june 2000, which we have repeatedly called for here in several reports adopted by the european parliament, to prohibit sex discrimination in areas other than employment. we regret that pressure and resistance from various interest groups, especially the insurance and media sectors, have delayed its submission. the second issue is the very narrow scope of the commission's proposal, since it covers only access to and supply of goods and services, excluding other areas, such as media and advertising content, education and decision-making processes. it is a regrettable position, especially when one is aware of the discrimination that persists in the media, in advertising, in decision-making processes - since other areas such as vocational training and social security are covered by other directives - although it is important that they be revised to improve their content and eliminate sexual discrimination in all areas, particularly in occupational social security schemes. the third point is the need for mechanisms to ensure the application of de facto equality, which was already provided for in previous directives but which is still not being applied, and therefore it is supported that some practical measures be included to allow more effective action to be taken in defence of the application of this principle. the fourth question is the need to eliminate discrimination in services which are essential to allow women to live equality in their daily lives. the inequality of treatment between women and men in all areas of the supply of goods and services must be prohibited. it is unacceptable for insurance companies to include gender as a factor in risk calculation or for banks to discriminate against women in the granting of credit. as the rapporteur says, in the light of the work done, a person enjoys the right to equal treatment as a citizen and not as a member of a group. so it is not acceptable that insurance companies do what they do when they analyse risks, premiums and time frames for benefits in terms of groups and male and female averages. however, this does not prevent the continuation of the advocacy for positive action to eliminate inequalities and promote equality between men and women. this is a timid and incomplete step which i hope will be adopted tomorrow and which will then become a european union directive, insisting on the need to complete the processes which are still lacking as soon as possible.
mr president, these reports have the merit of stating the position of the european parliament on a relevant issue in the area of cooperation and solidarity, but they also have the fragility of being no more than consultation responses without the status of an 'opinion'. despite this limitation, they clearly reveal parliament's position that the agreements must not be limited to so-called 'political dialogue and cooperation' but must be genuine association agreements. in two reports and four opinions only three votes were against, and the opinions of the committee on industry prevented unanimity. and while parliament is clearly opposed to the mere creation of political conditions by imposing a model and complains that the commission's proposals are nothing more than preparation of conditions for future negotiations, parliament, through these reports, points out that the agreements on which it has been consulted are a transitional and preparatory stage. for our part, as regards the concept of cooperation, we wanted to go further, as the opinions of the cooperation committee advocate. it is indeed regrettable that the agreements are aimed at preparing a political framework for free trade agreements and that they do not appear to serve an integrated strategy of economic and social development and the fight against poverty. these agreements - in the words of commissioner pascal lamy at the 7th acp-eu joint assembly - would 'bring in through the window clauses that were left at the door' at the cancun wto meeting. the acp countries seek to avoid this in their economic partnership agreements and, among other things, to prevent the imposition of forms of liberalisation in areas where they wish to find solutions best suited to their national situations, specificities and processes, in particular in public services, health, education and water distribution - particularly in the latter, which is considered vital for many of these countries. it is significant that, as these agreements illustrate, the aim is the same on all fronts, namely to force the single economic and social model, a free but not loyal market. this is a time when such cooperation does not include strategies for economic and social development that combat poverty, when everything is conditioned by an ideology of the market and profit, thus increasing very serious social asymmetries.
in writing. - (pt) the this report concerns the commission proposal for a regulation following the court of justice ruling on bilateral open skies agreements between eu member states and the united states. the relevant part of the decision is that these agreements were contrary to community law, since the member states had neither the right nor the competence to conclude such agreements. the commission has proposed three measures: to provide a legal basis for community-us relations in the field of air transport; to provide a legal framework for ongoing negotiations and for all other agreements; and to ensure an appropriate division of competences between the community and the member states. from a legal point of view, the commission's proposal is very well founded, provided that it succeeds in closing a loophole in the legislation created by the court's decision. the measures adopted in the council's common position, which were supported by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, do not make the political constraints imposed on member states in the negotiation and conclusion of air services agreements with third countries nearly as strict, and i could therefore vote in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal for a regulation follows a ruling by the court of justice following a complaint lodged by the commission against member states which had concluded open skies agreements alleging infringement of the community's external competence and freedom of establishment. the commission proposed that the member states should initiate procedures for the termination of the agreements they had concluded and asked the council for authorization to open negotiations at community level with all the bilateral partners. for matters which fall partly within the competence of the community and partly within that of the member states, the commission proposed a community strategy, that is, close cooperation. in its common position, the council accepted the views of the european parliament. the member states will thus retain the right to negotiate and conclude bilateral air services agreements without prior authorization from the commission, even if the content of these agreements falls partly within the community's competence, provided that they incorporate certain types of provisions which are determined jointly by the commission and the member states. this approach will continue to guarantee the freedom of action of the member states, which is why we voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to cover the whole of the european union, including the united states, and to include the european union in the scope of the regulation. the commission proposes a set of rules to be observed by member states when negotiating and implementing air services agreements for this type of joint agreement, which requires the participation of member states' governments. these are to support specifically the community's negotiating strategies and objectives and must not initiate negotiations which fall within the exclusive competence of the community. the council's common position included parliament's basic request that the member states should retain the right to negotiate and conclude bilateral air services agreements without the prior consent of the commission, even if the content falls within the community's competence. it is stipulated that 'standard clauses' drawn up jointly by the commission and the member states must be included in any agreement. the measures adopted in the council's common position and supported by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism reduce the constraints on the freedom of action of the member states, which is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 7 november 2002, a solidarity fund was set up to provide assistance to the population of regions struck by natural disasters. the fund may be mobilised up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is a proposal which took several years to adopt, after the insistence of our parliamentary groups during the annual budget negotiations prior to 2002. last year, the fund provided emergency aid following the major forest fires which destroyed some 5% of portugal's territory. in view of the urgency of the situation, we supported this proposal to mobilise some eur 22 million from the fund to cover damage caused by the storms and floods in malta (september 2003), the forest fires in spain (summer 2003) and the floods in france (december 2003). the inadequacy of the amounts in relation to the damage suffered - and portugal last year is a good example - raises the question of the level of solidarity within the eu and the criteria for supporting this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the preliminary draft amending budget no 5/2004 to allocate the budgetary resources mobilised from the eu solidarity fund as quickly as possible to ensure the necessary community aid to communities affected by natural disasters in spain, france and malta in 2003, thus helping to ensure that this aid is provided as quickly as possible. in this context, it is also essential that this amending budget be adopted at first reading, as has been the case in the past, especially in the context of the forest fires in portugal in the summer of 2003. the eu must show full and immediate solidarity with regions in member states or candidate countries affected by natural disasters and mitigate the serious consequences of these disasters for the livelihoods of the population, the environment and the economy. for this reason, the aid must not only be rapid but also visible in the appropriations made available. i therefore believe that the criteria for support from the solidarity fund should be changed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this regulation follows the emu action plan approved by the ecofin council on 18 february 2003 with a view to remedying the shortcomings in the union statistics on the economic behaviour of households and enterprises and will, in particular, make it possible to monitor households' saving and consumption and the profitability of financial and non-financial enterprises. the breakdown of statistics by economic sector will undoubtedly improve the information that can be read from the quarterly financial accounts and is a clear imitation of the way it is done for the us federal reserve. we have no objection to the proposal itself. but what could be seen as a purely technical matter, serving only information purposes, is closely linked to the support and guidance given to economic and especially monetary policy in the eu. these are tools for adjusting economic policy decisions, as these policies underpin the economic and monetary union, which lacks precise statistical instruments. in other words, these are tools which help to strengthen the union's right-wing and anti-social policies, even if they provide some useful information.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) on 1 january 2004, directive 2003/96/ec restructuring the community provisions on the taxation of energy products and electricity entered into force. this amendment is intended to ensure that the new member states have longer exemption periods because of the risk they face from sudden increases in the cost of living. however, we believe that there is more to it than that and we reject the directive for three reasons: firstly, harmonised energy taxation is not a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the internal market. there are certain advantages to tax competition, but the main one is that this is a question of tax sovereignty with far-reaching implications for a state's social and environmental choices and tax structure. that is why member states have submitted many requests for exemptions. secondly, an increase in the lowest rates will lead to an increase in the cost of living, particularly for workers and the least well-off sections of society. it will lead to injustice and it will not punish those who consume the most. this is typical of flat-rate and direct taxation. thirdly, there is no need to shift the tax from labour to 'consumption' of the environment, where the price is always passed on to the consumer. the burden must be shifted, but to the "use" of capital, otherwise taxation will continue to be unjust.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed directive should be amended to take account of the new requirements of the directive on energy efficiency and the new requirements of the directive on energy efficiency. harmonised taxation is without doubt a basic prerequisite for the proper functioning of the internal market. the rapporteur believes that 'in order to avoid harmful competition in taxation, the acceding countries should align their excise duty rates with the minimum rates in force in the european union'. this explains why the report calls on 'all member states, including the present ones, to respect the deadlines laid down in the directive and to contribute in general to the development of an environmentally friendly internal market'. although this report deals with a difficult subject - energy taxation - for environmental reasons in particular, and taxation still requires unanimity in the council, i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - (pt) the although i have great reservations about the tax harmonization process, i believe that we must establish methods of coordination, particularly with regard to tax avoidance on crossborder capital flows, and i am therefore a strong advocate of abolishing banking secrecy and putting an end to tax evasion. the ultimate objective of directive 2003/48/ec is to introduce effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments made in a member state for the benefit of owners, thereby guaranteeing a fair taxation of interest income from savings and the right of member states to tax resident persons on their income throughout europe, while removing artificial incentives to capital flows within and outside the union. however, the desire of some member states to undermine the tax base is at odds with their desire to attract capital savings. this is particularly true for states with direct links to tax havens. the best way to effectively tax savings income is through the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities. in order to prevent capital flight, other countries must follow the established arrangements, and in this particular case it is switzerland. unfortunately, there are still difficulties in negotiations with other countries. however, we must go further. we must work on methods of tax coordination to tax capital movements and crossborder transfers of securities at community level.
- in writing. - on 16 october 2001 the council authorised the commission to negotiate with the swiss confederation an agreement establishing measures similar to those to be implemented in the community in order to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the implementation of the provisions of council directive 2003/48/ec of 3 june 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments will depend on the implementation by the swiss confederation of measures similar to those laid down in that directive, in accordance with an agreement concluded between switzerland and the european community. it is therefore proposed that we approve the agreement between the community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and the related memorandum of understanding. i voted yes.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal for a directive is part of the original monti package of 1998, which paved the way for greater tax harmonisation in the eu. whatever one thinks of the proposals as a whole, and given that we are trying to create a single market, it is understandable that there is a need to create a certain degree of tax harmonization in order to combat tax evasion and double taxation. however, we have a fundamental objection to the approach outlined, because the concept of tax harmonization is federalist and touches on one of the cornerstones of state sovereignty: a state's ability to tax households and companies and thus ensure its autonomy. we are also not convinced of the economic benefits of tax harmonization compared with the benefits of maintaining healthy tax competition. for this very reason, this directive and the rest of the package were only adopted in june 2003. the directive concerns interest and royalties paid between associated companies, with the aim of abolishing taxation at source on these. the amendment aims to extend the list of companies covered by the directive and to incorporate the directive on parent companies and subsidiaries and the merger directive. our concern is that the directive should not facilitate tax evasion or deprive member states of the resources needed to combat fraud and abuse.
the commission's proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a court of first instance for staff cases is part of the reform of the judicial system enshrined in the treaty of nice, which aims to solve the problem of the increasing workload of the european courts. it responds to the call made at the nice summit, where the court of justice and the commission were asked to 'prepare as soon as possible a draft decision establishing a special court with jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the community and its servants'. the creation of this court would mean that these disputes, which represent about one third of the workload currently assigned to the court of first instance, could be removed from that court. in future, it will be limited to acting as a court of second instance in respect of decisions of the new court of first instance, while the court of justice will only intervene in very exceptional circumstances and will review the judgments of the court of first instance. despite the staff and operational costs of this new court, which are estimated to total eur 2 453 000 per year, i voted in favour of its creation because it will speed up the processing of cases in the community.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) pursuant to the provisions of article 245 (2) of the ec treaty and article 160 (2) of the euratom treaty, the court of justice invites the council to amend the protocol on the statute of the court of justice as follows: article 17 of the protocol provides that decisions of the full court are valid only if the court is composed of 11 judges. with the increase in the number of judges after enlargement - from 15 to 25 - it is proposed that this quorum be changed to 15. under article 16 of the protocol, the grand chamber, which is convened, in particular, at the request of a member state or a community institution which is a party to the proceedings, is to consist of 11 judges. it is proposed to increase the number of judges in the grand chamber to 13 and to maintain the present quorum of nine judges. the rapporteur and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market say in the explanatory statement of the proposal on which parliament is being consulted: 'this proposal, which seems to be the subject of consensus in the council and the court of justice, is fully sufficient and can therefore be adopted without amendments.' we see no reason not to support this conclusion and that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the the purpose of this draft council decision is to amend, in the context of enlargement, articles 16 and 17 of the protocol on the statute of the court of justice in order to increase the number of judges in the grand chamber and the court of first instance. under this proposal, the number of judges in the grand chamber would be increased to 13 and the minimum number of judges required would remain at nine. as regards the plenary session, where the number of judges is increased from 15 to 25, it is proposed that the quorum be increased from 11 to 15 judges. i agree with the rapporteur that this proposal, which is unanimously supported by the council and the court of justice, is fully adequate and that is why i voted in favour.
in the light of the enlargement of the european union on 1 may, with the accession of 10 countries from eastern europe and the mediterranean, this report is more significant than the fact that it is designed to include the nine official languages of these countries in the court of justice of the european communities, unless they are already in use. why is it necessary to stress this? because some people in other processes - for example, the important example of the community patent - seek 'solutions' which do not imply full respect for the different languages of the eu countries, but which aim to impose the languages spoken in the countries with the largest populations and discriminate against the other official languages of the union.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the draft council decision, in the light of the new division of jurisdiction in direct actions and the enlargement of the european union, aims to include estonian, hungarian, latvian, lithuanian, maltese, polish, slovak, slovenian and czech in the working languages provided for in article 35 of the rules of procedure of the court of justice. in the light of the new division of jurisdiction between the court of justice and the court of first instance laid down in the treaty of nice, it is also appropriate to lay down a rule on the decision on the working language of the court of justice in proceedings, provided that the requesting party is an institution. as regards the corresponding proposal for the court of justice, the rapporteur and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market state in the explanatory memorandum that the proposal 'seems absolutely necessary and is the logical consequence of the enlargement of the union. our declaration on the new language arrangements in the court of justice also applies to this case and that is why we voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) with the accession of the new member states, estonian, hungarian, latvian, lithuanian, maltese, polish, slovak, slovenian and czech will become official languages of the european union. the draft council decision, on which the european parliament is consulted, therefore aims to add these languages to the list contained in article 29 (1) of the rules of procedure of the court of justice. because i have always fought for multilingualism in all aspects of the european integration process, i have called for all languages to be treated equally in the community's procedures and institutions, and to be accorded equal dignity and use. i could only vote for.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) sometimes major problems can be solved in a single paragraph of text, and this report is an example of this. the aim is to include the nine official languages of the 10 countries of eastern europe and the mediterranean which will join the union on 1 may as working languages of the court of first instance, unless they are already used. it is becoming increasingly important to confirm and actually implement the principle of making all the languages of the european union official and working languages - as the treaties provide - because we are currently seeing a tendency for certain languages to really and increasingly clearly dominate, namely the languages spoken in the most populous countries - the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, italy - at the expense of languages spoken in other countries which are members of the european union. we should therefore always be vigilant in protecting the languages of the individual member states of the european union.
the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. the draft council decision, on which the european parliament is consulted, therefore aims to add these languages to the list contained in article 29 (1) of the rules of procedure of the court of justice. the rapporteur and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market state in the explanatory memorandum that 'the proposal seems absolutely necessary and is the logical consequence of the enlargement of the union. it can therefore be adopted without amendments.' we also support this view because it supports the fundamental principle of preserving the languages of the member states as the official languages of the union. it is this type of development that will ensure equality between member states, which is a key value for preserving the union as an area of freedom and diversity.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the draft council decision, in the light of the new division of jurisdiction in direct actions and the enlargement of the european union, aims to include estonian, hungarian, latvian, lithuanian, maltese, polish, slovak, slovenian and czech in the working languages provided for in article 35 of the rules of procedure of the court of justice. following the new division of jurisdiction in direct actions between the court of justice and the court of first instance laid down in the treaty of nice, it is also appropriate to lay down a rule on the decision on the working language of the court of first instance in proceedings, provided that the requesting party is an institution. i voted yes.
the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the measures taken by the member states to combat the spread of foot-and-mouth disease. this proposal for a directive from the commission aims to strengthen and update the rules on the importation into the community of wild animals and domestic animals of species susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease or classical swine fever and therefore deserves our support in principle. the proposal consolidates in a single act the animal health rules for the import of live ungulates and provides for the establishment of a list of third countries from which member states are authorised to import such animals and the health conditions to be met. we have no objections to the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and therefore voted in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health requirements for imports into the community of certain live ungulates are met. outbreaks of disease in the eu in recent years, in particular outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever, have led to a thorough review of the eu's efforts to prevent and control these animal diseases. in order to meet the threat of potential future outbreaks, the commission proposes to rationalise, strengthen and update the rules on imports into the community of wild and domestic animals of species susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease or classical swine fever. by consolidating the rules for the import of both wild ungulates and domestic animals in a single legal act, this proposal for a directive meets the expectations of european consumers in terms of food safety and brings us one step closer to the high level of health protection in the eu that we want.
in writing. - (pt) the this proposal for a regulation is intended to be an important instrument for implementing article 104 of the treaty - under the excessive deficit procedure. the aim is to require member states to report quarterly data on government debt (maastricht) as part of a general trend towards quarterly statistical data, although the formal excessive deficit procedure will continue to be based on annual data. the rapporteur believes that this will make it possible to monitor the budgetary situation of the member states more closely, to be aware of any budgetary problems that may arise at an earlier stage and to be able to evaluate the results of the member states' efforts better. the rapporteur could not have said it more clearly. here is another example of a policy - in this case the stability pact - which requires an accurate statistical instrument. however, a statistical change has once again had a significant political impact, thus increasing the pressure of colleagues on a member state which has strayed from the budgetary consolidation objectives of its stability programme and from the objectives of the stability pact. the main concern with this instrument is therefore political, particularly as regards its purpose. this is much more important than other concerns about the cost of producing statistics, compliance with the annual indicator or the need to produce statistics retroactively.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) every year, about 5 million people in the eu are exposed to work accidents that result in more than three days of absence, amounting to 146 million lost working days. some of these accidents have lasting effects, affecting both the victim's ability to work and his leisure time. i therefore welcome the report by mr perez alvarez, which illustrates the importance of adopting this directive, which aims to raise health and safety standards. despite the inclusion in the council's common position of amendments adopted by parliament at first reading, certain elements still need to be strengthened:- preventive measures must be taken to limit risks. the employer must identify and assess the various risks and inform the workers about them. involvement, consultation and training of workers must also be encouraged. - when exposure exceeding the limit values is detected, workers must have the right to a medical examination and access to their medical records. if the health of workers is impaired as a result of such exposure, the employer must reassess the risks. - this directive should include dissuasive sanctions to be applied by member states in the event of infringement of national legislation. in order to make europe a better place to work, this directive must be adopted without delay.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the council common position lays down exposure limit values in the light of the biological effects on health. the long-term adverse effects that may result from exposure are not taken into account as there is insufficient scientific information on this. the common position also sets action values. action values are measurable parameters which, if observed, ensure that the limit values are not exceeded. it also lays down the preventive measures necessary to limit the risks to which workers are exposed. these preventive measures are based primarily on the employer's obligation to identify and assess the various risks. the common position also contains measures to inform and train workers. the common position takes account of the main objectives and of a number of amendments adopted by parliament at first reading, but some aspects do not meet the requirements. the rapporteur therefore believes that the right to a medical examination should be introduced in the event of overexposure and that the preventive system laid down in the directive should be strengthened. this directive must also provide for the penalties to be provided for in the national laws adopted pursuant to it.
in writing. - (pt) the i welcome this proposal for a directive, which is part of the action to promote a better working environment and aims to protect the safety and health of each worker and to introduce a minimum level of protection to prevent any distortion of competition. the 'more and better jobs' element of the lisbon strategy requires the eu to develop and set high quality standards for working conditions across the eu, leading to an improvement in the dignity of work and the quality of life of our citizens. finally, in my explanation of vote for mr gargani's report on the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work (2 september 2003), i said that we must eliminate dangers which are very often hidden, such as those to which this report refers. in other words, prevention is much better than cure and is also much better than compensation. i therefore support mr alvarez's last proposal to introduce the right to a medical examination in the event of overexposure - as parliament proposed - and to strengthen the preventive system provided for in the directive.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) achieving equality between men and women is a key task for the eu, which has an obligation to proactively promote all actions to that end. this excellent report aims to establish a community action programme to promote organisations active at european level in the field of equality between men and women. this programme for the period 2004-2005 will have some eur 2.2 million available to support such organisations in the form of operating grants. the activities of these organizations will make it possible to carry out:- information and dissemination activities,- actions aimed at reconciling work and family life, women's participation in decision-making, combating violence against women, gender stereotypes and discrimination at work,- and finally measures to promote cooperation with women's organizations in third countries and to raise awareness of women's issues worldwide. i voted in favour of this position at the second reading, which is the result of a compromise between the council and parliament. this programme may therefore exceptionally lay down transitional provisions concerning the period of eligibility of expenditure.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the purpose of this proposal is to establish a basic legal instrument for operating grants to the european women's lobby and other organisations active at european level in the field of equality. this act is necessary to ensure compliance with the current financial regulation on the general budget of the european union. the following will receive support:area 1 - the european women's lobby;area 2 - ongoing activities carried out by an organisation working towards an objective of general european interest in the field of equality or an objective forming part of eu policy in this field;area 3 - interim activities. the council accepted several of parliament's proposals but rejected the proposal to extend the 2004-05 programme to 2008 and to increase the budget from eur 2.222 million to eur 5.5 million. the budget for 2004-2005 was maintained at eur 2.2 million and the requirement to specify the lobby activities to be supported by replacing 'etc.' with 'integration of the gender dimension in education, sport, health and social security' and 'cooperation with women's organisations in third countries' was not accepted. we're sorry to hear that. the rapporteur proposes that the common position be adopted with a single additional article on 'transitional provisions', which the council has already accepted.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. this is all the more important because of the exclusion mechanisms which have led to situations of privilege and discrimination in favour of women's organisations affiliated to the european women's lobby. such mechanisms violate human rights and are contrary to the basic principles of free and pluralist social organisation. the first reading of the rapporteur's proposal was intended to correct this imbalance, but the left-wing line in the committee in question ensured that unequal treatment and opportunities for women's organisations once again prevailed. apart from the concerns about this injustice itself, it is grotesque that this situation has been created by a committee whose purpose is to defend women's rights and equal opportunities. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities should be obliged to speak for and create clear visions for the majority of women, for the diversity and plurality of attitudes and interests. we succeeded in preventing the original proposals from being watered down during the second reading and avoiding a disastrous and unfair outcome. there is therefore hope for a real improvement in the situation.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the overall objective of eu development policy should be to combat poverty and eradicate it once and for all. to combat poverty effectively - in addition to fighting neoliberalism - equal opportunities between men and women must be created and women must also play a more active role in politics. at the fourth world conference on women, held in beijing in 1995, a clear agenda was drawn up for the first time, with the aim of promoting equal rights between men and women. this led the eu to draft council regulation (ec) no 2836/98 on the integration of the gender dimension in development cooperation. in 2001, an action programme for the general integration of gender into community development cooperation was adopted, which expires in 2006. regulation (ec) no 2836/98 is the legal basis for budget line b7-6220 (21.02.06) on the integration of the gender dimension in development cooperation. as it expired on 31 december 2003, it must be replaced by the proposal under consideration. as a co-legislator, parliament must say that the commission was very slow to put forward the proposal for a new regulation. the commission accepted the vast majority of parliament's amendments, but ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) the as i said at the first reading, action must be taken in the field of development cooperation to combat poverty and disease and to create solutions for education in a culture which protects fundamental human rights. i am of course in full support of measures which can help to achieve the objectives of helping the poorest people. i voted in favour of the report at first reading because i was convinced that the rapporteur's proposal would help to achieve these objectives. as 20 of the 21 amendments tabled by parliament were accepted by the council and the commission, i support this report. i would like to draw attention to a concern which i do not think has been properly addressed, and that is the definition of 'sexual and reproductive health'. this is a legitimate concern, but it must not be distorted into a generic term covering the development of international programmes promoting abortion, which i would condemn in the strongest terms. it should be clarified that the term 'sexual and reproductive health' refers to the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases such as hiv/aids and to the provision of decent conditions during pregnancy, childbirth, labour and postnatal care.
in writing. - (pt) the i have no objection to the rapporteur's amendment to the council's common position. in the light of the many food crises and factors of food contamination such as the presence of dioxins, the creation of a regulatory framework to improve food safety is necessary and in this context hygiene in relation to food for human consumption is an essential element. the principle of 'land to shore' should be the central point of the proposed regulation. a number of measures should be taken to ensure hygiene of all food moving within the union, including imported goods, as well as measures aimed at increasing the responsibility of food business operators. while regulations should in principle apply in a similar manner in all member states, a degree of flexibility is necessary to take account of specific local circumstances. finally, i would say that i agree with amendment no 6, which is intended to ensure that the commission cannot in general amend annexes i and ii adopted by parliament and the council under the co-decision procedure.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. accordingly, hygiene rules must not endanger 'traditional production methods or raw materials which, in accordance with scientific findings, existing practice or tradition, are demonstrably incorporated into the production process and which can be shown to have no adverse effect on the hygienic quality of the food'. therefore, member states should be allowed, in cooperation with the commission, to adopt amendments to the provisions of annexes ii and iii in order to accommodate food businesses located in areas of particular difficulty. this applies to portuguese cheeses, such as those from serra da estrela, as changes in production conditions can have a negative impact on the taste and quality of the product. we also have no objection to the other amendments which, as the rapporteur points out, include a clearer division of this legislative text.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as the rapporteur himself says, this proposal for a regulation is a necessary part of the overall concept of improving food safety in the eu, the quality of products in third countries exporting to the eu and the establishment of a european food law, in this case for animal products. at the heart of the proposed system of official control is the official veterinarian, who must have both legal and technical means at his disposal to carry out his duties, and this requires public funding. foot and mouth disease is a good example of a lack of investment in food inspection. i am in favour of amendment no 2, which aims to exclude from the scope of the regulation the primary production of food for own consumption and the direct supply by the producer of small quantities of primary products to the final consumer or to local shops and restaurants. these matters are governed by national rules. i also support the special treatment of 'small craft enterprises' which produce exclusively for a limited local market. as far as fisheries products are concerned, i also agree with the inclusion of aquaculture products, because the control of fisheries products would be incomplete if it did not include them.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) these four second-reading positions on food hygiene and the organisation of official controls are part of a legislative reform process - the current system is divided into 17 directives, some of which date back to 1964 - and respect the principle that producers are fully responsible for the food they produce. the aim is therefore to strengthen hygiene rules at all stages, from the soil to the table. the new package is based on the haccp system (hazard analysis and critical control points). i agree with the rapporteur that primary production for own consumption and the direct supply of small quantities of primary products by the producer to the final consumer or to local shops and restaurants should not be subject to the same rules as large-scale production. i also agree with his suggestion that traditional production methods should be taken into account. the introduction of the concept of 'small craft enterprises' is also a positive step in this respect. i voted for these amendments.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. at its last spring summit, the european council informed parliament that it wished to complete this process before the forthcoming european parliament elections. our opposition to this process, which is part of the lisbon strategy, is not only about federalist questions of regulatory harmonization and the real loss of sovereignty over the supervision of the financial services markets and of those who operate on these markets. it is also based on economic considerations, as uncontrolled capital movements and the speculative nature of a market focused on short-term investment and rising capital gains are responsible for the increased volatility and for the likelihood of financial crises affecting economic growth and employment. the question of making information available to investors is crucial, not to reassure investors, but to ensure transparency and truthfulness, both of which were lacking in the recent financial scandals involving enron and worldcom and also parmalat in europe. at the same time as we are trying to protect small investors and small businesses, efforts are being made to deregulate and reduce the cost of capital, of course for the large multinational companies.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal for a directive is based on article 13 of the treaty, which empowers the eu to take measures to combat discrimination, in this case discrimination on grounds of sex. we have waited a long time to adopt a directive on the promotion of equality between women and men in areas other than employment. gender discrimination is prevalent in access to and provision of goods and services in both the public and private sectors. this proposal for a directive prohibits the use of gender as a factor in the calculation of insurance premiums and other financial services. in the insurance sector, the gender factor is used arbitrarily in the calculation of risk, simply because it is easy and cheap. there is another form of discrimination which must be ended: women must not be punished because they live longer, and certainly not because they have children and take care of them. the insurance sector must adapt its methods of calculating insurance premiums to the principle of equal treatment and those calculations must be based on strictly objective criteria. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to congratulate mrs prets on her report on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. i support this report, particularly as regards the adoption of a proactive approach in line with the approach already adopted in the treaty. equality between men and women, which is a central value of european civil society, is a right which belongs to all european citizens. it is therefore the responsibility of the eu institutions to protect this right in all areas. we therefore urge the commission to come forward with new proposals aimed at combating discrimination on grounds of sex effectively and ensuring real equality in areas other than employment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this directive on equal treatment for women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services has been a long-term project - it was only included in the commission's social policy agenda in june 2000. it is worth noting that today, fortunately, equality between men and women is a reality, which is enshrined in law and very widespread, except for a few specific problems which still need to be solved. the aim of the proposal under consideration is to combat discrimination in areas such as private pensions and insurance. recent studies have shown that insurance companies calculate premiums differently according to gender. with coverage types where longer life expectancy works against the interests of the insurers, women are punished for living longer. however, car insurance works in the opposite way, since statistics show that women have fewer accidents. i agree with the rapporteur that the use of gender - a factor beyond the control of the individual - as a criterion for calculation is wrong and, since it cannot stand up to objective scrutiny, discriminatory. i did not vote in the last vote, however, because i believe that many aspects have not been properly considered and that the vote in plenary on the amendments did not ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) the this regulation concerns animal welfare but is supported by different economic and national interests, with the meat sector earning many millions of euros, and the commission's apparent confusion and changes in legislation are indicative of this. forced unloading at rest stresses the animals and can lead to the spread of diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease. long journeys of animals must be limited as far as possible, in particular for transport to the slaughterhouse, for veterinary reasons and for reasons of animal welfare on the one hand and economic development on the other. it is pointless to export or import live animals for slaughter when the meat or carcass could be exported. this would ensure that a large part of the added value would remain in the region where the animals were reared, leading to job creation and improved product quality. this policy has been undermined both by the systematic closure of local slaughterhouses, which have been replaced by larger, centralised units, and by the lack of support for mobile slaughterhouses. transport times to slaughterhouses must be reduced as much as possible and international transport to slaughter must be completely prohibited. we must also introduce harmonized rules with time limits for the transport of animals for other purposes. we are not satisfied with this report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this annual report is a follow-up to article 280 of the treaty on the prevention and fight against fraud in the european union. firstly, it is regrettable that the eurostat case was not included, because it highlighted the risks of the commission's tendering policy and showed that tendering should only be used as a last resort. secondly, the report shows that the number of cases of fraud and irregularities reported in 2002 increased by 13% to over eur 2 billion, most of them in the structural funds. it should be noted that the year in question was an exceptional one, due to the closure of the programmes for the period 1994-99. germany and the netherlands accounted for almost two thirds of the irregularities and 55% of fraud and irregularities in traditional own resources, namely unpaid customs duties and taxes on goods moving within the eu. it is therefore essential that we take effective measures to coordinate the fight against smuggling, especially of tobacco and alcohol. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for a commissioner who will be solely responsible for budgetary control and that the european central bank should report all cases of fraud since 1999 to olaf.
in writing. the situation in the middle east has been with us for decades. we have expressed our solidarity in various ways with the people of palestine, just as we are in solidarity with the citizens and groups in israel who are fighting for peace in that part of the world. a joint initiative for peace in the wider middle east, as the council and commission's declaration is entitled, would deserve our full support if it were a joint initiative for peace. it is unacceptable that headlines or covers should conceal symmetries or even perverse readings of events and facts. terrorism cannot be justified by attacking terrorism, terrorism cannot be whitewashed by euphemistically calling it 'extrajudicial executions' or other equally imaginative terms. the murder of the hamas leader did not contribute to peace in the middle east, quite the contrary, regardless of the judgement on this organization; the european union is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east, on the contrary, it is not a party to the peace process in the middle east. parliament and the european union must take clear and unequivocal positions condemning terrorism, but they are only credible when they condemn the terrorist policy of the israeli government and motivate political and diplomatic initiatives such as the suspension of the association agreement with israel.
mr president, the conclusions of this spring summit show that the government officials are determined to pursue a policy of indifference to the worsening economic and social situation, blind to the high levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and the growth of social inequalities, deaf to the protests of workers threatened by the relocations and restructuring of multinational companies, as happened here yesterday with the canadian multinational bombardier, which intends to close several of its factories in countries such as germany, the united kingdom, sweden and portugal, and which, in the case of my country, is the only company in this area of the production of rolling stock, from carriages to trains. what we can see here today is that four years after the illusions sown by the so-called 'lisbon strategy' adopted during the portuguese presidency, we are in a much more serious socioeconomic situation without any of the social objectives being achieved. it is symptomatic that the new commissioner for social affairs has acknowledged that only 10% of the objectives of the 'lisbon strategy' have been achieved. and yet what the council is announcing is more of the same, despite the fact that we are less than two months away from the accession of ten more countries with a difficult economic and social situation. the recipe is still the bet on so-called competitiveness, the promotion of what they consider to be the culture of enterprise, the flexibility and precariousness of work, the reduction of wage costs and wage moderation, the attack on public services, that is, the neoliberal agenda of the economic and financial groups, instead of concern ing themselves with living and working conditions, with sustainable development, greater economic and social cohesion, a relaunch of public and social investments, particularly in railways, health, the environment, education and research. what they point to as a priority is the acceleration of the pace of reforms in the fields of employment, social security and health, despite the growing opposition of the population to measures which, in several of our countries, are putting fundamental social rights in question. what they promise to do is to continue to support the process of liberalization and privatization in many sectors, with a clear bias against the public sector. it is unacceptable that further intervention in this area should jeopardise the existence of quality public services and employment, which are essential to combating poverty, ensuring social inclusion and high standards of living for the whole population. what is urgent is to review economic and monetary policies, to stop liberalizing, to review the stability pact in order to give priority to social criteria, employment, training, education and research, which are essential areas for the sustainable development of europe. what is needed are effective measures to stop the relocation of multinationals and to give their workers' organisations the right to suspend their veto. what is needed is to give dignity to those who work, to put welfare and social progress at the centre of community policy decisions.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it should be noted that the lamfalussy procedure for the adoption of financial market legislation was accepted by the european parliament, which considered that the basic policy choices should be made by co-decision and that the technical measures for their implementation should be adopted by the commission. the main objective of this procedure is to facilitate the implementation of the financial services action plan with a view to achieving an internal market as an integrated capital market by 2005. this procedure will benefit the main market players by giving them significant influence over the legislative process and liberalizing the movement of capital and financial instruments to satisfy the greed of speculators. the european parliament accepted this process because it agreed with the aims and thus put its legislative power in the hands of others. we cannot therefore complain or call the process a simple comitology procedure. by introducing a new organisational structure for financial services committees, the european commission is trying to apply the lamfalussy procedure to the banking, insurance and investment sectors. the european parliament is once again critical, but it is again approving the process because it agrees with the stated objectives. this is a good lesson for those who are strong advocates of codecision.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the background to this association agreement - which aims to improve relations between the eu and central america - is that, after having concluded association agreements with the countries of central america and the andean community, which are identical to those already concluded with mexico and chile and to those currently being negotiated with mercosur, we want to create the basis for a global interregional agreement, which will promote the creation of an association agreement between the eu and latin america, including a free trade area. the aim is to increase the eu's influence in the region and counterbalance the powerful influence of the united states by concentrating the interests of the establishment of a free trade area between the united states and central america and then the creation of the free trade area of the americas (ftaa). i am aware of this development, but i believe that competition is always good and that all the links that can be established with these countries will be mutually beneficial both for the member states involved and for the eu as a whole, as well as for the balance of socioeconomic and geostrategic relations in an intercontinental context. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has decided to launch a new round of negotiations with the countries of central america and the andean community, with the aim of concluding an association agreement with them, which would be identical to the agreements already concluded with mexico and chile or those currently being negotiated with mercosur. i agree with the rapporteur that these agreements may play a decisive role in the subsequent global interregional agreement which could make it possible to establish a euro-latin american association, including a free trade area, by 2010 at the latest, as the european parliament called for in its resolution of 15 november 2001. the main objectives of the new agreement are to consolidate eu-central america relations through the development of political dialogue and the strengthening of cooperation and to create the necessary conditions for the parties to negotiate a realistic and mutually beneficial association agreement, including a free trade agreement, on the basis of the results of the doha work programme. i voted for the report.
in writing. - (pt) the the views i expressed in my explanation of vote for mr obiols in the germà report also apply to this report. in other words, the context in which this association agreement has been drawn up should form the basis for a global interregional agreement which will promote the creation of a euro-latin american association including a free trade area, so that the eu can increase its influence in the region and create a counterweight to the influence that the united states has or wishes to have in the region. if this association is not implemented, the countries of the region will have polarized interests - first with the creation of a free trade area between the united states and central america and then with the creation of the free trade area of the americas (ftaa). we should therefore promote relations with these countries which are mutually beneficial for the countries and member states involved and for the eu as a whole, as well as for the balance between socioeconomic and geostrategic conditions. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (pt) the i share the rapporteur's concern about the strategic need for the eu to enter into closer cooperation with central america as a whole. it must be a geostrategic priority for europe. i regret that the commission has not been able to step up or improve relations with that part of the world which shares europe's values and history. this is something that parliament has called for. in this context, i welcome the draft new agreement on political dialogue and cooperation, which will strengthen the relationship between the eu and the andean community by extending political dialogue and improving cooperation and by laying the groundwork for negotiating a viable and mutually beneficial association agreement, including the signing of a free trade agreement. i am particularly concerned about the deteriorating political and social situation in venezuela and i believe that the conclusion of this agreement will give the eu greater power to act to promote democracy and social stability in the country. the forthcoming guadalajara summit will be a good opportunity to promote this relationship and to set a realistic timetable for a genuine association between the eu and central america. i voted for the report.
in writing. - (pt) this report amends regulation (ec, euratom) no 2728/94 establishing a guarantee fund for operations in respect of third countries in the light of the accession of the new member states on 1 may 2004. the guarantee fund covers guaranteed loans to third countries and the guarantees for these loans. with 10 new member states joining the eu in 2004, the fund will be affected by the fact that various countries have been granted loans from the european investment bank (eib) guaranteed by the community budget and which will therefore be covered by the target amount from the moment they join the eu. the guarantees will remain in place, but the associated credit risk will now be transferred to the eu budget. the amendment lays down rules to take account of all these situations and to ensure an orderly transfer of responsibility from the fund to the budget. as regards the financial implications, this is a unique and unavoidable financial operation because it is linked to the enlargement process and i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the guarantee fund was originally set up to protect the eu budget against potential risks associated with the growing external borrowing. the guarantee facility covers three different types of loans to third countries: guarantees for eib lending, eu loans for macro-financial assistance and euratom external lending. in this context, the fund is also an important instrument for our cooperation policy with third countries. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that the new member states no longer have to be covered by the fund if they become members of the eu and to establish a uniform framework for future enlargement rounds. we have no objection to that. however, we share the rapporteur's view that the fund's parameters should be more appropriate, as they may be too cautious. among the amendments we find it useful, but somewhat unrealistic, to moderately ease the rate of transfer to the fund before the expiry of the current financial perspective. as the rapporteur confirms, the commission should carefully evaluate the financial parameters of the fund and make proposals more in line with the real risk in the context of the period after 2006.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal for a regulation was drawn up in the light of the need to amend regulation (ec, euratom) no 2728/94 establishing a guarantee fund for operations in relation to third countries in the light of the accession of 10 new member states on 1 may and their new status as a result. the guarantee fund was originally set up with the 1993-1999 financial perspective to protect the eu budget against potential risks associated with the growth of external borrowing and therefore only covers risks relating to loans and guarantees to third countries. in the context of this proposal, the commission drew up an overall report on the operation of the guarantee fund, concluding that the fund continued to meet its main objectives for the period 1998-2002. i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which, as a technical budgetary instrument, follows a policy with which i fully agree and which aims to ensure that the eu carries out consistent external action, supports development and promotes the well-being of peoples and nations beyond europe's borders.
- the commission proposes that the mandate of the european investment bank to grant external loans be revised to take account of the new neighbourhood policy in an enlarged union, as contained in its proposal for a political and financial framework for 2007-13. if we look at the loan ceiling of eur 20.260 million, we will quickly conclude that the report accompanying this proposal for a legal act adds little to the underlying geopolitical considerations and objectives - in particular the objective of creating a free trade area between the pan-european and the mediterranean area, in which the eu can exert political, economic and military influence at regional level. the neighbourhood policy includes russia as a priority, for which the rapporteur proposes an increase of eur 500 million in the provisional allocation, as well as the mediterranean countries. these loans will clearly serve the eu's own interests and result in increased regional influence and involvement. that is a goal which we reject. more worrying, however, is that this policy of good neighbourliness is at the expense of the eu's cooperation and development policy - in particular with the acp countries, latin america and asia.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal concerns the revision, at the end of the last mandate, of the community bank guarantee for the european investment bank (eib), which is intended to cover loans granted by the eib to non-member countries on the basis of the community's own resources. the eu's enlargement on 1 may 2004 will increase the eib's lending capacity without raising the ceiling on its external lending mandate, which is particularly favourable at a time when the eu is increasing cooperation with the potential candidate countries of the western balkans and is preparing to gradually expand relations with other neighbours to the south and east. according to the eib's business plan, the planned use of the various regional packages for the remainder of the mandate amounts to a total loan greater than the total amount allocated. in the light of these forecasts, the commission has proposed a new geographical distribution of the volume planned for the mandate and the maintenance of the current limit of eur 19.46 million. given the need to improve the eu's relations with its nearest neighbours, i voted in favour of the amendments.
in writing. - (pt) this is a report of a theoretical, conceptual and even ideological nature. when you read the explanatory statement, you get the impression that we live in an idyllic world. this world can be divided into "donors" and those who benefit from the philanthropy of the "donors". nevertheless, the 'donors' must be accountable to their taxpayers, who rightly impose conditions on them for providing aid. there is therefore a real need in the world to ensure that this aid is not misused, and that is why the world bank introduced the concept of 'good governance' in 1991 with a definition of its main aspects. both in the commission's communication and in the critical assessment in this report (which extends the idea beyond the scope of the state, seen as merely a 'supplier' to 'civil society'), 'good governance' is understood as a terminological concept that is more pragmatic than, for example, democracy, and it is believed that this concept should support the eu's development policy. the real world, however, is far from idyllic. there are conflicting interests and no amount of 'good administrative practice' can hide the low importance attached to cooperation in all community policies, the lack of solidarity with or respect for what is 'different', and the constant presence of conditionality imposed by economic and social models. we therefore feel that this report is dangerous because it portrays the world as those who act in good faith would like to see it and not as it is.
in writing. - (pt) the i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must continue and strengthen its efforts to promote democracy as a vital part of its development policy. it is also important to promote genuine democratic governance at local, regional and national level. this cannot be stressed enough, and without it we shall not see the desired harmonization of public authorities. for this reason, i would stress the great need for greater involvement of civil society, which will enable us to implement sustained electoral and parliamentary reforms to ensure that political activity becomes more thoughtful and more effective. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's statement on the need to put an end to impunity, which will only happen if independent judicial systems are established or strengthened and civil and political rights are fully respected. finally, subject to the greater or lesser capacity of individual states, i would agree that refusal to provide aid should be limited to cases where governments ignore or are responsible for continued violations of the basic universal rights of men, women and children. this should not, of course, exclude dialogue, humanitarian aid or food aid.
in writing. - (pt) this is a process which has now reached the third and final stage of negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it is a process marked by pressure from big business - take for example the statements of the european employers' association unice - to avoid liability for direct damage to the environment, and the governments of some of the eu countries have defended these interests during the negotiations on this directive. despite the fact that the result does not include all the proposals of the european parliament and in particular of my group - and without going into detail about the fundamental issues it raises and the concepts used, about its correct implementation and about all its consequences, in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises - this is a compromise that can help us to better combat damage to the environment, paying particular attention to damage caused by big capital. as i have said, policies to protect the environment and natural resources are crucial to the future of all. we must give priority to active policies and measures aimed at prevention, research and support for access to technology, with particular attention to the problems and needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - as i said at first reading when we voted on this proposal for a directive (14 may 2003), it is extremely important that we adopt a global community system for preventing and remedying environmental damage, including water pollution, the deterioration of biodiversity and soil pollution, which pose a serious threat to human health. after several years of debate and repeated environmental disasters, we have reached a crucial point in terms of effectively preventing and remedying environmental damage - in other words, a real watershed. i welcome the compromise result on the financial guarantee (according to the compromise reached with the council, the commission will present a report on the current situation with regard to the compulsory financial guarantee six years after the directive enters into force). i also welcome the gradual approach and the exclusion of low-risk activities. in the planned future review, the european commission will pay particular attention to the differences in the level of responsibility in the different member states, without overlooking the need to strictly respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the member states' actions. this common position improves the legal framework for environmental protection. that is why i voted for the motion.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) contamination of animal feed may result in deterioration of food. bse is a good example of how the use of meat meal led to one of the most serious food crises ever in the eu. the same applies to nitrofurans, dioxins, the hormone mpa (medroxyprogesterone acetate) or antibiotics, which have a subsequent impact on human health. we are facing an extreme case today in the form of genetically modified organisms (gmos) because meat or milk from cattle fed with products containing gmos are not covered by the labelling and traceability procedures. i believe that the main responsibility for food law compliance and food safety lies with the feed business. this principle, together with traceability, can allow rapid action to be taken to eliminate risks to human health, animal health and the environment. nevertheless, it is important how we place the financial responsibility on operators whose activities cause economic damage to the feed sector, bearing in mind that these operators are often supported by public funds. the commission proposes that there should be a financial guarantee - in this case an insurance - although we have reservations on this point because we must first assess the socioeconomic impact of this measure, which should not invalidate an effective system of financial responsibility. there must be surveillance and the law must be obeyed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the proposal for a community regulation should comply with the obligations laid down in the white paper on food safety, provided that it lays down requirements for a complete system of registration of all feed business operators and requirements for feed production. the proposal lays down requirements for feed hygiene at all stages of the use, production, processing and distribution of animal feed and maintains certain requirements for imports from third countries, according to which these countries must comply with standards at least equivalent to those laid down in the regulation (measures to be implemented under the comitology procedure). i do not wish to minimize the importance of food safety, but in my view we must avoid measures which are excessively restrictive or harmful to feed producers and which are unreasonably much stricter than those applicable to food producers. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (pt) the this regulation aims to update the rules on materials that come into contact with food and establishes a framework regulation setting out the rules that should cover packaging and materials, the safety standards to be achieved and the procedure for the approval of both materials and methods. it also contains new provisions on active and intelligent packaging. this regulation is part of the overall package of measures to improve food safety. food safety depends on packaging, which not only protects food from light, microorganisms and air, but also helps to preserve the taste and freshness of food and prolong its shelf life. therefore, special care must be taken with regard to the materials that come into contact with food and the function of these materials. as regards the central premise that all packaging must comply with eu food safety legislation and must not mislead the consumer, we have a major reservation about active packaging. active packaging means changing the composition of food by adding flavourings, removing odour or adding preservatives to prolong the shelf life of products. all of this can obscure the true nature of the food. we therefore agree with amendment no 6, but believe that more thorough studies should be carried out on the use of this type of packaging and its active materials.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following products: this is an attempt to better protect consumer health and promote the free movement of goods by introducing a legal basis for technological development, currently regulated by a 1989 directive which is currently under revision. the draft defines 'active' packaging as something designed to interact with food in order to maintain the quality of the food and prolong its shelf life, while 'intelligent' packaging is defined as something that can provide information on the quality of the food. other new materials and products are also taken into account. in conjunction with the proposed concrete traceability measures, these food quality assurance measures will contribute to a real improvement in food quality, to greater confidence among european consumers and, of course, to higher food safety standards. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in the light of the recent developments in the south african economy, the commission has decided to extend the community's support to the countries of the former soviet union and to extend the community's support to the countries of the former soviet union. i agree with the rapporteur that trade and development policy must be geared to poverty reduction, the promotion of employment and social justice, the development of welfare and fair distribution of income, and general economic, social and cultural development. it is important, however, that in combating the social causes of the uncertainty facing the country at the moment, we do not overlook measures which can effectively stop the spiral of violence which has claimed countless innocent victims, including many citizens of portuguese nationality or origin. i believe that the allocation of eur 15 million from the eu funds for the restructuring of the wine and spirits sector must take account of the infringement of industrial property rights resulting from the illegal use by south african producers of traditional european wine names such as those associated with port wine. in order to confirm the desire for eu cooperation with south africa in promoting democracy and development, i voted in favour of the report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. it will enable us in future to identify better technical and technological solutions guaranteeing both human progress and the sustainability of this development. according to experts in the field, this proposal for a regulation is crucial for the first phase of the european climate change programme and is intended to establish a regulatory framework to reduce the levels of hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride, which are potent greenhouse gases covered by the kyoto protocol. fluorinated gases currently account for 2% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. nevertheless, they have significant global warming potential because many of them have a long atmospheric lifetime (up to 15 years). the proposal should make it possible to reduce emissions of fluorinated gases by 2010 and then to achieve even greater reductions. various studies are being carried out in this area and they obviously need appropriate support from the eu, especially financial support, in order to meet the commitments made at the 2002 johannesburg summit: political coherence, sustainable management of natural resources and promotion of consumption patterns... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. in 1998, the eu and its 15 member states signed the so-called aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, whose main objective is to improve the public's ability to participate in environmental matters and to actively contribute to improving the conservation and protection of the environment. signature of the aarhus convention requires the adoption of measures legally binding on the institutions and bodies of the union, and this provision does so specifically with regard to the three pillars of the convention, access to information, public participation in decision-making processes and access to justice and to judicial review in environmental matters. access to high-quality information (preferably made available in public databases) must now be regarded as a basic right of citizens. only by establishing rules on such access will we be able to make an effective contribution to ensuring public control in an area which concerns everyone - genuine environmental citizenship, including access to justice in environmental matters at eu level.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal follows two other initiatives - public access to environmental information and public participation in the preparation of certain environmental plans and programmes - which are intended to contribute to the implementation of the aarhus convention of the united nations economic commission for europe (ece) on access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters. the european parliament's report contains certain aspects which i welcome, in particular the extension of the definition of 'qualified body' (specifically to include local authorities), the possibility of involving private organisations as it says 'to take account of the increasing privatisation of functions which have traditionally been public', or the guarantee that bodies which do not have the financial means to bear the costs can participate. this is a final instrument which could help to strengthen the actions taken by societies to protect their living conditions and the environment in which they live.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report should be seen in the context of the important package on the environment and more specifically on the incorporation of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment (three pillars) into eu law. it also aims to address shortcomings in the monitoring of the implementation of environmental legislation. the proposed directive sets out minimum requirements for access to civil and criminal proceedings in environmental matters and explicitly defines the criteria which can ensure better implementation of environmental legislation with the least possible impact. as i said, particularly in my explanation of vote for the korhola report, there must be effective public control in an area which concerns us all, genuine citizen control in order to protect our environmental heritage. this proposal formalises the conditions under which this control can be carried out in a democratic way. however, i did not vote for or against in the final vote, because the report does not specify its position on the convention, which has already been signed by the member states, and this gave me some reservations.
in writing. - (pt) the following the commission communication, which addressed, inter alia, the treatment of mine waste in the light of the specific characteristics of mines and the considerable differences between the sub-sectors of the extractive industries, work has been undertaken to re-examine eu environmental policy in the light of recent mine accidents, such as those in baie mare in romania and aznacollar in spain. i naturally support this proposal because it sets out some minimum requirements to improve the treatment of waste from the extractive industries including the environmental and human risks associated with waste treatment and disposal. in addition, the kind of recycling of waste advocated by the proposal aims at conserving resources, thus reducing the pressure on the exploitation of natural resources. the measures in the directive therefore seek to cover sectors which pose serious risks to the environment and health or which pose potential risks of serious accidents, taking particular account of the structural aspects of an environmental policy which, as the eu proposes, should be sustainable. finally, i would like to highlight some important amendments which aim to protect small quarries which must comply with the requirements of the directive. i voted yes.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in order to comply with its international obligations, the eu must formally approve the decision to conclude the aarhus convention. the purpose of the convention, which was adopted at the ministerial conference 'environment for europe' held in aarhus on 25 june 1998, is to facilitate access to information on the environment and to improve public participation in decisions which may have an impact on the environment, and we could add a 'third pillar', namely access to judicial review in the field of the environment. the stockholm declaration on the human environment of 16 june 1972 stated that everyone has the right to live "in an environment of a quality which permits a life of dignity and comfort" . . . the maastricht treaty commits the eu to mainstreaming environmental protection in all its policies. this initiative is therefore in line with article 175 (4) of the ec treaty, which expressly states that member states are to ensure that environmental policy is implemented, and this is also another important step towards the desired sustainability of the eu's development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european satellite navigation system is as efficient and reliable as possible. the commission therefore proposes the creation of two bodies: a supervisory authority and a safety centre. the proposed supervisory authority shall be a commission institution. as the owner of the galileo infrastructure, the commission is also responsible for controlling the satellite navigation system. the security centre shall guarantee the operational and external security of the system. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestion that the know-how found in existing structures should be incorporated into the new institutions, in particular by transferring knowledge from the european space agency (an organisation which had been very closely involved in the programme) to the supervisory authority. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is important to strike the right balance between the independence of the supervisory authority and the transparency of its appointment procedures. i particularly agree that an annual report by its director to the european parliament would not in itself provide a sufficient guarantee of this transparency. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) i support this initiative because it is a step forward towards establishing a system of judicial and police cooperation which is necessary if the area of freedom, security and justice is to become a reality. this framework decision aims to replace simple cooperation in criminal matters with the principle of mutual recognition. it should therefore allow for faster and more efficient cooperation, while at the same time making the european arrest warrant more effective. it will make it possible to issue a european evidence preservation order for certain objects, documents and information for use in criminal proceedings, provided that these objects are already present in the executing member state. however, measures such as the european arrest warrant and the european arrest warrant will only be effective if they are implemented in all member states. we can therefore only regret that the framework decision on the european arrest warrant has not yet been fully implemented in the eu as of 1 january 2004. only eight member states have implemented it. i am therefore pleased that the recent summit set a deadline of june for the implementation of measures to combat terrorism already adopted, including the european arrest warrant. i hope that the measures adopted in the wake of 11 september 2001 will now finally be implemented. it all depends on political will, and the political will seems to be there!
in writing. - (pt) it is regrettable that the european parliament has not adopted the position of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and has rejected this initiative of the commission. this proposal is in line with the federalist model, which attempts to remove from the member states fundamental competences which are central to their sovereignty. this would jeopardize the rights, guarantees and freedoms of their citizens. the european arrest warrant is a cousin of the european arrest warrant, which was adopted, let us not forget, under the pretext of 'fighting terrorism'. as has been stated, the commission's main objective is to replace the current legal aid mechanisms based on international conventions with a system of mutual recognition, which requires that a decision in a member state be recognised directly without the need to convert it into a national decision. as has been pointed out, the process is proceeding without the creation of safeguards to protect the citizens of each state, because if the prospect of cooperation between states is jeopardized, the guarantees secured at this level are also in danger. it is also regrettable that amendments seeking to ensure that the rights, guarantees and freedoms guaranteed under the sovereignty of each people in each state are respected have been rejected.
in writing. - (pt) the this report deals with a proposal to enable a member state to issue a european arrest warrant which can be executed in other member states. in other words, the european search warrant is a judicial order issued in a member state for the specific purpose of securing documents and information for use in criminal proceedings which can be executed in other member states, without it needing to be converted into a judicial order in that member state. in the form proposed, the european preservation order will make it possible to secure evidence already available in the executing state. however, it cannot be used to initiate actions or to request the carrying out of investigations in the form of interrogations, hearings, interception, surveillance, etc. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. what i do not welcome are the references to procedural guarantees in amendments nos 5 and 7. this report is about the european arrest warrant and as this is not the place to discuss the issue of procedural guarantees, i have no choice but to vote against it.
- doc. β 2­1085/87 by mr de gucht and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the european community; the tripartite composition of the centre's board of directors is reflected in the participation of representatives of governments, employers' and workers' organisations, with the commission as the fourth participant in the board, which gives its opinions greater legitimacy and enables it to take more informed and effective decisions. the proposed amendments to the basic regulation of cedefop are designed to increase the centre's capacity to respond to the forthcoming enlargement and to provide an institutional framework which is more efficient and flexible. i fully support the involvement of all the social partners in consultations on a social project which will lead to an increase in vocational skills and jobs and, in time, to an improvement in the quality of work. to do this, i believe, greater emphasis should be placed on informing the citizens of europe about this and the work of other agencies to raise awareness of the enrichment, individually and collectively, that can be reaped from continuing vocational training.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in december 2003, the commission exceeded its powers and concluded an agreement with the united states on the transfer of passenger data. it was only later that it proposed this to the council and parliament. as we have said before, we are staunch opponents of this agreement. under the pretext of "fighting terrorism", personal information covering 34 categories - including phone numbers, credit card details, political views, family relationships, religious beliefs and health status - is to be transferred to the united states without any guarantees or effective monitoring. this situation only shows how the so-called 'war on terror' is being used to undermine civil rights, freedoms and guarantees. as we have said before, this is an unacceptable and illegal agreement which violates the eu directive on the protection of personal data. the responsibility for ensuring the protection of citizens with regard to basic information on air passengers currently lies with the individual countries, but this agreement will remove any competence of individual countries which could block the transfer in order to defend the rights of citizens. we therefore agree with the general intention of this resolution, particularly as it calls on the commission to block the current system of transferring information to the united states and to withdraw its motion for a resolution.
the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. we welcome steps to provide a greater understanding of environmental threats to human health, to identify diseases caused by environmental factors, and to plan policy responses to the challenges that arise. however, i cannot help but wonder whether we would be better served by assessing and demonstrating the impact of existing policies in force at eu level. this could be the effect of the cap on large farms, liberalisation policies that encourage the privatisation of essential public services, such as access to water, which focus only on profit (for the few), or the dilution of the kyoto targets by creating an emissions market that prioritises the interests of large companies. there are many other examples. it is therefore a pity that the report only briefly refers to the need for a 'multi-disciplinary approach'. the report also stresses the need to apply the precautionary principle in cases where research is not conclusive but where there is a potential serious or irreversible threat to health or the environment, particularly in the context of the debate on genetically modified organisms (gmos).
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the present strategy aims at reducing diseases caused by environmental factors. in fact, a recent report on the subject by the european environment agency revealed that in large european cities, about 60,000 deaths a year can be related to long-term exposure to air pollution. the risk is greater in children than in adults. in line with the european strategy on environment and health proposed by the commission, the council adopted a number of conclusions to be implemented in the scale strategy. between 2004 and 2010, scale will focus on the four main public health drivers - paediatric respiratory diseases, asthma, allergies, neurological disorders, paediatric cancers and hormonal disorders - and on the programme's three ultimate objectives, namely to reduce the number of diseases caused by environmental factors, to identify and prevent new health threats caused by environmental factors and to strengthen the eu's capacity to conduct policy in this area. the commission therefore intends to set up an integrated european system for monitoring the environment and health and for taking action where necessary. this will create synergies and facilitate the exchange of data and working methods to achieve a better understanding ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- the next item is the report (a5-0206/2004) by mr baltas, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on croatia's application for eu membership (2003/2254 (ini)).
- thank you very much, mr. volcic. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0207/2004) by mrs boumediene-thiery, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on respect for fundamental rights in the european union in 2003.
mr president, among the important references in this annual report to human rights policy, drawing attention to the numerous abuses that exist in the european union and that are worsening and presenting concrete proposals to solve them, i would highlight the reference to the fact that in the european union many women still do not enjoy the right to abortion, as is currently the case in portugal, where, moreover, they continue to be tried in court. i would stress the way in which the rapporteur urges member states to ensure equal access for all women, including young women, the poor and immigrants, to safe and legal abortion, emergency contraception, affordable sexual and reproductive health services and sex education. i hope that the portuguese government and the political majority in my country will finally take this proposal into account. i would also like to stress the way in which the report condemns all forms of violence against women and calls for the fight against and elimination of violence against women and children in europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is one of the most revolting expressions of the emerging international crime and, because of its specific nature, the trafficking of children is something that revolts us even more. the trafficking of children for the purpose of organ harvesting is the most abominable expression of this immoral and repugnant trade. from an ethical point of view, it is completely immaterial to me to discuss the reasons that motivate these criminal activities, whether it be the practice of witchcraft, the trade in organs or anything else. there are human beings who need our support and protection, who either lose vital organs or end up losing their lives in the process. recently released data denounce the repeated practice of these criminal acts in mozambique. we cannot help but be concerned about that. the human sensibility of the drama is complemented by linguistic proximity and cultural ties. i therefore welcome the holding of this debate, as well as the debate which took place yesterday in the portuguese parliament at the initiative of mrs teresa morais. i also congratulate the portuguese prime minister, dr durão barroso, for raising the issue with the mozambican president during his official visit to that country. i would like to say three things on this subject: first, we must fight this crime wherever it occurs. i do not think there is any other opinion on this matter. the trafficking of persons, and especially of children, for the purpose of organ harvesting is a horrific trade which must be combated and is one of the emerging expressions of international crime. all the experts agree: most of the organized networks are international. this, like other types of crime, transcends the boundaries of each national state. if we are to effectively combat crime, identify criminals and protect victims, we need to strengthen international cooperation. and that brings us to the second point: there is no need to have complexes about the degree of our development. i have already written that the reluctance of some countries to acknowledge that this type of crime exists on their territory has to do with the prejudice that it only exists in underdeveloped countries. now, the truth is that this kind of horrible activity is happening everywhere, because it is as much a crime to buy as it is a crime to sell human organs, and because there are fewer and fewer borders for the world of crime. on 23 october last year we heard in this house a proposal for a framework decision aimed at promoting the fight against trafficking in human organs and tissues, to which both the presidency of the council and commissioner antónio vitorino referred. at that time i expressed our concern at the emergence of this phenomenon and referred to the shocking number of kidnappings in brazil and guatemala, as well as the alarming news coming at that time from the applicant countries, in particular from hungary and the czech republic. i have called for an integrated community approach and for the definition of both the offences associated with trafficking in human organs and tissues and the corresponding sanctions to be harmonised. third and last, don't be afraid of help. we have an imperative to help in the name of humanitarian causes which we subscribe to, but also in the interest, which must be common, of putting an end to this despicable business and dismantling existing international networks. and so we are making it clear to the commission and the council that we have an obligation to help. we have recorded the statement of commissioner poul nielson on this subject. the commissioner also stated at the time that the mozambican authorities had not yet requested such cooperation, and we therefore want to tell the governments and the judicial and police authorities of the states concerned that they need not fear international help in combating these crimes. in doing so we are not diminishing ourselves, but rather strengthening the instruments and means to fight a common evil.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i am glad that the question we raised about human and child trafficking in mozambique has given rise to a wider debate on the illicit trade in human tissues and organs, not only at the level of the european union but even on a wider scale. in fact, there is nothing more abominable than turning a human being, who should be an end in himself, who should be respected in his integrity and dignity, into a kind of object where an organ is to be taken and transplanted into another person. this is so abominable that the european union must be shocked and we must all, parliament, the commission and the council, fight to provide ourselves with the means to prevent this trafficking from continuing to proliferate and become ever more widespread and contribute, ever more, to enriching a few unscrupulous people and criminal networks. but i wanted to refer to mozambique. in mozambique there is a mystery surrounding nampula. there 's child trafficking - fifty children are reported missing, probably abducted and sacrificed, either for organ harvesting for witchcraft, magic or satanic rites, or for sexual slavery, or to have their organs harvested and sold in an international network. there is a great mystery about whether or not there is an international network of child trafficking for organ harvesting in mozambique. the mozambican church says the suspicions are well founded and that there are fears that this network is operating. mozambican authorities have made contradictory statements on the matter, ranging from appeasing statements that there is no evidence of the existence of this trafficking, to statements that there are signs pointing in the direction of the existence of this network. and so, commissioner, mr president, i ask you to put pressure on the mozambican authorities to clarify this matter. we must clarify this, we must help the people of nampula, the children of nampula and mozambique, to live in peace.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the trafficking of human organs is a new kind of modern-day piracy, a particularly sordid and brutal kind of piracy. he mutilates some for the survival of others. it can go to the extreme of stalking, kidnapping and killing. his criteria is greed, his scruples none. the fight against this reality must therefore be firm, total, and unhesitating. not all cases are the same. there are cases where the trade in one's own organs is not suppressed by the authorities, where someone can trade, for example, one's own kidney for a handful of dollars. even there, freedom is only apparent and the reality remains that of a sordid piracy that exploits the misery of hapless donors. this shameful trade, which is against human dignity and integrity, and the violence it is, fuels a vicious market, encourages extremely dangerous criminal activities and the development of international mafia networks. once this abject market has been allowed to exist where there are not enough marketable organs, crime is free to try to fill the supply gap, resorting, if necessary, to kidnapping and murder. the principle of free donation for transplants is a basic principle of civilization, a fundamental requirement of human dignity and of our own security and freedom. wherever it is, we are all in the abstract threatened by this real organized assault on the human body. the european union must enforce the principle of free movement within its own territory and devote all its energy to upholding it and ensuring that it is respected throughout the world. wherever it is not, there is a criminal threat that is emerging or already at work. the european union must also take the lead in the international fight against this contemporary scourge, one of the darkest facets of international crime in our day. it must quickly adopt the framework decision proposed by the greek presidency, ensure that all member states are absolutely impenetrable to such trafficking, whether as suppliers, as recipients or as trading platforms, and react promptly and promptly to any complaint from anywhere in the world. recently, attention has been drawn to suspicions coming from the regions of mozambique in east africa. the criminal facts are not yet fully clear, but that is why we must continue to act until everything is as transparent as water and tranquility are returned to the restless populations. the courage and tenacity of religious organisations and human rights activists in denouncing dozens of unexplained disappearances of children and young people, with some mutilated bodies found in the meantime, must be fully matched by us. we cannot give in to counter-information, nor be daunted by the apparent obscurity. it is possible that there are several tragic realities in nampula or elsewhere, and not just one, perhaps also trafficking in people and children, perhaps organs for witchcraft or other non-clinical uses, and perhaps the suspected trafficking of human organs feeding international networks. we don't know, but that's why we can't rest until we know everything. and all of this is worth fighting for, because in any case, it is abject crime and trafficking, which no one can rest easy. sometimes the authorities' behaviour in dealing with these terrible cases is embarrassing, falling into contradictions or seeming to hesitate in the face of complaints. no one likes to see the name of their country internationally mentioned in this regard. we have to understand that. and we will always treat any country with respect. but, with patience and perseverance, we must be able to say that the problem is not embarrassment, the problem is trafficking, the drama is crime. and this kind of crime has to be investigated and fought by everyone all over the world, because this crime has no country, this crime is treacherous and piratical, this threat is international and it affects us all. whether it is to israel or south africa, to asian circuits, to europe or america and whether it is originating in mozambique or poor regions of brazil, whether in moldova or albania, in the torn balkans, in the vastness of africa, in depressed central asia or in the poorest suburbs of asian or latin american cities, we know where this trafficking strikes. like vultures, this organized assault on the human body watches over regions of human misery and where the authority of the state is weak. it pursues lands where the individual and the community are most vulnerable. that's when he attacks where he sees the poorest, where he senses the weakest. so here too we must act by cooperating with the competent authorities, raising awareness, encouraging them, making our loans available, confronting and cross-referencing information, promoting the full clarification of the truth, protecting the peace of mind of the people and dismantling the networks wherever they exist. we are counting on the diligence of the commission and the council, and i would like to see the council acting with the level of diligence that the commission has already shown here. whether it's mozambique or wherever in the world these complaints come from.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the fourth protocol on fishing conditions between the european union and greenland is a good thing because it is based on truth, transparency and reciprocity. we no longer have, as the commissioner said, paper fish or virtual fish, but we have a relationship between the financial contributions of the european union and the fishing that can really be done because there are fish to be caught. i therefore welcome this revision and i welcome even more the report by mrs rosa miguélez ramos, which is a correct report, a very well structured report, and above all her words, her speech, which has allowed us to really situate the central political problem of this issue. i also welcome the intervention of commissioner antónio vitorino, whose knowledge of fisheries matters does not surprise me, since his many talents enable him to speak about fisheries with a wisdom that amazes me. and here i was convinced that he only appreciated the good fish on the plate... but i really hope that commissioner vitorino will still come and give us lessons in particle physics and molecular biology. (laughter) he has the intelligence and the talent for all of this. but, returning to the political question raised by mrs rosa miguélez ramos, there is the unjust and there is the 'anti-historical' - now that historicism is out of fashion, let me say the anti-historic - removal of spaniards and portuguese from greenland's fishing grounds. because if the spanish and portuguese were the first to discover routes to this world outside, they also discovered centuries ago the fisheries in greenland, from which they were removed. there is now an opportunity to correct this injustice, and this opportunity to correct the injustice consists in allowing the quotas not used by the states which have them to be used by countries like portugal and spain without this signifying a kind of submission of these countries to the authorities of the countries which have the quotas. we are not dealing here with some kind of feudal law, a modern feudal law that has been invented with quotas allocated to a country and then ceded or not to the european union country which, within the framework of the community fisheries policy, wants to use them. i therefore wholeheartedly support the position of mrs rosa miguélez ramos that the european union and the commission should be able to allocate unused fishing quotas to countries such as portugal and spain that wish to use them.
in writing. in 2003, a new protocol was agreed with greenland for the period 1 january 2004 to 31 december 2006, as part of the mid-term review of the fourth protocol laying down the terms of the fisheries agreement between greenland and the european community. this revision introduces a number of adjustments without altering the amount of the financial compensation of eur 42 820 000 per year, but it provides greater clarity in the division between the part intended to compensate for fishing opportunities and development support. we welcome the increase in the alabat quotas, in particular the possibility for the national fleet to catch 800 tonnes of greenland alabat. however, it is recalled that at the time of accession portugal was excluded from this agreement, despite its historical fishing rights in the region. however, given the degree of under-utilisation of quotas, it is important to ensure the principle of sound financial management, i.e. that the fishing opportunities offered by international fisheries agreements are effectively used, without jeopardizing the principle of relative stability. the report and the commission proposal open up this possibility of redistributing the quotas which were under-used in the year in question, but we think that amendment no 5 is a more acceptable text which should be adopted in plenary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and the illegal trade in stolen vehicles. theft of cars amounts to about 1.2 million vehicles a year in the member states of the union and has exceeded this figure in previous years, which implies considerable losses amounting to at least eur 15 billion a year. it is therefore essential to combat this form of crime, which causes not only material damage but also physical and psychological damage when accompanied by various forms of violence and which interferes, as the commissioner has just said, with the sense of justice and the feeling of security of citizens. more than 3,300 vehicles are stolen every day, which means that one is stolen every 25 seconds. since i began this speech, two vehicles have probably been stolen, and i hope that none of them belong to any of the members present. it is therefore intended that, by means of an amendment to the schengen convention, public car registration authorities should have direct access to certain categories of data contained in the sis, the schengen information system, while private car registration services should only be entitled to request indirect access through an authority with access to sis. this will help to make sis an even more important tool in the fight against crime, as these authorities will be able to check quickly and effectively whether a vehicle whose registration is requested has been stolen, misused or lost. the functioning of the internal market is thus improved by strengthening the principle of free movement and, consequently, by favouring the progressive establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice and the implementation of the common transport policy. why the direct access? so that vehicles stolen in one country can be registered in another and thus legalized in good time. it is estimated that 30% to 40% of vehicles are stolen by criminal organisations which transform them and export them to other countries inside and outside the union. in large numbers, the operation is achievable in less than 48 hours. there are thus two main arguments: first, efficiency. there are several million vehicles registered in the european union. it would be a huge job for the police to systematically check all these vehicles in sis. some 15 million vehicles are submitted for registration each year. direct access thus allows for an easier and faster way of checking the legal status of a vehicle, which translates into efficiency. secondly, the question of transparency. at present, all member states have found ways of trying to check, at the time of registration of the vehicle, whether it has been stolen, with more or less reliability in the information. all these forms, however, are relatively opaque and complicated. the inclusion of an article in the schengen convention would make everything more transparent than it is at present. and what kind of data are we talking about? data may only be accessed for motor vehicles with a cylinder capacity of more than 55 cm3, for trailers and for caravans with a dry weight of less than 750 kg. i proposed that access be added to data which are not yet in sis, namely vehicle registration documents and registration plates for stolen, misappropriated or lost vehicles, because it is only with this data in sis that the desired objectives can be achieved. the spanish initiatives on the new functions of the sis, in particular on the fight against terrorism, which we have approved here, already provided for the introduction of these data into the sis, but due to a reservation from denmark they have not yet been approved. it is expected that this will happen very soon. i also propose that the proposal for access to data relating to identity documents, as recommended in the opinion of the common supervisory authority, and to data relating to blank official documents, which is too broad and vague a concept, be withdrawn. the data set to which the competent public authorities will have access is thus clearly defined and limited to what is necessary and appropriate, with any access to data that could be considered as more sensitive being withdrawn, limiting access only to data on objects: vehicles. i therefore ask the house to support this initiative and at the same time to reject the proposal put forward by the socialist group's shadow rapporteur, mrs pacciotti, who advocates that the current situation of indirect access be maintained. if this bill passes, everything will go on as before and we will not see any improvement in the fight against these crimes. i think i have been clear about the evidence of the values involved, which demonstrate the need for us to find new ways of combating motor vehicle crime, because the situation as it stands cannot be maintained. mrs paccioti is concerned that by giving direct access we are multiplying the risks of personal data breaches. i have always advocated the strictest protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, including their right to the protection of personal data. but i do not believe that the amendments i tabled to the commission's original proposal, all of which were approved by the committee on civil liberties, put the protection of personal data at risk. public car registration authorities will have clearly defined and limited access to what is necessary and appropriate, that is only in relation to objects - the vehicles - by asking the system whether or not the vehicle in question is listed as stolen. to refuse to take this step, mr president, would be, in my view, a wrong decision, because it would be ineffective in this fight, and would send the wrong signal to our fellow citizens who require more cooperation and more effectiveness in fighting crime and ensuring their safety.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am aware, as are we all, of the serious problems affecting our tradition of asylum today. in a world that is becoming ever closer together, ever more interconnected and ever more connected by sophisticated means of communication, in which islands of wealth, peace and well-being coexist with worlds of poverty, war and misery, it is only logical that there should be enormous migratory pressures from disadvantaged areas to the more affluent areas. but this large mass of migration, whose main component is economic, is endangering the survival of the asylum system, as many economic migrants, unable to find another legal way into rich countries, try to use the asylum route to secure their entry into the european union. i therefore welcomed the two commission communications. it is essential to develop the european asylum system as called for by the tampere european council. however, new policies must be developed taking into account new realities and facts that were not taken into account at the time because mixed flows of refugees and economic migrants did not exist in such large proportions as today. it is clear that asylum seekers will continue to arrive freely at the external borders of the union. the present tampere system is largely designed for them. it is therefore essential to maintain what is already in the acquis and adopt the directives still awaiting agreement in the council in order to complete the first part of the tampere agreement on refugee status and asylum procedures and move on to a new second phase of development. it therefore proposes that the council be urged to adopt the directives i have just mentioned as soon as possible, as was repeatedly requested at the laeken, seville and thessaloniki councils. it is clear that the present system has many dysfunctions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected, and that the right to asylum is guaranteed. i therefore agree with the commission's position that new methods of asylum should be considered, new methods more suited to reality. a new policy for managing the arrival of asylum seekers in the european union should be developed, mainly through a system of refugee resettlement at union level and through the protected entry procedure. asylum and immigration are two phenomena which, although distinct, are closely linked, but which must be examined together. i repeat that economic aid for the development of the regions of origin of migratory flows must be increased unequivocally with the aim of reducing them and also for reasons of solidarity with the poorest countries and those most in need. i therefore ask that the union develop a legal immigration policy so that economic migrants do not resort to seeking asylum as the only way of legally entering european territory, thereby seriously jeopardising the survival of the institution. europe, mr president, is a land of asylum. protecting it is the best way to maintain this humanitarian tradition.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur, mr luís marinho, has already pointed out, more and more people are seeking better opportunities or protection outside their country, trying to escape persecution, war, violations of human rights or simply poverty and unemployment. in accordance with the amsterdam and nice treaties, and taking into account the results of the tampere summit, we have been adopting various measures and legal instruments in relation to three different realities that exist, namely asylum seekers, temporarily displaced persons and economic migrants. it can be said that all the member states are currently facing, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, a crisis in the asylum system, caused by the misuse of their procedures and the increase in mixed flows, often fuelled by trafficking networks, which are having a negative effect, manifesting themselves in a growing malaise among the public. as such, it is essential that we develop a policy which includes the three essential aspects: first, respect for the geneva convention; second, the legitimate aspiration of third country nationals to seek better living conditions; and third, the reception capacity of each member state and of the european union as a whole. at the heart of this balanced policy should always be a common framework of related measures, detailed in tampere, and harmonized, transparent, efficient and rapid procedures should also be adopted. we must say that although the commission has drawn up proposals on basically all the areas of asylum policy referred to in these conclusions, and parliament's opinion has been requested, after five years we are still awaiting the decisions of the council, which has failed to meet the deadlines set by the european councils of tampere, laeken, seville and thessaloniki. the need to adopt rapidly the outstanding proposals for directives on minimum standards in the field of asylum and immigration was stressed in thessaloniki and the commission was also asked to explore all the criteria likely to ensure that the entry into the european union of these persons in need of international protection can be processed in a more orderly and better managed way and to consider how the regions of origin can better guarantee the safety of these persons. today's debate thus focuses on the report by mr luís marinho, whom i congratulate on the quality of his work, and which is based on two commission communications which, although with different motivations, nevertheless address the basic premises and objectives of a possible redefinition of asylum systems characterized by better management, more accessible and equitable, adding new ways of completing the approach gradually adopted in tampere. in my view, mr president, in order to maintain a general and coherent approach in the establishment of a common european policy on asylum and immigration, it is essential that the following aspects are always taken into account: the existence of legal immigration channels, an integration policy, joint management of migration flows, an intensification of external border controls, a european asylum system, the negotiation of readmission agreements and a common return policy, an effective fight against trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration and support for the victims.
mr president, our colleague mr oostlander, who has worked so hard on this report, raises a number of politically relevant questions concerning the process of turkey's accession to the european union. i would like to highlight two: the first concerns the level of preparation of the european union itself for the future integration of this great eurasian country. what is the impact of your eventual accession? what are the geopolitical constraints arising from the assumption of new external borders for the union, which would become not only non-european borders but also neighbouring borders of armed conflict? how should we view the demographic dimension of turkey's application and the effects it will have on the existing institutional balances? and does turkey's accession strengthen the security of the european union and make its foreign policy more credible and effective in the region? as for the cap, can this common policy be maintained? in what ways? what about the structural funds? these findings do not represent any lesser appreciation on our part for the great turkish nation, quite the contrary. they simply mean that, from our point of view, there is still no public, open and calm debate on this matter, which we consider absolutely essential, at european level. that is why we support the proposal by our fellow rapporteur to ask the commission to undertake a comprehensive study of the impact of turkey's accession to the union, informing parliament and the council of the internal changes that will have to be introduced in the union and the need to reform the current policy in the various key areas we have listed. the second question is, in a sense, the reverse of the first and concerns turkey's political will to continue in full with the necessary reforms of its structures and its institutional and legal framework in order to meet the copenhagen political criteria, as has happened with the other candidate countries. the rapporteur rightly believes that it is up to turkey at this stage to decide sovereignly whether it wants or can adopt as a precondition for the opening of negotiations the political principles and values of the union as being appropriate to the turkish state and society. in this respect, we must recognize that the present government has shown a strong political will and motivation to carry out important reforms in this area, reforms which are difficult and in many cases incomplete, because they clash with the traditions and practices of civil, judicial and military administration consolidated over decades, especially in the field of human rights. the choice of the so-called 'legislative harmonisation packages' has brought its legislation closer to union standards more quickly than would have resulted from a general revision of the basic legal codes on which the turkish political, judicial and legislative system is based, which is positive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we conclude by saying that the stage we are at must therefore be understood as one of mutual preparation for turkey's eventual accession to the european union: preparation on the part of the union, which must adapt itself at all levels to welcome the great turkish nation, and preparation on the part of this country, which must continue its efforts to implement effectively the necessary reforms in accordance with the copenhagen criteria. the outcome of this process must therefore be the natural result of this effort of mutual preparation and adaptation and not the result of any voluntarism which does not take account of the realities with which we are faced on both sides.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the internal market with free movement of goods and capital must necessarily be accompanied by close cooperation between member states to combat smuggling and tax evasion. these provisions are part of a package of legislation designed to strengthen mutual assistance between the competent authorities of the member states, in particular in the field of excise duties, where tobacco smuggling is of particular importance. the rapporteur regrets, however, that it is not possible at present to harmonize indirect taxes by means of legislation and therefore considers that cooperation is a temporary solution. we could not agree more, since cooperation is an effective way of combating tax fraud and organised crime, not only in the case of excise duties but also in the case of vat and other indirect taxes. it is above all a way of preserving national sovereignty. harmonisation would create other problems of an economic nature and for the tax bases of the member states. decentralised cooperation is therefore a good solution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it gives the eu the green light to adopt the convention on the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks in the western and central pacific. this convention is part of the objective of conservation and sustainable management of resources which the eu has pursued and seeks to promote. the western and central pacific ocean contains 60% of the world's tuna stock and is therefore of particular interest to community tuna and longliner vessels. to strengthen its fishing capacity and the resources available, the eu has signed various bilateral agreements with pacific coastal states, giving it access to new exclusive economic zones. by acceding to this convention, the eu will be able to participate actively in regional fisheries organisations, which are the most appropriate multilateral instrument for the effective conservation and management of fish stocks and the fight against illegal fishing. i support the european parliament's insistence that the eu should become a member of all existing regional fisheries organisations in which the community sector has a legitimate interest, in order to promote responsible fishing and defend the interests of the fisheries sector.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not depleted. this instrument is intended to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of highly migratory fish stocks in this area through the establishment of a fisheries commission, the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc). the importance of the wcpfc's remit speaks for itself. the area covered by this regional fisheries organization covers 60% of the world's tuna stock and currently has five large community tuna trawlers, with a catch of some 15 000 tonnes per year. in addition, the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the growing importance of regional fisheries organisations, 'as multilateral bodies for the management of resources and as ideal fora for settling disputes between parties and for the implementation of sound management through the fight against illegal fishing'. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is of great importance for the member states that the community should also become a full member of this regional fisheries organization in order to defend the interests of the community fisheries sector in these areas as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's genetic diversity is not lost. the commission is now proposing to establish a new community programme on the conservation, description, collection and exploitation of genetic resources in agriculture. the programme follows the rejection by the european parliament and the council of the commission's previous proposal in 2001 to fund national measures in this field, which was unacceptable, also because it removed the strategic importance of ensuring the conservation of genetic diversity, particularly in the light of the community's obligations under various international un conventions. this was and is even more incomprehensible when one considers the threat to genetic diversity posed by the possible lifting of the de facto moratorium on genetically modified organisms. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's genetic heritage and the diversity of food crops, including local and regional specificities, are preserved. this requires local measures to support farmers in maintaining their traditional species and breeds and marketing their products on local and regional markets. we regret that the proposed financial framework for the programme is very narrow in view of the needs identified by the member states and also by the european parliament.
in writing. - (pt) in view of the political and economic situation in guinea-bissau, we understand the importance of the rapid adoption of the amended protocol as a signal to support the efforts of the authorities of guinea-bissau to normalize the situation in the country. we also know the situation of the fish stocks off the coast of guinea-bissau, due to overfishing and the lack of measures and means of control. we find acceptable the objectives of the amendments to the current protocol, agreed in may 2003, which include reductions in fishing effort and support measures to promote sustainable fishing. although we do not wish to jeopardize the adoption of the proposal, we have strong reservations about its distribution among the fishing fleets, since we note that the portuguese fleet's capacity for discarding trawls is reduced by 65%, which is more than the average of the overall reduction in brt. in addition, a licence for longliners with a flight line is missing, so that the agreement will cover only four longliners. it is therefore not clear what kind of assessment of the socioeconomic impact the commission has made of this proposal and what compensatory measures it intends to take. that is a question which we shall certainly pursue.
in the case of the gulf crisis, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement is implemented. guinea-bissau's waters, traditionally rich in fish and shellfish, have been suffering from overfishing. in addition, political instability, corruption and lack of control measures have affected the conditions of fishermen. in addition to extending the current agreement until 2006, the amendments are aimed in particular at reducing fishing effort, in particular by non-eu fleets, making better use of community funds and strengthening control measures. these changes will finally enable the guinea-bissau authorities to modernise the fisheries sector in order to improve the monitoring and patrol of the sea and to combat the over-exploitation of its resources. i also agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the importance of keeping the european parliament and the council informed of how the agreement is being managed so that a general evaluation can be made. finally, i hope that this fisheries agreement will make a modest contribution to the improvement of the economic and political situation in the republic of guinea-bissau. the european parliament is thus sending a positive signal by supporting the efforts of the authorities of guinea-bissau to normalize the situation in the country.
in the light of the recent events in guinea-bissau, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an assurance that the situation in guinea-bissau will continue to be the same. i recognize that the political authorities have sought to implement measures to improve the governance of the country, in contrast to the obvious breakdown under president kumba ialá. in this context, and as a country with few resources and many needs, the income from fisheries is of particular importance and therefore deserves special consideration. it is therefore essential to provide assistance to guinea-bissau to modernise its fishing sector in order to improve the monitoring and patrol of the sea and to combat the over-exploitation of its resources. i share the rapporteur's view that it is important for the european parliament to send a positive signal in support of the efforts of the authorities of guinea-bissau to normalize the situation in the country. despite the recent reports of unrest and riots in connection with the elections under way, i believe that with the support of the european union this african nation will be able to regain its stability. that is my sincere wish. it goes without saying that i voted in favour.
- the commission has found it necessary, as a follow-up to the strategy for sustainable development in the community aquaculture sector presented in september 2002 in the context of the revision of the common fisheries policy, to amend regulation (ec) no 2792/1999 on community structural measures in the fisheries sector, which contains specific provisions on support measures for community aquaculture, in order to clarify the definition of aquaculture, increase community aid for extensive fish farming, develop methods to reduce the environmental impact, support applied research and ensure financial compensation for shellfish producers in the event of the cessation of harvesting. although the proposals appear to be positive, especially with the improvements brought about by the rapporteur's amendments, there are two aspects which give rise to serious reservations. the first is the emphasis on the development of aquaculture, not as a complementary activity to fishing but as a substitute for fishing, which gives rise to serious reservations. systematic disposal and cessation of fishing activities should not be encouraged in order to replace catches with production which creates other problems in terms of the environment, food security and protection of coastal zones. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to combat fraud. secondly, the opportunity could have been taken to revise the regulation in general by raising the maximum amount of individual aid, which the amendments of the european parliament seek to meet, even if they are not far-reaching enough.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) once again, the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on a strategy for the sustainable development of community aquaculture in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy. in theory, the objectives pursued by the commission are commendable: protection of the environment, creation of long-term employment (in fisheries-dependent areas or where there are no alternatives), consumer guarantees of access to safe aquaculture products and ensuring high standards of animal health and welfare, and promotion of research. in practice, this is a very important matter, since it concerns the rules and conditions for community aid to the aquaculture sector. financial compensation to shellfish farmers in the event of the cessation of harvesting due to contamination by toxic algae deserves my support. however, the commission will not grant this aid in the event of repeated pollution and thus introduces unjustified discrimination against producers. i also reject the proposal that the harvest must be suspended for at least six months, even during periods of high sales, in order for a producer to be eligible for aid. that seems like a long time to me. finally, i regret once again that the trade associations are not involved in the applied research directed at this sector.
- in writing. - in 2003, the council adopted conclusions on a strategy for sustainable development of community aquaculture, the main objective of which is to create jobs and provide quality products from environmentally friendly production, in particular by re-directing public support from the fifg towards measures in the fields of training, monitoring, research into new species and promotion of environmentally friendly aquaculture technology. although i generally support the proposal which the commission has now put to the european parliament, there are two important proposals which the rapporteur has included in the report and which have given me confidence in how i should vote. the first concerns the reduction of the six-month period (proposed by the commission) for the cessation of production due to contamination by toxic algae, after which financial compensation is granted to shellfish producers. the second concerns the fact that this revision of the regulation is being used to introduce an amendment which does not concern aquaculture but which increases the maximum amount of individual aid to fishermen by 20% and which withdraws the requirement of permanent cessation of activity if recovery plans or emergency measures are adopted. since both proposals have been adopted, i have voted in favour of this report.
- the strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture emphasises aspects such as the protection of the environment, the creation of long-term employment, particularly in areas dependent on fisheries and where there are no alternatives, consumer guarantees of access to safe aquaculture products and the safeguarding of high standards of animal health and welfare, and the promotion of research, including by providing appropriate funding opportunities, for example, for the impact of aquaculture on the environment and on stock cultures. in view of the recommendations of this strategy and their implementation, it has been necessary to amend the financial instrument for fisheries development (fifg), i.e. regulation (ec) no 2792/1999. i welcome the clarification of the meaning of certain definitions, the proposed increase in community aid for extensive fish farming and the reduction of community aid for intensive fish farming, aid for applied research, development of methods to reduce the environmental impact and aid for traditional aquaculture (e.g. mollusc farming) in order to maintain the social structure in certain areas where there are no other alternatives. like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission's proposals are geared towards increased research and technological development and greater respect for the environment and sustainability in general. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) i agree with the rapporteur that the allocation of funds for improved controls is an essential part of the common fisheries policy, but that this is only one side of the coin, the other being the active involvement of fishermen in its management, because without the support of fishermen, the allocation of large appropriations to improve controls will not stop the serious infringements of the common fisheries policy. the commission proposal aims to extend (for two years) and amend the community aid scheme for the establishment of control structures, which expired in 2003, until a decision is taken on the common inspection structure, which the commission believes will be operational in 2006. the proposal, however, implies that only the new member states will have access to aid, and even then the aid may not exceed 35%. as an increase in the community contribution to heavy fishing control equipment is one of the ways in which the control capacity at sea can be strengthened, we support the rapporteur's amendments 8 and 12, which aim to extend the measure to all member states and increase the contribution to 50%. it should not be forgotten that portugal has the largest exclusive economic zone in the eu and a large number of vessels to monitor.
in writing. - (pt) i have had the opportunity to express my concern in the european parliament about the ineffectiveness of fisheries controls. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a daily reality in portugal. this initiative allows member states to apply for a community contribution to part-finance specific projects aimed at improving the monitoring of fishing activities. it is just another building block in the development of a policy for sustainable fisheries. in this context, i support the introduction of crossborder exchange of information, as it is a simple and useful instrument for imposing effective, proportionate and above all dissuasive sanctions within the whole of the eu. it is also unfortunate that there is such a wide disparity in the sanctions applied in the eu for the same infringements. this problem is all the more serious since there are no indicators to assess the effectiveness of monitoring. the eu has no information on the number of inspections or infringements found, infringement procedures initiated, etc. i also support the rapporteur in saying that surveillance should not only be carried out on board vessels but also on land. finally, the community's incentives to member states to acquire heavy-duty fisheries control equipment must be strengthened. at the same time, the initiative to simplify and tighten up the allocation of aid must be welcomed.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the adoption of the regulation on the conservation and sustainable development of fisheries resources has broadened the objectives of the common fisheries policy and has therefore also brought new implementing provisions, which not only involve the development and introduction of effective monitoring tools, but also professional training and technical and administrative cooperation between all the sectors and institutions concerned. the commission now wishes to extend and amend the previous scheme for two years in order to strengthen and streamline the means and methods of monitoring and inspection in an enlarged union and to prepare the new common inspection structure for its operation. the problem is the availability of community aid for a surveillance operation involving the purchase of 'heavy equipment', which the commission has not wished to address in its proposal, but would rather give the new member states access to the available funds. since this is particularly important for portugal, which has the largest exclusive economic zone in the eu and a large number of vessels to monitor, it is necessary to ensure that portugal is not excluded from this aid, or at least part of it. i voted in favour of the report because it meets that important wish.
in writing. - (pt) regulation (ec) no 3069/95 provides for the presence of an observer on board all fishing vessels operating in the north-west atlantic ocean and regulated by nafo. the commission has so far ensured the implementation of this regulation on community vessels operating in these waters and has borne all the costs of the observers, and that is how it should be. however, the present proposal is intended to make the member states themselves responsible for the observers and the associated costs as from 1 january 2004, which we cannot accept in any way. although the recent revision of the common fisheries policy means that the monitoring obligations are incumbent on the member states, we are talking here about monitoring within their exclusive economic zones, which is not in contradiction with community financing of the monitoring effort. i have therefore voted against the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the fact that we are voting for these regulations should not be taken as an endorsement of the views expressed by the rapporteur. as regards euro coins, it is essential that the public be protected against any fraud and, in this particular case, from confusion with medals and coin counterfeits. since the introduction of the euro, the use of counterfeit euro coins in coin-operated machines has increased. these regulations set out the degree of equality that should be prohibited in medals and coin counterfeits similar to euro coins. it is another instrument for combating counterfeiting of euro coins and banknotes. although we all agree with these measures, we simply reject the rapporteur's declaration of faith in the success of the single currency and in the european parliament's 'unreasonable' support for the 'historic project of economic and monetary union and the single currency'. not only because the practical problems are beginning to emerge as time goes on, as is shown by the inflationary trends and the rising bank charges, but because, at the economic and monetary level, a thorough evaluation of the impact of the euro on economic growth and employment must be carried out, especially in the less developed member states such as portugal.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) two years after the introduction of the single currency, it is now time to analyse the situation surrounding the euro and, on that basis, to propose solutions to the problems identified. the aim is not least to protect the public against all forms of fraud and to safeguard the currency. the increasing use of counterfeit euro coins in coin-operated machines has been noted and neither the legislation of the member states nor that of the community has been able to contain the problem to the extent necessary. the increase in the number of countries in which the euro is in circulation makes it all the more necessary and necessary to adopt measures in this respect. the proposal prohibits certain degrees of similarity between medals and coin counterparts resembling euro coins and lays down guidelines for the companies producing these medals and coin counterparts. representatives of the sector concerned have been thoroughly consulted and support the proposed legislation. the regulation is also intended to apply to those states which have signed agreements with the eu and use the euro, such as monaco, san marino and the vatican city state. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) i thank mrs maes for the report she has drawn up, which i support. it deals with a very important issue, namely the increase in the safety of third country aircraft using community airports. i therefore vote in favour of the joint text at third reading, a text which contains three elements which i consider very important: - the uniform application of inspection procedures throughout the eu, which prevents flights from third countries avoiding other eu airports with less demanding checks; - public access to information on airline compliance with safety rules; - the right of the european authorities to inspect an aircraft and impose a flight ban if it is suspected of not complying with safety rules.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in its communication on aviation safety published last year, the commission expressed concern about the link between the increasing number of accidents and the increase in air traffic. the council had already tried to draw up a directive on this subject, but the long-standing conflict over gibraltar prevented it from achieving the desired result. the solution to this problem created the necessary conditions for taking an important step in this field. the commission thus took the initiative in the field of aviation safety and, in strict compliance with the safa procedure, sought to ensure systematic checks on aircraft suspected of posing a risk to aviation safety, on three crucial points: the targeted collection and dissemination of information, the checks on crews and third-country aircraft at community airports and the implementation of appropriate measures to correct the deficiencies identified, including flight bans if deemed necessary. in the light of recent tragic events, i believe it is essential to strengthen aviation safety, including through more effective and thorough checks on third country aircraft, which is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report is part of the process of adapting the administration of the european parliament to the increase in the number of official languages which will take place as from 1 may, when the 10 countries of eastern europe and the mediterranean will join. it is claimed that this is to guarantee each member the same quality of service and to rationalise the operation of the european parliament by making the best use of the human and financial resources at its disposal, but it is a fact that the actual rights are being reduced, even if the rapporteur is trying to compensate in part for this. as we have already pointed out, the confirmation and practical implementation of the principle that all the languages of the eu countries should be official and working languages is all the more important in the current situation, where there is a tendency to see only certain languages becoming predominant in practice and to an increasing extent, namely the languages of the countries with the largest populations - the united kingdom, france, germany, spain and italy - to the detriment of the other languages of the countries that are part of the eu. this situation must be dealt with by constant effort.
in the light of the foregoing, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the proposed solutions are good, since the obligation to be multilingual as laid down in the treaties is confirmed, although it is provided that this obligation can only be 'bended' with the express or tacit consent of the members concerned (in the case of certain meetings of committees or delegations), namely in article 117 (3a): 'at meetings of committees and delegations outside the three usual places of work, interpretation is provided from and into the languages used by members who have confirmed that they will be present at the meeting. this arrangement may, with the agreement of the members of the body concerned, be relaxed in exceptional cases.' we can only accept the introduction of a transitional provision, which is temporary and expires in december 2006: 'in the application of article 117, exceptionally, as regards the official languages of the countries acceding to the european union on 1 may 2004, account shall be taken from that date until 31 december 2006 of whether there is in fact a sufficient number of corresponding interpreters and translators available.' for these reasons i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in order to take account of the difficulties which enlargement may cause in recruiting a sufficient number of interpreters for certain languages, this report proposes an amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament as regards the existing multilingualism system. the obligation of multilingualism is thus confirmed as laid down in the treaties. it provides for the possibility of 'easing' this obligation with the express consent of the members concerned, and introduces a transitional arrangement for the new member states as long as there is a shortage of interpreters. it is a very sensitive area and no transitional arrangements were needed, since interpretation could well solve the problem. any temporary abolition of multilingualism is a future risk. i voted for the green amendments, which clearly limit the transitional provision, and against in the final vote.
in writing. - i share the criticism repeatedly voiced by the portuguese government against the unreasonableness and imbalance which this agreement has created in relation to the agreements with the 'southern countries', particularly as regards the discrepancy between real fishing opportunities and the amount of financial compensation, the fact that equipment is not included in the expenditure included in the basis of calculation of the agreement and the fact that unused quotas cannot be transferred between member states. i therefore welcome the results achieved and the council's commitment that the eu-greenland relationship after 2006 will be based on a broader partnership, including a specific fisheries agreement negotiated in accordance with the general provisions and principles of this type of agreement. as the crucial political issue is the transfer of unused fishing opportunities between member states so that they can be used rationally, and as the report proposes that the commission should be able to do so by means of the necessary measures so that the community fleet can carry out the fixed catches without undermining the principle of relative stability between member states, i have voted in favour of the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) on the basis of an analysis of the data collected on the fisheries agreement between the community and greenland, the protocol on the conditions of the prescribed fisheries needs to be adjusted. such an adjustment is particularly justified by the low level of exploitation of the fishing opportunities allocated to the eu, especially as the financial compensation paid does not reflect this. to this end, the following measures are proposed in particular, which i support: fixing fishing quotas in accordance with the real state of fish stocks, introducing new species for possible catches, strengthening fisheries research and increasing the fishing opportunities of the eu fleet, if the state of fish stocks allows an increase in catches of up to 50% of fishing opportunities. i particularly welcome the rapporteur's proposal to resolve the question of transferring unused quotas between member states, which will not least benefit portugal. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the european council meeting of 25 and 26 march 2004, although i have many reservations about the recommendations on the middle east. i have therefore not followed the general position of my group, particularly with regard to paragraphs 41 and 43 of the motion for a resolution. i have expressed my disagreement on these points by special voting wherever possible.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) two months before the elections to the european parliament, there is perhaps no better proof of the unity between the right (including the portuguese psd - social democratic party) and the social democrats (including the portuguese ps - socialist party) than this booklet of common beliefs: - from the amen to the so-called european constitution - which will further undermine portugal's sovereignty and independence - to the so-called fight against terrorism - which means more security measures used to deprive states of powers and militarize international relations - from the "lisbon strategy" - with yet another confirmation of the stability pact, liberalizations (labour, health, pensions) but now with the "novelty" of introducing binding mechanisms for the member states - with the acceptance of the "status quo" in the middle east - and through this the legitimization of the un and the unjust role of the palestinians in the situation in palestine. as far as the intergovernmental conference is concerned, it seems that spain and poland will (again) be among the 'decision makers'. in practice, the great powers will prevail and the other governments will obey. just look at the recent replacement of a spaniard by another spaniard on the ecb's governing council, or how a frenchman was chosen as the 'european' candidate for the presidency of the imf.
in writing. - (pt) the argument put forward in the report's proposal to reject this regulation is very important because it can be used in other cases such as portugal, which has the largest exclusive economic zone of the community countries. the first argument concerns respect for the specific characteristics of the mediterranean fisheries and fleet, the socioeconomic structure, the species of fish and the size of the fish. the second concerns the need to involve fishermen in the decision-making process and to make use of their experience and efforts. the third is to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with the mediterranean third countries in order to involve them concretely in the efforts to ensure sustainable fisheries. the proposal for a regulation does not meet these conditions, which also, given that the mediterranean is an international sea, constitute good guidelines for the common fisheries policy. finally, there is the link between these conditions and the need for a thorough evaluation of the fish stocks and the measures to be taken to ensure their conservation, where the question of liberalizing access to them and the contradictions inherent in it are very similar to what is happening in portugal.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as in other common policies, other areas and other member states of the union, the commission does not want to take into account the specificities of the different contexts in the common fisheries policy, and in the specific case of mediterranean fisheries. in the specific case of the mediterranean, the important role it plays in countless fields and the strategic importance which this sea has, has been given no importance at all, even though the european parliament has urged respect for the specific characteristics of the mediterranean and the development of flexible measures. the commission proposal for a regulation which is the subject of this report maintains a management strategy which is completely out of touch with the reality of the mediterranean and which does not contain a single measure to counter the catastrophic socioeconomic consequences which it will have. the rapporteur has therefore rightly suggested that this proposal for a regulation be rejected and that the commission be asked to submit a new proposal as soon as possible, taking account of the ideas and suggestions which may have emerged from a serious and thorough consultation of all the parties concerned. i fully agree with the rapporteur's views and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (pt) the the rapporteur believes that this proposal, contrary to what was proposed in the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, does not take due account of the specific features of the mediterranean. the proposal follows the approach which has characterized the measures implemented so far, but which have proved inadequate and which, in the light of the failed management policy, have made it clear that a change of course is needed in line with the guidelines set out in the green paper on the common fisheries policy. the rapporteur stresses the need to involve fishermen in order to ensure compliance with the rules, but points out that their experience and concerns have not been taken into account, pushing them to the limits of the law in a legal framework such as the one proposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. i agree with the rapporteur and have voted against the proposal for a regulation and have supported the referral back to committee.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report reaffirms a key principle which we have always advocated - good governance in the common fisheries policy - which 'implies the effective involvement of all operators in the fisheries sector in the decision-making process as part of the preparation and management of this policy' and 'this involvement should take place as early as possible in the decision-making process'. we have therefore always argued that the common fisheries policy should be decentralised. the commission's proposal to set up regional advisory councils is an important contribution in this direction. we broadly agree with this report, which improves on the commission's original proposals. the report stresses the importance of involving all the players in the sector, in particular fishermen employed and part-time fishermen and fishermen engaged in small-scale fishing within the 12-mile limit. the creation of subcommittees is another interesting proposal, as it will ensure direct participation at all levels. the report also seeks to make the financing of the expenditure of these councils more efficient and more effective. we are, however, reluctant to see these regional (and therefore supranational) councils transformed into councils with actual administrative powers, as this could endanger the national sovereignty of the member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have repeatedly expressed in the european parliament the view that fishermen and shipowners should play a greater role in the reform of the common fisheries policy, particularly when plans are being drawn up to restore species through the prohibition and limitation of fishing effort. it seems to me utopian to want to implement effective measures to conserve stocks without consulting the main players, since they are precisely those most affected by the decisions and policies of fisheries management. this is precisely the purpose of this initiative to set up regional advisory councils. while there is agreement that they should be set up, there are divergent views on their composition and financing. i believe that without a corresponding budget this measure loses all justification and that without a majority representation of the fisheries sector in the regional advisory councils the main players will not be able to secure their rights. only at the end of a transitional period should the composition and functioning of the regional advisory councils be reconsidered. if experience shows that these bodies are effective, they should be given a key role in the management of fisheries resources. finally, i would like to say that i do not agree with the geographical distribution of the regional advisory councils proposed by the commission, which divides the territory of the european union into only five regions. the portuguese waters around portugal proper and around the islands are thus included in the 'south-western area'.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the creation of regional advisory councils under the common fisheries policy aims - for the first time - to increase the involvement of fishermen and their organisations in the decision-making process behind the common fisheries policy. i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, expressing the legitimate expectations of fishermen that the establishment of these councils will not only create an ideal forum for fishermen and scientists to overcome their traditional differences of opinion on the situation of fishery resources. the sustainable management of fisheries resources, the social interests of the sector and the economic survival of coastal communities will depend to a large extent on the involvement of the various representatives of the sector in the formulation of the cfp. these regional advisory councils must therefore be guaranteed a transparent statute and a high degree of independence, perhaps in the form of a 'non-commercial body with its own legal status' registered in a member state, as the rapporteur proposes. it is therefore important that the commission accepts an increase in funding, which the committee and the rapporteur consider ridiculously low, so that the regional advisory councils can really function. these councils are an objective requirement for the european union, both because of the benefits their know-how will bring to the common fisheries policy and to the work of the commission, and because future problems can thus be better prevented.
in writing. - (pt) the unfortunately, these reports have become a ritual in the service of a radical and sectarian political agenda. they no longer serve the serious purpose of protecting and assessing human rights in the eu for the real benefit of citizens. this year's report did not break with this trend. it often went to extremes. it made unfair, superficial and unfounded claims about member states, for example about portugal, which were all wrong. although it had used the charter of fundamental rights as a guide, it quickly came into conflict with it and moved away from it, for example by proclaiming a non-existent 'right to abortion' (and an addition i proposed on the protection of life was rejected in committee) or by maniacally promoting a homosexual agenda against the member states' exclusive competence in the area of family law, as provided for in the charter. it finally lacked the strength to deal with real threats. on the one hand, it completely ignored in the long stream of demagogic points that terrorism is the most important current threat to human rights, and on the other hand it did not unequivocally condemn the french legislation on religious symbols, which is the most disturbing recent sign of discrimination and threat to freedom of religion. i have therefore voted against it and i am glad that it has been rejected in the plenary. i hope that lesson will be remembered in the future.
in writing. - (pt) the with its application for eu membership on 21 february 2003, croatia became the first country in the western balkans to choose the eu as its objective, reinforcing the perception that the european project continues to be a mobilizing factor, even beyond the enlargement that will take place on 1 may. in view of the post-war political situation in the region, i fully agree with the rapporteur that croatia can be the driving force for progress in the western balkans. with its economic success and its democratic progress, croatia's success can serve as a model and an encouragement for the other countries of the western balkans, including their own prospects for future eu membership. this would be the most desirable scenario for ensuring stability and prosperity in this region. however, there are problems which croatia must first solve if it is to hope for a speedy accession to the eu, and these concern the definition of its land and sea borders with slovenia and italy. the eu cannot afford to import problems of this kind. the rapporteur points to the problems and calls for a rapid solution. i voted for this report.
in the case of croatia, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the country to the european union is not delayed. in recent years, croatia has undertaken economic and political reforms to democratize the country and modernise the economy. it has also made great progress in its efforts to align legislation with eu acts in line with the guidelines of the stabilisation and association process. it is true that there is still much to be done - particularly in the repatriation of refugees, croatia's cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and the extension of croatian jurisdiction in the adriatic - and that great perseverance is needed if croatia is to secure the necessary means to consolidate the rule of law and democracy. despite these limitations, i believe that the croatian example can serve as a model for the entire balkan region, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the the report contains elements which i consider reasonable and others which i disagree with, particularly as regards its premises. it is only fair, as the report does, to point out that the turkish authorities do not respect the freedom of trade unions and to criticise the way in which the case against leyla zana and other kurdish members of parliament is being handled. we must demand the release of political prisoners and condemn political persecution and the banning of certain political parties. we must absolutely condemn the torture and ill-treatment and persecution of activists and human rights organizations. we must stand firm on the cultural rights of the kurdish people and on the need to find 'a just, sustainable and functional solution to the cyprus problem, which is in line with the relevant un resolutions'. in this context, and in solidarity with the turkish people, i am opposed to certain elements of the report, such as its acceptance of 'the primacy of european law over national law', the adoption of the so-called european constitution, the use of turkey as a nato member to increase the eu's influence in the region 'significantly', and the use of an 'either/or' in the negotiations, where the eu makes no concessions whatsoever in the implementation of its neoliberal policy, where one need only look at the opinion of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy.
in writing. - (pt) the this report evaluates turkey's progress towards possible accession to the eu. the rapporteur has chosen a realistic interpretation of the growing doubts in some member states about turkey's accession to the eu in order to put forward a realistic policy which he believes the eu should pursue towards turkey. we must not therefore promote the view that turkey, with the measures it has already taken, is now almost ready to be included, but should instead cooperate with the current turkish government so that it fully meets the political copenhagen criteria. the fact is that the council has recognized turkey as a candidate country for accession rather hastily and that 'the characteristics of turkey as a democratic and constitutional state' as the rapporteur put it 'have not played a major role in this recognition'. i agree with the views expressed by my colleague, mr queiroz, in the plenary session, that the council and the commission should make a clear and unequivocal assessment of the consequences of turkey's accession. it is not enough to know whether turkey is prepared to become part of the eu. it is reasonable to ask whether the eu is also prepared for this. i voted yes.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the fact that the european development fund (edf) has developed outside the community budget means that development cooperation has long been regarded as the "private domain" of the member states. the inclusion of the edf in the budget will first of all mean that parliamentary scrutiny will become possible, but will also promote more simplified and rational procedures and will correct the outstanding commitments which are widely considered to be a contributory cause of the general lack of transparency. it will also mean that emergency aid can be used more effectively in disaster situations. on the other hand, it must be avoided at all costs that this budgetary entry implies a mechanical reduction in aid to the acp countries, which could be waived in favour of strategic investment interests or as a result of the accession of the new member states. the psychological factor inherent in the visibility of national contributions must also be avoided by avoiding the complete disappearance of the psychological factor inherent in the visibility of national contributions by centralising aid. i have always felt that europe has a historical and human responsibility to contribute to the welfare of those peoples and nations with whom we share a deep sense of brotherhood and who, for various reasons, need our attention and practical assistance. the results achieved by european solidarity over many years, particularly in relation to the acp countries, should encourage us to continue along this path. that is what these peoples need and what the citizens of europe want.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the euro was created as a scriptural currency in the previous legislature, and in the current legislature it has become the currency of 12 of the countries of the european union. but the creation of the single currency does not imply the existence of a single payments area where the same rules apply. this is one of the major tasks to be carried out in the european union during the next legislature. the commission waited until the banking system became self-regulating following the creation of the single currency. but with the euro in place since 1999, what has happened is that there are two markets for payments: the domestic and the international. there was no internal market with domestic market rules governing payments in the new currency, which, while unique, functioned as a foreign currency with international transfer fees and charges. this situation was partially resolved by regulation no 2560 of december 2001 on electronic payments and transfers. from then on, it has once again been shown that self-regulation has not worked. the directive is also useless, because it needs to be transposed into the law of each country, which is not done at the same time or in the same way. this is a matter which requires secure rules, applied simultaneously and in the same way throughout the internal market, which is why i believe that only regulations can give citizens and businesses the security that a payment system requires.
in the tragedy caused by the sinking of the prestige, there is no doubt that the spanish authorities bear a great deal of responsibility. the report itself, although very insufficient in several areas, strongly criticises the spanish authorities, in particular for the statements of spanish officials and the lack of dissemination of the findings of the investigations. it is also positive that it stresses the need for greater attention to the maintenance and condition of ships, even those with double hulls, which may pose a greater potential danger; the defence of agreements with the imo to carry out rapid and independent investigations into maritime accidents; the request to the coastal member states to create a clear and independent command and decision-making structure in the context of emergency situations; the request for a study on the imposition of compulsory insurance; the request for financial compensation for shelters; the demand for a system of sanctions to counter illegal waste; an audit of classification societies; the transposition by the member states of community directives and the ratification of international conventions; the training of seafarers; the dignification of the maritime professions. however, unfortunately the report does not speak of improving the social conditions of workers and our proposals to ban flags of convenience, to hold all parties responsible for paying for damages and to support the investigation into the validity of the award of nautical certificates have been rejected. we hope that these proposals, which we have taken up again, will still be voted on in the plenary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other mr president, the main purpose of this directive is to create a system of cross-financing to facilitate the construction of alternative infrastructure in particularly sensitive areas. at the same time, it contributes to improving the conditions for the mobility of people and goods within the community, encourages the competitiveness of the transport sector and regulates the internalization of all external costs of prices paid by users. i agree with these objectives in principle, although i would have liked a more ambitious text in terms of harmonization. it is, however, essential to me, and i stress this in my opinion, that the new charges and tolls should not correspond to an increase in the overall tax burden. to do this, member states will have to revise downwards the annual circulation and registration fees. finally, i believe that the initial proposal did not include any measures to address the specific situation of peripheral countries, whose carriers will be more affected in their competitiveness in the short and medium term than their counterparts in the central european member states. the adoption of a new recital dealing specifically with this matter should provide an incentive for the commission and the council to take account of this reality.
the rapporteur. mr president, for all of us, the safety of our citizens is a priority. we are aware of the importance and the need to strengthen external border controls, also as a consequence of free movement and the abolition of internal border controls. we live in times that have brought to the top of our political agenda, and to the center of citizens' concerns, the growing threats of transnational organized crime, illegal immigration and, in particular, terrorism. this is a threat to our democracies which must be countered by strengthening european democracy itself and its instruments. all this, mr president, calls for a rapid and efficient exchange of information in the field of border controls and also police cooperation. the development of the second generation of sis, sis ii (schengen information system), and the creation of a visa information system, including the introduction of biometric data, are therefore of fundamental importance. but we must do so within the framework of clear rules which ensure the efficiency of the system, its economy and scrupulous respect for community standards on the protection of personal data. this proposal and a second proposal announced by the commission to define the system and how it works are complementary aspects which must be dealt with together. if there is a need to secure funding for something, the legislative authority, as well as the budgetary authority, must know exactly what it is. that said, and on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, i ask the house to reject the commission's initiative, which is little more than an empty box. i hope that the commission will submit a fully reasoned proposal at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, unlike the one we are currently being presented with. mr president, since we are at the end of the parliamentary term, i would also ask that my motion for a resolution be put to the vote. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we have not two months because we are at the end of the legislature, and i ask the house to vote on my report by making a resolution of this house rejecting the commission's initiative.
- the commission proposes a revision of the european investment bank's external lending mandate, which is covered by the community budgetary guarantee, to take account of a new neighbourhood policy in the context of eu enlargement and in the context of its proposal for the political and financial framework for 2007-13. if we take the total loan ceiling at eur 20 260 million as a starting point, it is easy to conclude that the report accompanying this legislative proposal adds little to the geopolitical considerations and objectives behind it, in particular the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area in which the eu can have greater regional influence at political, economic and military level. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the budget for the period from 2000 to 2006 by eur 500 million. these loans are of course intended to promote the eu's regional influence, interests and involvement, which we oppose. it is even more worrying, however, that this neighbourhood policy is being pursued to the detriment of the eu's cooperation and development policy, particularly with the acp countries, latin america and asia.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the proposal concerns a review for the remainder of the current mandate of the community budget guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) for loans granted by it from its own resources to third countries. the eu's enlargement on 1 may 2004 will allow the eib to increase its lending without raising the ceiling on its external lending mandate, which is particularly welcome at a time when the eu is intensifying its cooperation with the potential candidate countries in the western balkans and preparing a gradual deepening of its relations with other southern and eastern neighbours. according to the eib's business plan, a projection of the utilization rate of the various regional loan packages for the remainder of the current mandate indicates a total guaranteed lending exceeding the total loan amount fixed. in the light of this forecast, the commission has proposed a new geographical distribution of the current mandate, but within the current ceiling of eur 19.460 million. given the importance of the eu strengthening its relations with its closest neighbours, i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report follows on from the numerous amendments which parliament adopted at first reading and almost all of which have subsequently been accepted by the council. the common position shows that the solution proposed by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism is indeed the most appropriate one to achieve the primary objective of interoperability between the various electronic toll systems in some member states. microwave pump systems are the most economically viable, they allow the use of technology already successfully used in the telephony sector, they fully meet the objectives of the directive and they actually make life easier for users of certain motorways. however, it should be stressed that the committee does not exclude a study at a later date, towards 2008, of the applicability of the satellite system, but everything will depend on the technological development on the market and specific needs in connection with other forms of road traffic monitoring. as this report does not change the text of the common position, which ensures compatibility between the different systems of the member states, i am voting in favour.
the amendments proposed to regulation (eec) no 2913/92 establishing a community customs code are designed to establish a harmonised legal framework for uniform customs controls in all member states and commonly agreed standards and risk criteria for the selection of goods and operators in order to combat terrorism, organised crime and the trade in dangerous products. in order to improve the security of the movement of goods across the external borders of the community, traders must provide customs authorities with information on the goods before importing into or exporting from the union. this information must be available in electronic form and must be exchanged between the authorities of the different member states. we would like to stress once again that the fight against terrorism must not be carried out at the expense of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, including the right to privacy, which includes the protection of personal data, as stated in article 8 of the european convention on human rights. the protection of personal data should not be seen as an obstacle to the effective fight against terrorism, which is why we have some reservations about the proposed amendments to the regulation, even though the european parliament's amendments explicitly refer to these rights.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to amend the community customs code by introducing basic principles for risk management at the external borders and a harmonised risk assessment system. the commission proposes a number of measures to improve the security of goods moving across international borders, including the following: introduction of a requirement for traders to provide customs authorities with information on goods before importing into or exporting from the eu. a more flexible system for the authorization of operators is introduced. a mechanism for the introduction of risk criteria applicable throughout the community is established. a computerised support system shall be established to support risk management. the proposal expresses a positive desire for an integrated and efficient management of the external borders by improving the efficiency of customs procedures and customs controls, partly by simplifying customs legislation and partly by making better use of information technology in customs procedures. i would like to emphasize that the parties concerned support changes which strike the right balance between the increased controls and formalities that security measures entail and the desire to make legal trade more flexible. i share that view and have voted in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air traffic control system is properly functioning. as in the case of other international organisations, the community and the member states participate in eurocontrol's work, in accordance with the protocol of accession, with voting rights allocated in accordance with their respective competences. the institutional synergy between the community and eurocontrol will certainly bring advantages in terms of capacity, safety and more efficient air traffic thanks to development programmes and the use of new air traffic control technology. as it is a question of establishing rules on international cooperation, the central aim of which is to achieve the objectives mentioned above, but taking into account the powers of the member states in this field, i have voted in favour of this report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) since the treaty establishes a common transport policy, the commission has put forward a number of proposals for accession to international conventions in order to be able to exercise the powers conferred on it by the member states. this proposal is a follow-up to the initiative on the single european sky, in which the community is given an active role in the context of eurocontrol's technical powers. the protocol of accession contains the legal provisions enabling the community to become a full member of eurocontrol, with the community participating in its work together with the member states, but with a shared voting right. the voting rights are exercised by the community or by the member states, depending on whether the area in question falls within the competence of the community or within that of the member states. however, the fact is that the treaties do not confer on the community powers in the field of defence and national security, and therefore the use of airspace for military purposes does not fall within the community's competence, as we have pointed out in the debate on the single european sky. as always, we are trying to go along a path and at a pace that we are not prepared to follow.
in writing. - (pt) the proposal is for the european community to join the european organisation for the safety of air navigation (eurocontrol). articles 86 and 97 of the rules of procedure provide that parliament must give its assent to this agreement. the negotiations on the agreement were concluded on 8 october 2002 with the signing of the protocol thereto. as in the case of other international organisations, the community and the member states participate in eurocontrol's work, in accordance with the protocol of accession, with voting rights allocated in accordance with their respective competences. the council and parliament have recently adopted the regulation on a single european airspace, which among its provisions also provides for the community to join eurocontrol, and parliament has already expressed itself indirectly on this matter. cooperation between the community and eurocontrol could bring benefits in terms of capacity, safety and efficient air traffic thanks to development programmes and the use of new air traffic control technology, which is why i voted in favour.
the commission's proposal is aimed at regulating the small-scale border traffic. the main objective is to eliminate barriers to trade, social and cultural exchanges and regional cooperation, to promote the development of border regions and to facilitate the crossing of the frontier by bona fide border residents by harmonizing the rules applicable to them. although i would like to thank the commission for this initiative, i do not agree with some of the points on which the rapporteur also expresses reservations in several places in his report. it is the situation of what can be called 'bona fide' and the lack of means of effective control that could lead to abuses of all kinds. in view of the need to combat illegal immigration, criminal activities and the risk of terrorist access, it is incomprehensible that the commission has not taken any measures to ensure that the duration of the authorized stay is respected. we agree with the basic idea of facilitating access to the eu for certain third country nationals, but we attach particular importance to the need for more precise conditions for this. the rapporteur's warnings are very relevant and, as the proposed amendments are precisely in that direction, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the the present proposal is part of a group of legislative initiatives to update and harmonise the rules on small cross-border traffic. in particular, it is intended to facilitate access to the eu for certain third-country nationals residing in border areas. the proposal aims in particular to remove barriers to crossborder workers by introducing a special visa for them. it is emphasized that this type of visa is of limited duration and that only citizens living within 50 km of the border should be able to benefit from these provisions. the amendments and comments made by the rapporteur are relevant, understandable and justified and do not go against the essence of the commission's proposal. i vote for it. however, it is appropriate to draw the attention of the commission to the abuses that could occur if the necessary measures are not taken, in particular to prevent abuses and vulnerabilities that could encourage illegal immigration and criminal activities and increase the risk of terrorist access.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken the initiative to establish a special programme for the protection of the rights of refugees and displaced persons. the proposal emphasises that 'the network, as a further development of the early warning system, should primarily facilitate the exchange of strategic and tactical information on human smuggling and illegal immigration and their trends', while 'exchange of personal data in the context of illegal migration flows and human smuggling' is not yet covered. the rapporteur himself states that 'the fight against illegal immigration should not only target persons who have entered the union illegally, but also and primarily the 'lock-in' networks which supply labour to networks of illegal employment in europe'. the aim is to improve an instrument to make more effective the coordination and communication needed to combat illegal immigration with a successful outcome. it is another element in a policy which ignores the economic and social causes of immigration.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in view of the opening of the schengen borders, the constant violations of the community's borders and the security requirements imposed by the current geopolitical situation in the world, i consider it essential to strengthen cooperation in the management and monitoring of migration flows and in the monitoring and combating of illegal immigration. the commission's technical platform circa (communication and information resource centre administrator) provides a virtual workspace for limited user groups and for the rapid exchange of information, if it can ensure a high level of security. i would like to stress the possibility of involving europol in this network. i hope that those who use and exploit this more effective network approach to the migration phenomenon will remember that their subject matter is people who, regardless of their legal status, have inalienable rights and deserve respect. i voted yes.
the commission's proposal, which the rapporteur supports unreservedly, is a much-needed revision of directive 77/388/eec, which has long been desired. as is well known, services are generally taxed at the place where the supplier is established. the commission now wants to reverse this, so that taxation takes place at the place where the customer is established. i believe that this change will better reflect the current situation in the services sector and will give greater certainty to all parties concerned. the proposed measures will also remove some of the current problems resulting from the profound changes which have taken place since 1977. the report does not raise any particular problems and its main aim is to comply with the general principle that the place of taxation should be the place where the service is provided. it should also be noted that the committee on economic and monetary affairs adopted the draft legislative resolution unanimously. i voted yes.
in writing. - (pt) the i have shared the overwhelmingly positive attitude of those who voted for this framework agreement, where the discussion has turned primarily to the legal basis, on the basis of an opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market which very appropriately pointed out that the choice of the legal basis in question should not be decided by the legislator but should instead be based on objective criteria which can be checked by the courts. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the rapporteur of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy consider that the absence of reference to article 300 (3) of the ec treaty, which provides for the consultation of parliament, could only be due to an oversight which should be corrected. the rapporteur tabled an amendment to this effect, which was immediately replaced by a corresponding correction. the rapporteur's willingness to do so has only strengthened my desire to vote in favour.
in writing. - (pt) we all attach the utmost importance to the safety of citizens. we are aware of the importance and the need to strengthen controls at the external borders, also as a result of the free movement and the abolition of controls at the internal borders. we live in a time when the growing threats of organised crossborder crime, illegal immigration and, not least, terrorism have come to the top of our political agenda and are a matter of considerable concern to citizens. it is a threat to our democracies and must be countered by strengthening european democracies and their instruments. all this adds up to the need for rapid and efficient exchange of information in the context of border control and police cooperation. it is therefore essential to develop the second generation of the sis (schengen information system), sis ii, and to introduce a visa information system, to which is added the important issue of introducing biometric data. however, we must do so within clear rules which ensure the efficiency of the system, its economy and strict compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data adopted by the community. the present proposal, which establishes the vis and allows its financing outside the community budget, and ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the introduction of the visa information system (vis) is part of the schengen information system (sis) and eurodac as part of the process of making the so-called third pillar, namely justice and home affairs, a community matter, by which the member states are to be deprived of key competences. it should be noted that from 1 may such a decision will no longer require unanimity in the council. the vis shall act as a system for the exchange of data between member states in respect of visas. although we do not share the rapporteur's position, we agree with the proposal to reject the commission's initiative, not least because - as it is pointed out - the proposal does not contain a definition of the system and its application, 'including the categories of data to be included in the system, the purpose of their inclusion and the criteria for their selection, rules on the content of vis records, the right of access of the authorities to enter, update and consult data and rules on the protection of personal data and the control thereof'. we have therefore voted against.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are clearly against this, even though it is already happening to several airlines, and we therefore support the negative position expressed by the european parliament's committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. the intention is to transfer personal data to the us, which is said to cover 34 areas - including telephone numbers, credit card information, political views, family affiliation, religious beliefs and health status - without any safeguards or effective controls, putting citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. it is an unacceptable objective, which violates the eu directive on the protection of personal data and is designed to limit the possibilities of each country - whose responsibility it is to ensure the protection of citizens with regard to information on them in the passenger manifests of airlines - to safeguard the rights of its citizens by opposing the transfer of personal data.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) issues of police cooperation and protection of citizens have been a central part of our efforts. police cooperation is essential to ensure a high level of security for citizens within the area of freedom, security and justice. following the tampere conclusions, the portuguese presidency presented an initiative, adopted in december 2000, which launched the first phase of the european police college (cepol) by creating a network of existing national schools in the member states. the aim is to contribute to the training of senior staff in the member states' law enforcement authorities by developing a european strategy addressing the main problems in the member states in the field of combating and preventing crime, maintaining law and order and public security, in particular across borders. the report on the functioning and future prospects of cepol notes that there have been some problems, where the lack of legal personality is one of the main causes. despite these problems, the perception is that cepol has done an excellent job. i support these two initiatives, which are putting into law the position adopted by the majority of member states, including portugal. at this stage it is best to maintain the structure of a network of national schools, but with the status of a legal person, with a board responsible for the organisation and functioning of the academy, and with its own secretariat and headquarters.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the irish initiative aims to give the european police college (cepol) legal personality and thus the legal capacity of legal persons. the united kingdom initiative aims to provide cepol with a seat in bramshill as a result of the political agreement in the european council and to establish a permanent secretariat to assist cepol. an evaluation of the appropriateness of providing cepol with a permanent structure has been carried out in a three-year report on the functioning and future prospects of cepol, which notes that there have been some problems with regard to governance, as well as financial and organisational aspects due to the lack of legal personality. the rapporteur has tabled three amendments to give the proposals the necessary coherence, particularly with regard to the expenditure borne by the budget of cepol and the location of cepol's headquarters. i believe that cepol has done an excellent job which can be continued without the need at this stage to set up a genuine european policy academy different from the national schools, which is why i support the proposals put forward by ireland and the united kingdom and the amendments adopted and ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - (pt) the we have voted against this recommendation for the following reasons: firstly, there is no rotation between member states in the number of seats on the executive board of the european central bank (ecb). it is clearly not enough for the ecb to be the first community body to break the representativeness rule by not having representatives from all the member states, since the change in the ecb's statute ensures that the members of the executive board have a permanent voting right, unlike the members of the governing council of the central banks, who exercise their voting rights on a rotating basis. here too, the large directorates are consolidated and countries such as portugal are excluded from eu monetary policy decision-making. secondly, the candidate is uncritical of monetary and budgetary orthodoxy and the eu's economic and monetary policy guidelines, and seems indifferent to the economic crisis in which the community is engaged. the candidate will work towards the ecb achieving its main objective, price stability, and believes that the crisis is due to a lack of structural reforms. he also said that "there is no need at present to change the rules as they are set out in the maastricht treaty and the stability and growth pact", as "the current problems are not due to the unnecessarily rigid framework" but to the fact that some countries do not comply with the rules agreed by the community.
in writing. - (pt) i thank mr doorn for his excellent work and the entire committee on legal affairs and the internal market for adopting the report unanimously. impact assessments, which were already mentioned in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making of june 2003, are clearly a crucial tool not only for achieving the objective of better law-making but also for reducing the costs and administrative burdens of compliance with that law. in this context, the international monetary fund (imf) has estimated that improving regulation could lead to economic growth of 7% and an improvement in production of 3%. the control of the implementation of the cost assessment and impact assessment is very important. if officials are assisted and checked by an impartial auditor, as the institutions are, and if analyses are also carried out of the burdens that companies and individuals have to bear in order to comply with the legislation, i am sure that a decisive step can be taken in the qualitative development of the european union. i therefore support the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the fight against discrimination against disabled people has been stepped up at european and national level. the adoption of the european action plan for the disabled has been an important step forward in this field. however, equal treatment and opportunities for disabled people are not yet guaranteed in all areas of life. the results achieved shall be consolidated through appropriate policy and legislative initiatives. the european action plan should therefore include a directive on the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability, which should apply to all areas of eu competence. in addition, member states should implement all relevant legislation in this area and promote the exchange of good practice. i also share the view expressed in the report on improving access to information technology and public buildings and to quality services that promote the independence of the disabled. i have therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of improving the situation of the 50 million citizens of the enlarged union who are affected.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report is quite good, but it is lacking in several points. the report regrets that, despite repeated calls from the european parliament, the action plan does not include any real legislative proposals, in particular a directive on the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability, which should apply to all areas of eu competence in order to remove all the barriers that prevent disabled people from participating in the life of the community. the report also criticises the fact that the action plan proposal does not take account of the need to support disabled organisations in particular in the accession countries. the report also mentions the future treaty and states that it must contain provisions for more far-reaching measures to combat discrimination and promote respect for human rights and the opportunities of the disabled, especially those who are highly dependent and/or unable to speak for themselves. it supports a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and calls for the urgent implementation of the eu expert report on 'access for all', including the amendment of the construction products directive to introduce mandatory accessibility standards. with regard to women with disabilities in particular, the commission is invited to focus, within the framework of the daphne programme, on combating violence against women with disabilities and to implement measures to combat ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the right of residence for disabled people in the member states. i also warmly support the call by mr mario mantovani to include a timetable for the submission of a directive on combating discrimination on the grounds of disability in the areas not covered by directive 2000/78/ec.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report is a fitting reminder that in an enlarged union there are some 50 million people with various disabilities. the eu's disability strategy should therefore focus on non-discrimination and the protection of human rights. the european year of disabled people 2003 succeeded in raising awareness of disability issues. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to draw up a european action plan in this area. however, we regret that there are no concrete legislative proposals or a timetable for the submission of a directive on combating discrimination on the grounds of disability. we must also fight for the increasing involvement of disabled people's organisations in the decision-making process on these issues in the eu, the un and at national level. i would also like to point out that the commission has committed itself to presenting a working document on the implementation of the european employment strategy with regard to the disabled and better access for the disabled to information technology and to public buildings, including access to services. we fully share these views and find the report excellent.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it should be noted at the outset that this report is a follow-up to the european year of disabled people 2003 and related issues. it calls for the eu's disability strategy to focus on non-discrimination and the protection of human rights. the report points out that the initiatives launched have produced several positive results and should therefore be integrated into eu policy. it is regrettable that there are no legislative initiatives and the report calls for a timetable for the submission of a directive in this area. the report calls for more far-reaching measures to combat discrimination and promote respect for human rights and the opportunities of the disabled. support is expressed for a un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and member states are encouraged to promote such a convention. the report stresses the need for the involvement of disabled people's organisations in decision-making. it is proposed that the european social fund and the structural funds should be specifically used for people with disabilities. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european network of information centres for disabled people, and called on the commission to present a proposal for a specific action programme to be implemented in conjunction with the 2005 budget. for all these reasons i shall vote for mr mantovani's report, which contains some very excellent ideas and proposals.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) over the years, regulation (eec) no 1408/71 has undergone several changes which have made it quite complex. in the light of enlargement and the need to coordinate the social security systems of the member states in order to protect citizens moving within the community, there is a strong need to modernise and simplify the regulation. i have therefore voted in favour of this second reading position on the council's common position. this regulation is a crucial step forward for all those covered by a social security scheme. the regulation covers all persons residing in a member state in the same way as its own citizens, thus making a significant contribution to social integration. all citizens are covered when they move within the other member states and double taxation is taken into account. a major step forward has been made in the emphasis on the principle of good administration, so that cooperation and mutual assistance between the institutions of the member states are promoted, as is the handling of citizens' requests for information.
in writing. - (pt) the coordination of social security systems is essential in the implementation of the freedom of movement provided for in the treaties. the current regulation in this area is over 30 years old and has undergone numerous changes due to updates of national systems and the decisions of the court of justice, which is why it is today an extremely complicated text. in addition, there are issues which are spread over different directives. this new version, which does not deteriorate from the present situation, has the advantage of being simpler and more up-to-date and of covering all the citizens of the union, as defined in the treaties. the number of derogations and exceptions has also been reduced. it is regrettable, however, that the council has not gone further on two points. the first concerns the question of prior authorization to receive appropriate treatment outside the member state of residence, where there is no guarantee that such authorization will be granted if medical circumstances require it, as the european parliament proposed. the second point concerns unemployment benefits, where the european parliament and the commission have advocated that unemployed people should be able to seek work in another country for a period of six months with prior authorization. however, the council has chosen to maintain the current provision of three months with a six-month option ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - (pt) the i welcome the fact that the common position has been adopted in an area where community provisions have so far meant that millions of european citizens enjoy social protection when they move within the union. the common position simplifies and updates the legal framework (regulation no 1408/71) and at the same time extends its scope both materially and individually. the principle of equal treatment has been strengthened, as has the principle of the transfer of benefits. the regulation applies to all nationals of a member state who are covered by its social security legislation. it protects employees, civil servants, students and pensioners, as well as persons who are not in active employment. it also improves the conditions for the unemployed, including unemployed frontier workers, to seek work in another member state. the problems at first reading concerned the adoption of two amendments on tax harmonization and an unacceptable definition of the concept of family. the council has also rejected these two amendments, which is why i support the final common position.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) safety - and in this particular case road safety - has always been a major concern for the european union, and many directives have been adopted to this end. the present proposal aims to increase the minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the transeuropean road network. i can therefore only support this report. the common position agreed upon, which the rapporteur asks us to support, has cut back considerably on the technical aspects and does not seek to impose specific and detailed obligations on the member states. the main objective has been maintained and the safety of the tunnels of the transeuropean road network has been improved. i also support the proposed administrative structure with a safety coordinator and a tunnel authority, as i believe that this is the best way to achieve the objective. the fact that the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has adopted the report unanimously and that the positions of the two institutions are completely in line is an important factor which leads me to vote in favour of the report.
- doc. b3-0330/96 by mr de gucht and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; the special attention to air quality monitoring is certainly to be welcomed, but i agree with the rapporteur in his criticism that this proposal does not contain any limit values (unlike the other directives in this field). in view of the fact that arsenic, cadmium, nickel and some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons can be carcinogenic to humans and therefore pose hidden dangers to human health, i believe that despite the criticism mentioned, i should vote in favour of this proposal. that is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) article 129a of the treaty states that 'the community shall contribute to the attainment of a high level of consumer protection' in particular by 'specific actions which support and supplement the policies pursued by the member states to protect the health, safety and economic interests of consumers and to ensure adequate consumer information', while stating that these measures 'shall not prevent any member state from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures'. this regulation is part of the follow-up to the commission green paper on consumer protection in the european union and is intended to implement the provisions of article 129a of the treaty with a view to improving cooperation between the authorities of the member states responsible for monitoring, reporting and prosecuting crossborder infringements. a network of public authorities is thus being set up for this purpose in the light of the increase in cross-border trade, particularly electronic trade, and the need to improve consumer protection. the rapporteur also wants to ensure that consumer organisations are involved in this cooperation, which we consider to be very important. that is why we voted in favour. we believe, however, that every effort should be made to avoid the emergence of serious repercussions on national legal systems or the different intensities of the prosecution of national and crossborder offences.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the consumer really deserves better and more effective protection, especially in these times. the commission's proposal is precisely aimed at strengthening consumer protection. i therefore agree that there is a need for a form of cooperation which enables effective monitoring, which can disseminate and prosecute cross-border offences. this proposal for a regulation contains some very good elements, not least in terms of better cooperation between the member states through units specifically designed for this purpose and in terms of the creation of an electronic database containing all kinds of information relevant to this field. i support the commission's proposal and i also support the amendments tabled by the report which are intended to supplement the commission's proposal in order to avoid certain problems due to the simultaneous existence of different implementing arrangements. it is in this context that the report opens up the possibility of involving private consumer organizations in crossborder cooperation between the authorities concerned. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the various forms of consumer credit amounted to more than eur 510 billion in the euro area in 2003 (13% of household consumption), which shows not only the financial interest of banks and other operators in this market, but also an excessive level of indebtedness that should not be underestimated. in portugal, household debt is over 100% of disposable income, if we include loans in real estate. it is therefore not just about access to credit and consumer protection, but about economic sustainability, where there is a huge risk that families may be affected by the dictates of monetary policy and the stimulation of artificial consumption. the consumer credit market is predominantly a local or regional market and it is therefore difficult to see the interest in promoting cross-border credit, with untenable arguments that it can contribute to increasing internal consumption in europe or become an 'essential element in the long-awaited economic recovery'. i am aware that some operators have spoken out against this directive because of some of the obligations it imposes on them, and i have reservations about the very far-reaching harmonization which the commission's proposal proposes. measures must be taken to increase cooperation and strengthen consumer protection, and the necessary flexibility must be provided to enable member states to adopt measures which are more ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - (pt) the this report concerns the revision of directive 87/102/eec on community provisions relating to consumer credit. the question is whether harmonized rules in this area will better protect consumers. on the one hand, the need to ensure greater security for intra-eu trade, for creditors, traders and consumers, makes such harmonization advisable, but on the other hand, complete harmonization could weaken the provisions in force in certain member states. it is therefore important that member states retain the right to ensure better protection for their consumers, including those states which believe that total harmonisation could be beneficial in certain areas. without going into detail, and although the report is the result of compromise negotiations in committee, it seems balanced, as it reflects our wish to impose responsibility on both creditors and consumers in a situation where marketing and consumer stimulation are enormously aggressive.
the commission's proposal to update the provisions of directive 87/102/eec is designed to strengthen consumer protection. this initiative therefore deserves support. there are some minor positive points, however. the report seeks to improve these points. some of the measures proposed by the commission may mean more expensive credit and therefore fewer loans. the provisions aimed at strengthening transparency and comparability deserve special support. it is also important to introduce the principle of responsible credit, which should pay particular attention to the obligations of both creditors and consumers. it is important that certain essential minimum standards for consumer credit be adopted at community level. better consumer protection is a matter for the member states at national level. otherwise, both the principle of subsidiarity and the nature of a directive are violated. in view of the rapporteur's amendments, i shall vote in favour. i would like to commend the commission for its warning against excessive indebtedness. i do not agree with the report on this point. one of the main causes of excessive consumer indebtedness is their easy access to credit, in particular for unnecessary goods or other goods that are clearly beyond their real needs or spending capabilities. on this point i agree... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of consumer information, and has recently published a report on the use of the information society in the european union. it is thus another directive in the consumer protection package, reflecting broader objectives of ensuring consumer confidence in the internal market and promoting international and european trade. the aim is therefore to harmonise the internal market once again by implementing legislation on unfair trading practices. however, the proposal for a directive, as amended by the european parliament, aims to improve the rights of consumers who have been victims of unfair commercial practices, provides for a clause on a general prohibition of unfair commercial practices and clarifies the definition of this concept, extends the scope of the provisions and strengthens the protection of vulnerable consumers such as children and the elderly, and strengthens the participation of consumer organisations in the formulation of codes of conduct, which is positive. however, the directive does not live up to expectations.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as a follow-up to the green paper on consumer protection, this directive aims to protect consumers from unfair commercial practices by undertakings in the internal market, in particular by means of uniform criteria throughout the union as to what is to be understood by unfair commercial practices. the commission's proposal seeks to strike a balance between a high level of consumer protection and the proper functioning of the internal market. i support the rapporteur's amendments to the commission's original proposal which clearly improve it. among these changes, the rapporteur's attention is particularly drawn to commercial practices which are directed at certain groups of consumers, i.e. consumers who are particularly vulnerable because of special circumstances such as age, disability, temporary physical or mental conditions or the degree of illiteracy. as regards misleading advertising, i also support the rapporteur's proposal that the proposal for a directive should cover publications whose content is controlled by the marketer rather than the publisher. i applaud the rapporteur's work and have voted in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of pesticides. they must therefore be reduced as much as possible, which is inseparable from the question of the agricultural practice - the agricultural model - used and the environmental risks associated with the use of pesticides, especially for soil and groundwater. the present proposal aims to consolidate and harmonise existing legislation in the field of pesticides and to harmonise standards in the various member states. the regulation sets maximum levels for pesticides in all products, empowers the commission to set import tolerances and gives the european food safety authority responsibility for risk assessment. despite the federalist mentality and the reservations it gives rise to, the views in principle seem to be correct, provided that the member states are still able to implement stricter measures on their own territory and that account is taken of national and regional specificities, in particular different climatic conditions and best available agricultural practices. in addition, we must be aware of the limit values, which should not be aimed at facilitating trade or compliance with wto rules, but should be determined by the health of consumers. it is therefore essential that imported products are subject to the same provisions.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to harmonise all the maximum levels at community level, to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to create the least possible barriers to trade. the proposal aims to simplify existing legislation and define the roles of the various parties, in particular the european food safety authority and the commission, in setting maximum levels. the european food safety authority, on the basis of its network of experts and institutions in the member states, will be responsible for the risk assessment and will be required to draw up an opinion on each mrl. the commission will be responsible for risk management and will decide on the setting of maximum levels on the basis of the opinions of the european food safety authority. member states' authorities shall ensure that the european food safety authority receives information on current food regulations, authorisations and agricultural practices. maximum residue limits (mrls) for existing or new substances not yet harmonised but previously established at national level are to be collected by the european food safety authority and set as provisional mrls once their safety has been established on the basis of available data. as it is important to ensure a high level of food safety and as i welcome the better distribution of roles and responsibilities, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - (pt) the i am glad that the council has agreed with the basic ideas expressed by the european parliament at the first reading and that it accepts the objections raised at that time, particularly as regards respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the basic idea is thus fully taken into account, namely that the security of gas supply must be ensured first by the undertakings concerned, while the member states and finally the community must intervene only in the second and third place. i am of course in favour of the establishment of a gas coordination group, consisting of representatives of the member states and representative bodies, as is the case in the oil sector. this measure is the very expression of the desired 'exchange of best practice', where best practice is implemented and the principle of subsidiarity is respected. the choice of article 95 of the ec treaty as the legal basis for the original proposal for a directive was justified by the fact that the commission had proposed a number of harmonisation measures. however, it is precisely these measures that parliament - and then the council - removed from the original proposal because they were considered to be materially inadequate. in accordance with the result reached by the council and the european parliament, and since i too agree that the legal basis should now be changed to article 100 of the ec treaty, i have voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the reaction of the large private monopolies or the large countries when their interests are threatened is quite enlightening, also when it comes to the strategic energy sector. as the rapporteur says: 'a market can be 100% open like the german market, but still be virtually impenetrable to foreign companies because the national companies have a de facto monopoly (...) on the infrastructure. in france too, there was reluctance to legalise the separation of the electricity and gas markets. " the great powers and their economic groups want the energy market to be liberalized, provided they maintain control in their own countries and can come to control those of others. look at france, which only liberalises its market when the conditions are right for it to remain under the control of french big capital. in this context, parliament wants to introduce 'equal' rules for all, when the necessary and correct response is to deprive big capital and its profit-making logic of the strategic control of a country's energy sector and instead focus on a public energy sector and a public energy policy that ensures universal and equal access and a sustainable and balanced development of the country.
in writing. - (pt) the gas and electricity markets have been largely liberalised, but remain predominantly national. it is important that a broad consensus be reached at european level on the formulation of technical rules relevant to the completion of the internal gas market. this is the aim of the european gas regulatory forum, which meets every two years in madrid and brings together representatives of the commission, national legislatures, member states, network operators, users and consumers. as has been pointed out here, it is important to ensure open and fair national markets and gradual reductions in gas prices (where there are huge differences between member states) and to solve the problems which have been encountered with the capacity of interconnectors and the lack of appropriate provisions for costs attributable to cross-border energy trade. this forum, which is legally recognised in the proposed regulation and is given a formal advisory role in the preparation and discussion of the guidelines, reached broad agreement on the formulation of technical rules relevant to the completion of the internal gas market at its 7th meeting in madrid in september 2003, where it agreed on the principles of compliance with the adoption of a revised set of guidelines. the commission's proposal for the new regulation is based on ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - (pt) the i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that the environmentally friendly design of energy-using products should be promoted, and i therefore also believe that parliament should support the commission's integrated product policy. the environmental impact of a product should not be measured solely by its use or use, as its design throughout its life cycle can play a major role in the impacts it has. i agree with the rapporteur that eco-design should therefore integrate the environment at the stage where the technical possibilities are greatest. i also believe that there are clear benefits for manufacturers (and consumers) from using environmentally friendly design, such as knowledge of and optimal use of raw materials and energy, anticipation and compliance with environmental regulations, and meeting customer and user expectations.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of nuclear safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the safety of nuclear installations. the 'flexible mechanisms of the kyoto protocol' allow parties to meet part of their commitments because they can reduce greenhouse gases in other countries at lower costs than in their own countries. these projects shall result in real, measurable and long-term benefits in terms of climate change mitigation, while being implemented in such a way as to contribute to the sustainable development of the host countries, in particular through the transfer of environmentally friendly technology. on 18 march 2003, the council adopted a common position on a directive on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. by stimulating demand for cdm credits, the present proposal also makes it possible to help developing countries implementing cdm projects to achieve their sustainable development goals. at the same time, the fight against climate change is being pursued through the effective implementation of the kyoto protocol. that is why i voted in favour.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the main problem with batteries and accumulators is that they contain the heavy metals mercury, lead and cadmium. in practice, the collection of mercury, lead and cadmium batteries has not worked, as consumers have not distinguished between them, according to the commission. this has been one of the reasons why the commission has been in favour of battery collection, so that valuable materials can be recovered from all batteries. as i have said on other occasions, i think it is absolutely essential that all forms of waste treatment be used for recycling and/or recycling. however, we must also heed the warnings from the sector concerned that the recycling market needs a period of five years to be sufficiently developed. in addition, the proposed collection rates are too high, especially when compared with the best rates per capita per year in some european countries. finally, i believe that investment should be made in alternative and less costly but safer solutions, which is an area which i would like to see developed in the near future. i have therefore neither voted for nor against the final vote, because i believe that the result of the various votes does not ensure the necessary balance.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the creation of the internal market, the associated liberalisation of road transport and the liberalisation of inland waterway transport in the eu have led to increased competition and an increase in the number of cases where undertakings have gained competitive advantages through non-compliance with community rules on driving and rest periods, as can be seen from the considerable increase in the number of reported infringements. ensuring the correct application of the rules on working time in road transport must therefore be seen in the context of the protection of drivers' rights, but also in the context of competition and road safety. we have therefore rejected the amendments which did not want the directive to include provisions on maximum weekly working hours, night working hours per day, weekly rest periods and driving times between these rest periods and the two-week limitation of driving hours proposed by the commission in annex i. it is regrettable that the council has not yet presented its common position on a regulation on the harmonisation of certain social provisions in road transport, on which parliament gave its opinion in january 2003. we thank the rapporteur for his work.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the case concerns the further development of the first phase of the european refugee fund from 1 january 2000 to 31 december 2004. the second phase of the refugee fund will improve support to member states' efforts to ensure the adequate reception of asylum seekers, to integrate persons in need of international protection in the eu and to implement measures to facilitate the voluntary repatriation of persons not in need of protection or of asylum seekers whose application has been rejected. the programme is divided into two periods (from 2005 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2010) and its total cost is eur 687.48 million. it covers all member states except denmark, including all candidate countries. the second phase of the refugee fund shall comply with the relevant provisions of the treaty. since i believe that this is an area on which there is broad agreement and that the first phase of the refugee fund achieved good results, i have voted in favour of the deprez report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this communication is the result of a consultation process with the various parties concerned, supplemented by ongoing studies, and forms part of a thematic strategy on waste recycling which the commission intends to adopt in september 2004. this strategy - which builds on the community waste management strategy of 1989 and 1996 - aims to promote sustainable waste management, taking account of the three pillars of the environment, the economy and the social sphere, and introduces new concepts and a qualitative and quantitative approach that will certainly help to find the best solutions. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to raise environmental awareness among citizens, businesses, retailers, etc., and i agree that this is the main point to be emphasized in the strategy, with particular emphasis on information campaigns and school projects.
in writing. - (pt) i voted against this report because i believe that it expresses an extreme and centralist, almost inquisitorial approach to what respect for and promotion of the values on which the european union is founded should be, and that, by ignoring the complementary role of the european union in relation to the states of which it is composed, it has chosen to ignore the nature and practice of national democracies, which it instead embraces with regrettable suspicion. as the eu prepares for the biggest enlargement in its history, and in view of the poor image that the annual debate on the report on the situation of human rights in the eu has acquired, it is rather worrying to see the european parliament in the role of 'guardian' of the member states' commitment to democratic values, while ignoring the importance of states and nations in the multiple definition of what it means to be 'europe' and presenting an authoritarian and distorted version of the same reality. i agree with the committee on legal affairs and the internal market when it proposes that the drafting of the possible interinstitutional agreement on the application of article 7 of the teu should not begin until after the accession of the new member states to the union, if at all. i am opposed to the proposal to extend the 'values' on which the european union is founded, including the charter of fundamental rights, and to the ambiguous and excessive extension of the phenomena which must be considered as a clear threat to the values of the european union.
mr president, the first question to be asked in this debate is whether the financial framework proposed by the commission is sufficient to guarantee economic and social cohesion, to guarantee the redistributive nature of the community budget and the commitments to the least developed countries in an enlarged european union of 27 member states, where community gdp will be reduced by more than 12% and economic, social and regional disparities are known to increase, as the third cohesion report shows. well, my answer is no. these prospects are clearly insufficient. just remember the past. the financial perspectives for 1988-92 and 1993-99 raised the own resources ceiling from 1.15% to 1.27% of the community's gross national product. in both cases the structural funds were doubled in the so-called 'delors i' and 'delors ii' packages. agenda 2000 retained the own resources and funds ceiling, even though it was already envisaged that six more countries would be included. in the present proposal, the commission maintains the limits of agenda 2000, even though the present enlargement involves ten countries plus two with average incomes below 40% of the community average. i am talking about the pressure and lack of solidarity on the part of the main net contributors to the six, who want to limit the budget to 1%. however, commissioner michaele schreyer recognises that this proposal - which is low - is only possible because of the process of budgetary consolidation in the current 15 member states: the stability pact and reallocation. but at the expense of what and at the expense of whom? this table shows the risks for both the countries that are about to join and for the cohesion countries, such as portugal, when it is known that the weight of the structural funds for the current member states will be reduced from 0.31% to 0.21% of community income. it was essential to change this situation, to raise the own resources ceiling, to respond to the serious problems of cohesion and poverty and also to defend greater economic and social cohesion among all the countries of the european union.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0272/2004) by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the third report on economic and social cohesion.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to thank you very much for this debate and, above all, for the many constructive contributions i have heard here. we will certainly try to take account of various points, if possible, when drawing up the specific legislative proposals we have promised for july. i would like to make a brief comment on a few points, namely, firstly, how we intend to proceed with the so-called community initiatives in the future. the idea is to reduce the number of these community initiatives, which will of course mean that there will no longer be various specific programmes such as leader or others. but this does not mean that these measures should not be taken in the future, but the idea is that the measures which have been taken under individual community initiatives so far should be integrated into the normal programmes. this is also the way to ensure that equal or gender equality, for example, is given due consideration in the main programmes. as regards the outermost regions, it is clear that there are specific treaty provisions which must be taken into account in the implementation. i know that it has always been a major concern of michel barnier to look after the outermost regions, and i can assure you that this will continue to be ensured. the question of the territorial scope of state aid and the definition required for it is a very sensitive one, and on the other hand there is also the concern that there might be difficulties at the border of such assisted areas. the commission will take special care of this matter. on the other hand, i cannot agree with a member who says that our policy will lose its cohesion after enlargement. this is simply and profoundly wrong. it will continue to ensure that our cohesion objective, which we have set ourselves, is actually achieved. there will be more funds available. it is not just that the funds will be taken away from the eu-15 and transferred to the new eu member states, but that there will be additional funds for this. i am in full agreement with you that we still need a european - i stress - a european cohesion policy, and i do not think that the objective is merely financial balance, as some people are trying to achieve or argue.
- thank you very much, commissioner fischler. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 120)
in writing. the report recognises the enormous disparities between regions, inevitably aggravated by enlargement, that the strengthening of economic and social cohesion has been an obligation since the single act, and that structural investment in cohesion regions benefits the other economies of the union. but it accepts the allocation of 0.41% as a minimum level. insists on maintaining the expenditure target and the n+2 rule, warns against industrial restructuring and relocations, pointing out that companies which have benefited from community aid should not receive new funds when relocating, and that public aid should not be an incentive for relocations; calls for more effective control of the use of the funds and a specific strategy for industrial restructuring and its social impact. it confirms support for regions suffering from the 'statistical effect', has adopted our amendments to remove the phrase 'temporary degressive' and phasing out aid for the current objective 1 regions; the committee of the regions is in favour of maintaining the special status of the outermost regions and of maintaining specific programmes, even if they depart from objective 1. our proposal for regions with permanent handicaps was adopted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: we insist in the defence that the 'statistical effect' should be extended to the cohesion fund.
- the next item is the report (a5-0269/2004) by mr garriga polledo, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2005 budget: commission communication on the annual policy strategy (aps).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0236/2004) by mr kuckelkorn, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the european parliament's budgetary estimates for the financial year 2005.
my question, commissioner, is this: how do you assess the integration of the iberian electricity market, given that it has recently experienced some setbacks and only an interim agreement will come into force? are you optimistic or pessimistic about the integration of the iberian electricity market, which is our closest neighbour?
i am sorry to say, commissioner, that the commissioner has resorted to such generic questions that, in my view, he has almost softened the behaviour of the multinational bombardier in the industrial restructuring it is carrying out. you call it industrial restructuring, but i call it the process of industrial cannibalism: that is, bombardier bought up competing companies, absorbed them and then proceeded to close some of these industrial units in several european countries - for now, in six european countries - including my own country, portugal. now, that kind of behavior is disloyal from my point of view. the commission and the european institutions must be concerned about freedom of competition and competition, which is one of our golden rules, but we also need to draw up legislation against the behaviour of multinationals or companies which carry out restructuring, sometimes almost criminal, because they will destroy very important industrial assets of knowledge, technology and know-how, as is the case with sorefame in portugal, and also draw up rules against relocations themselves. we have entered a new phase, and the commission must have an industrial policy, it must defend its industry without being protectionist.
mr president, i should like to begin by setting the case in perspective. in a memorandum dated 17 march, the management of bombardier transportation informed the employees of its amadora plant in portugal of the restructuring of the group, expressly assuming the termination of 5680 jobs in various european countries by the end of 2005. in portugal, 400 direct jobs are lost, not counting the indirect jobs dependent on bombardier. the portuguese government has made every effort to maintain this unity in the country and, above all, to ensure that jobs are not lost. investment is planned for railways and high-speed rail. despite this, the amadora factory announced its definitive closure for next may, citing a lack of orders for railway rolling stock. the situation of portuguese workers is a matter of grave concern to us. so the questions that arise are as follows: is the rolling stock industry fundamental to the european union or not? is the commission prepared to take measures, particularly in the field of transport policy, which will not only preserve the industry but also encourage its development? these measures must not only ensure that jobs in this sector are maintained, but also prevent europe's dependence on the outside world.
mr president, commissioner, i would also like to say the following: there have been many relocations of multinationals in portugal; unemployment is now growing at an alarming rate, more than 500,000 unemployed in a country where the working population is less than five million. i think you can see the seriousness of the situation. but the case of bombardier, ex-sorefame, in portugal, is a real economic and social crime because it is the only company we have in the field of railway carriage construction which has developed high technology over the years, because its closure means that our country is totally dependent on other countries and because, by putting these workers out of work, decades of knowledge are lost with them. this is an economic and social crime. i ask you, commissioner, how can the european commission say that it is committed to fighting poverty, to creating jobs, to building railways, to environmental, economic and social development, when it allows this to happen to a canadian multinational in a country with serious economic and social problems like portugal?
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your work and on the honesty with which you have looked ahead to what lies ahead, but i cannot understand why your group, perhaps in accordance with what mr heaton-harris has said, has decided to withdraw the question of eurostat from its report. of course the eurostat question is by no means over, of course we have much to see, learn and follow on this. i am sure that the next parliament will do so to the last detail, not least because the matter does not concern eurostat alone, but many other departments of the commission have been involved. i am sure that this parliament will ensure that the serious errors and serious shortcomings which have been detected here will be corrected. that is one thing, but it is quite another to follow an electoral agenda, to do what our colleague mr heaton-harris has reminded us of: there are elections in two months' time and because of them, some people try, out of context, out of place, to make some demagogy to get some electoral effect. for that, they don't count on us, for that kind of folklore, we don't need parliamentary work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have in fact tabled a motion on behalf of my group to reject this report on the grounds that i had the opportunity to raise it in committee. i asked the committee at the close of the debate to have a legal opinion drawn up by the relevant secretariat, the legal service of parliament or the committee on legal affairs on serious questions of the legality or illegality of this report which i raised and presented at the time. i had the impression that my request had been accepted, but i had not heard that opinion until now. and indeed, the report contains some findings of fact and law which are inadmissible in this parliament. in particular, statements of fact are made about which no evidence has ever been produced in the commission, such as, for example, accusations against a publishing company "agora" in paragraph 50 of poland; notes on the composition of the media 7 group, which i admit to be true but no evidence has been presented in paragraph 57, footnote 1; in paragraph 58, footnote 1, on the distribution of advertising investment in italy, which i am not entirely aware of. and, more serious than that, legal considerations which are completely inadmissible in this parliament because they would force us to enter into the discussion of laws of member states and, more than that, of the legislative powers of the member states and even of decisions of the courts of member states. this is the case with a reference in paragraph 49 to a decision of the federal constitutional court of germany, in paragraph 49 to a draft law submitted by the bundesrat. i wonder how we can judge the legislative process initiated in the bundesrat in germany, or the legality or illegality of certain facts in the light of italian national law, law 249/97, or decisions of italian national authorities, or decisions of judgments of the italian constitutional court. all these are matters which i am not in a position to discuss for one simple reason: our parliament has no competence to do so, and i therefore ask that this report be declared inadmissible or that it be referred back to the commission until a proper legal assessment is made of these serious matters.
mr president, having decided on the voting procedure for tomorrow, it is not clear to me whether or not it will be possible to vote on the basis of rule 144 of the rules of procedure on referral back to the commission. what is happening and what we are witnessing is an inevitable, healthy reaction to the serious irregularities contained in the report, which in my view usurps the powers of the constitutional institutions of the member states. that is what is giving rise to this inevitable, just and legitimate reaction to the abuse of the majority in this house, which invokes the treaties to violate them, which invokes the constitution and the charter of fundamental rights to also violate some of its rules. i therefore consider it essential that the house should reflect again on this matter and vote to refer it back to the commission so that the report can be cleared of its irregularities. and so i ask the president that this motion be considered tomorrow and put to the vote.
in writing. - (pt) it is essential that eu legislation be simplified and clarified so that it is more accessible to the general public and easier for everyone to read. objectives such as these will be difficult to achieve if we maintain a number of provisions on the same subject, many of which are significantly amended. the purpose of the commission's proposal - which i of course support - is to codify the first council directive of 23 july 1962 on the establishment of certain rules for international carriage (commercial carriage of goods by road) and the other laws as amended, retaining the substance and including only the formal changes required in the codification process. this is in line with the commission's decision of 1 april 1987 to ask the services to codify all acts after the tenth amendment in order to ensure that community rules are clear and easy to understand. this was confirmed in the presidency conclusions of the edinburgh european council in december 1992, which stressed the importance of codification. i have voted in favour of this report and recommend that the proposal be adopted.
in writing. - (pt) it is essential that eu legislation be simplified and clarified so that it is more accessible to the general public and easier for everyone to read. objectives such as these will be difficult to achieve if we maintain a number of provisions on the same subject, many of which are significantly amended. the purpose of the commission's proposal - which i of course support - is to codify the first council directive of 23 july 1962 on the establishment of certain rules for international carriage (commercial carriage of goods by road) and the other laws as amended, retaining the substance and including only the formal changes required in the codification process. this is in line with the commission's decision of 1 april 1987 to ask the services to codify all acts after the tenth amendment in order to ensure that community rules are clear and easy to understand. this was confirmed in the presidency conclusions of the edinburgh european council in december 1992, which stressed the importance of codification. i have voted in favour of this report and recommend that the proposal be adopted.
in writing. - (pt) the the report by mr berenguer fuster asks for the adoption of a proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the european community on a draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe. the document in question is clear and unambiguous and forms part of a series of measures to prevent technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles for the contracting parties. in this case, it is hoped that a new regulation will be adopted on uniform technical requirements for the fire performance of materials used in the interior of certain classes of vehicles. the forthcoming meeting of the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) at the world forum for harmonisation of regulations will be an appropriate occasion for a vote on this issue on behalf of the eu by the commission representatives. it should be recalled that the eu acceded to the revised 1958 agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe in 1997, whereby the council decision entered into force on 24 march 1998. it should also be noted that the draft regulation will clearly lead to greater environmental safety and protection. i voted in favour of the report because i fully support the points of view in the report.
in writing. - (pt) mr berenguer fuster's report asks for the adoption of a proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the european community on a draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe. the document in question is clear and unambiguous and forms part of a series of measures to prevent technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles for the contracting parties. in this case, it is hoped that a new regulation on uniform technical requirements for theft protection of motor vehicles will be adopted. i voted in favour of the report, as i did for the other packages, because i fully support the points of view in the report.
in writing. - (pt) mr berenguer fuster's report asks for the adoption of a proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the european community on a draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe. the document in question is clear and unambiguous and forms part of a series of measures to prevent technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles for the contracting parties. in this case, it is hoped that a new regulation will be adopted on uniform technical requirements for the approval of tyres with regard to rolling noise. i voted in favour of the report, as i did for the other packages, because i fully support the points of view in the report.
in writing. - (pt) the the proposal before us is to change the scope of three regulations, which are specific measures for the implementation of the common agricultural policy in the outermost regions. measures shall be taken to improve the production and marketing of agricultural products in the regions concerned and to remedy the effects of their particular geographical situation and the disadvantages associated therewith. in order to avoid distortions in trade in the products concerned, re-export and onward dispatch of the products concerned from the outermost regions is prohibited under these rules, with a few exceptions. the prohibition and the inflexibility of the derogations have had a negative impact on the development of the economic activities of certain operators. the proposal calls for authorization to export and dispatch the products concerned after reimbursement of the economic gain. additional measures apply to the azores and madeira. at present, the prohibition on re-export and onward dispatch of products covered by the special supply arrangements does not apply to trade between the azores and madeira and no distinction is made between processed and unprocessed products. sugar from madeira covered by the special supply arrangements has been the subject of speculative trade in the azores, where the market is facing serious difficulties. it is therefore proposed that trade between the azores and madeira in products covered by the special supply arrangements be limited to processed products. i voted for the report.
in writing. - (pt) in view of the importance of the european audiovisual observatory and the excellent work it is doing, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to accept the commission's proposal to extend the eu's participation in the european observatory for two years while respecting the current budget. there are only two amendments: to strengthen capacity where possible, firstly, and secondly to propose that the european observatory should collect and make available expertise and systematic information in the fields of tax and labour law, copyright and consumer protection law.
in writing. - (pt) it is well known that the european audiovisual observatory is based on an extended sub-agreement with the council of europe. the european observatory currently has 35 participating states, including all current and future eu member states. the purpose of the body is to improve the transmission of information in the audiovisual industry and to promote and ensure the transparency of the markets. the commission is proposing to extend the eu's participation in the european observatory for a further two years until december 2006 and to keep within the annual budget of eur 235 000 for 2004. i fully support the proposal. i also support the rapporteur's proposal, firstly, to strengthen the capacity of the european observatory where possible and, secondly, to have the european observatory collect and make available expertise and systematic information in the fields of tax and labour law, copyright and consumer protection legislation. finally, i would stress the importance of addressing the lack of statistical information and benchmarking in relation to services to support the blind and visually impaired and the deaf and hard of hearing in the eu. it would be appropriate for the european observatory to take over the role of collecting and publishing information on this. i shall vote in favour of the report for the reasons i have just mentioned.
in the case of tobacco, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tobacco industry is not left behind. tobacco smoking is a major health threat and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu and the member states take measures to safeguard public health. a new well-documented example is the requirement that all packages be marked with warning labels covering at least 30% of the surface of the package. nevertheless, it is widely recognised that more effort is needed and this framework convention has been drawn up for that purpose. although i am opposed to the genuine and exaggerated attitude towards smoking, as we have seen in the examples, i agree that in some places citizens should be protected from smoking. i therefore welcome the measures taken to prohibit the sale of tobacco to minors, the increased cooperation between member states and the marketing recommendations, particularly as they are not binding. although the report has received positive reactions from the committees involved and although the adoption of the who framework convention will not have serious economic consequences and will not affect existing legislation, i have continued the concerns i expressed during the parliamentary process, particularly with regard to ensuring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i have abstained.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) directive 2001/113/ec harmonises the labelling of marmalade and fruit jelly and chestnut cream intended for human consumption. each product is defined separately with its own specified content. the purpose of the proposal is to amend the german language version of the directive, since the word 'marmalade' in certain parts of austria traditionally has a broader meaning than that hitherto used in the directive, and to incorporate both this correction and other possible semantic misunderstandings. although the proposal addresses a very specific error, it also contains, in my view, two broader values which should be given priority on the european agenda, namely respect for traditions and customs and multilingualism. without these values, europe will, in my view, become a 'narrow' one, a victim of the tendency towards homogeneity which is not in line with the reality of local communities. for the sake of clarity, i have voted in favour of the report.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to grant discharge to the european coal and steel community for the financial year ended 23 july 2002. we have no objection to that. the expiry of the ecsc treaty has automatically resulted in the disappearance of the legal order and procedures of the ecsc and the dissolution of the ecsc consultative committee set up by that treaty. in 2002, however, the ecsc continued to finance the retraining of workers within the budget with eur 35 million, research with eur 72 million and with an additional commitment of eur 21 million to the rechar programme for social measures in the coal industry. in view of the crisis in the coal and steel sector and the social and economic costs of the restructuring which has taken place in recent decades, the dismantling of the ecsc - despite the criticism which has been levelled at it - has left a gap to be filled, also at community level, which the new research fund for coal and steel cannot fill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the point of this report is that the european coal and steel community (ecsc) has paid out some eur 800 million for applied research in enterprises and institutes alone without, as a rule, receiving its contractual share of the revenues obtained by these enterprises and institutes as a result of the patents made possible by the aid, as was expressly provided for in the ecsc research agreements. the commission must therefore maintain its legal right to share in the profits generated by the financing of research by means of a registration procedure and other appropriate measures. i also welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations with the candidate countries on the terms of their participation in the new research fund for coal and steel, under which their contributions are determined on the basis of the extent of their underground resources and paid in instalments based on their respective economic situation. we agree with the rapporteur's views and have therefore voted in favour of the report. we can also join the rapporteur in praising all those who have created and developed the european coal and steel community and who have done a significant job in uniting europe.
in writing. - (pt) i would like to congratulate mr bradbourn on his excellent report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council decision no 1692/96/ec of 23 july 1996 on community guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network. i welcome the report, particularly the strategy for the reconstruction of the transeuropean transport network, which is one of the most important aspects of the functioning of the internal market. i fully support mr bradbourne's request that parliament be involved in and monitor the development of projects which are part of the development of the transeuropean transport network. i also support the request in article 3 (2) of the commission's revised proposal, in particular the regional airports should be highlighted as they also play a very important role in the development of the transeuropean transport network.
in the last part-session of parliament, representatives of the bombardier group, a company specialising in the manufacture of rolling stock for the railway sector, presented their case to members of parliament and their concerns about the loss of recognised quality standards, experience and technological capacity in the construction of this type of equipment, which will result from the impending closure of six units in the eu. we believe that the commission and the member states have a responsibility to make it possible to destroy this important sector and to put thousands of workers out of work. in portugal alone, this situation has led to 550 direct job losses and almost 1,000 additional job losses in subcontracting companies. if the future priority in the development of transeuropean transport networks is to shift from road to rail transport in particular, much more new equipment and rolling stock will be needed, and this is where bombardie's arguments to justify the notified measures - namely a lack of orders - do not hold. although some aspects of the proposal under discussion deserve criticism, we must show our support for its attempts to find alternative modes of transport which are less harmful to the environment, such as rail transport. this is not an isolated case and special measures must be taken to protect this key sector of european industry.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) unlike the structural funds, which are usually far-reaching and very important, life is a source of funding for actions to protect nature and the environment. such actions are designed to promote the dissemination of different practices, develop innovative actions and demonstrate how skills and experience can be used elsewhere, and they also help to enforce eu environmental policies and legislation. this instrument contributes to the implementation of the birds directive (79/409/eec) and the habitats directive (92/43/eec) and in particular to the establishment of the european natura 2000 network, which aims to manage and conserve the main fauna and flora and habitats in the eu, for example by creating special areas of conservation. life iii is due to expire on 31 december 2004. this proposal aims to extend the existing instrument to ensure continuity until new measures are developed in the light of the new financial perspectives after 2006. i have of course voted in favour of the report. i hope, however, that the conclusions of the article 8 group (habitats directive) will be accepted, in particular the conclusions that the current funding of natura 2000 through the life-nature instrument (47% of the total funding of the life programme) is clearly insufficient, that the application process is too bureaucratic and that the life-nature programme needs to be significantly strengthened and that in ... (the minutes were approved)
in the light of the recent events, the commission has decided to withdraw its proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the only thing that parliament has accepted is to obtain an opinion from the court of justice. the commission proposal and the subsequent proposal for a council decision will result in 'access by us law enforcement authorities to pnr databases located on eu territory', which will then result in 'the exercise of sovereign power by the us on eu territory' in eu countries. this agreement will 'leave us legislation in this area in force in the eu and for european citizens' and 'transfer to the eu the discretion of member states ... to authorise the use of information originally collected for commercial purposes for security purposes and to ... impose a legal obligation on european airlines to provide access to such information'. as regards the safeguarding of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees, 'the draft agreement does not define the scope and limits of these rights, but merely refers to a unilateral decision of the commission, which itself refers to some unilateral statements of the us government, which finally refers to current and future rules in the us'.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the question was raised in the context of the boogerd-quaak report on the eu-us agreement on the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the us department of homeland security (a5-0271/2004). the report now before us is to be put to the vote, since the consultation has been approved. there is a strong case today for such agreements because of the growing threat of terrorism. it should be a basic measure of cooperation between countries, and blocking it only prolongs the lack of a firm eu response to the terrorist threat. unlike the rapporteur, i believe that if this agreement is signed, it will be in accordance with the ec treaty and will not be in breach of european data protection legislation. i fully support commissioner pattens' reasoning. instead of blocking the implementation of measures such as this, parliament should work towards requiring airlines flying into the territory of the eu to comply with obligations of this kind and thus guarantee the safety of the individual. since i completely disagree both politically and technically with a recommendation to the council not to conclude this agreement with the united states, i voted against hearing the ec court of justice, which in my view is an unworthy delaying tactic and a new obstacle to an agreement which is necessary for our security and freedom.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take effective action in the field of border security without encroaching on the competences of the member states. i welcome this proposal for a regulation which ensures the uniform implementation in the member states of the requirement to stamp systematically the travel documents of third country nationals when they cross the external borders of the union. this measure will meet the need to be able to check the date on which a third-country national crossed the external border, the length of time a third-country national has stayed on the territory of the union and whether the person is present illegally or not. a revision of the common manual on external borders will be a very complex task and will therefore take a long time to adopt. the purpose of this proposal is to compensate for the current disparities between member states and for the ambiguities that may arise in the rules of the manual during the review. it is a step towards tighter controls at the external borders and a strengthening of mutual trust between member states in the field of border controls. as we are dealing with common borders, a lack of security in one member state will inevitably have repercussions in all the other member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the schengen acquis provides that, for short stays, third-country nationals entering the territory of the member states who fulfil the necessary conditions for entry have the right to stay in the schengen area for a maximum period of three months from the date of first entry. it is therefore necessary to verify the dates on which a third-country national has crossed the external border in order to calculate the total period of stay and to verify whether he is legally present. the common manual on external borders provides for the stamping of travel documents and the relaxation of border controls in specific cases, mainly because of the congestion which occurs in such circumstances. the ambiguity of this provision has led to the adoption of different procedures in each member state, and this should be avoided. consequently, and in view of enlargement, we accepted mrs angelillis's view that this is a first step towards a final harmonisation of procedures, for example stamping the travel documents of third country nationals when they leave the schengen area.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the schengen acquis provides that, for short stays, third-country nationals entering the territory of the member states who fulfil the necessary conditions for entry have the right to stay in the schengen area for a maximum period of three months from the date of first entry. the ambiguity of this provision has led to the adoption of different procedures in the individual member states. there have been many cases of third-country nationals who have entered the schengen area legally but who did not have an entry stamp on their travel documents, making it more difficult to carry out the checks that are increasingly necessary due to the new challenges of international terrorism. the last meeting of the council (ministers of justice and home affairs) under the italian presidency therefore adopted conclusions on proposing the systematic stamping of travel documents of third country nationals in view of the enlargement of the union. this proposal is a step towards that goal. the common manual on external borders provides for the stamping of travel documents and the relaxation of border controls in specific cases, mainly because of the congestion which occurs in such circumstances. i am pleased with the quality of the work that we have begun to expect... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in the light of the recent developments in the field of drugs, the commission has decided to launch a new action programme on drugs, which will be implemented by the european commission in the course of the year. it makes sense that the regulation establishing the emcdda should be recast for reasons of clarity and transparency, in particular to adapt it to the enlargement of the eu and to extend the mandate to cover the use of more substances, covering both legal and illegal substances. however, i cannot accept the attempt to impose assessment tasks on the emcdda. the purpose of the monitoring centre is not only to collect data but also to assess national policies and strategies and to assess trends in drug use. it would impose on an agency powers which member states currently have. the monitoring centre will be entrusted with the task of providing general information, i.e. collecting, analysing and disseminating information on all aspects of drugs and drug addiction, which will provide the eu and its member states with a comprehensive picture of drugs and drug addiction. this task should be without prejudice to the allocation of competences between the union and the member states with regard to the legal provisions on drug supply and demand.
the european union has always been a priority in the fight against drugs and drug abuse, and this has been reflected in its other policies, particularly in the last decade. the council therefore intends in its proposal for a regulation to take this fight to a new level. nevertheless, it has become clear that the many amendments scattered throughout the report are detrimental to this fundamental objective. while i agree that an extension of the powers of the monitoring centre seems to be a welcome measure, i cannot accept the amendments which seek to ensure that parliament is represented by two members of the board and that the number of evaluation tools is increased. the actions proposed in the report, and in particular those of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, are not, in my view, the best strategy to follow. i could not vote for the report. i would suggest instead that the eu, the european observatory and also the member states join forces, either together or individually, not in the form of tasks that waste resources but in the form of measures that clearly lead to prevention. we need measures that effectively help to combat drug trafficking and abuse.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the 2002 discharge process was marked by the eurostat case and the commission's ongoing reform. we have serious reservations about both of these matters. despite recent scandals and in the light of the cases which led to the commission's fall in 1999, the administrative reforms announced seem to be almost exclusively cosmetic. the so-called administrative culture still needs to be changed, as the eurostat case shows. measures are needed to ensure that important information is not withheld. the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council and to the european parliament, and to the council and to the european parliament. the eurostat case also highlights the need to review the chain of responsibility within the commission and the relationship between the various key players and commissioners. the report also confirms that it was a mistake to concentrate budgetary and accounting powers for the fight against fraud in the hands of a single commissioner. i would also like to say at sectoral level that i cannot support paragraph 115, which proposes a future european tax to replace national contributions from the member states to the eu budget, nor paragraph 182, which supports the n+2 rule for the structural funds.
in writing. - (pt) the excellent results achieved by the sixth, seventh and eighth european development funds (edfs) should encourage us to continue this most important aspect of eu action, which is to create genuine solidarity with the most disadvantaged parts of the world by supporting macroeconomic or sectoral reforms. i welcome the proposal that the acp countries (african, caribbean and pacific countries) in particular should agree to introduce a multiannual programme to establish and/or strengthen a supreme audit body before budget support can be granted. the credibility and effectiveness of the edf depends to a large extent on the transparency of these funds and on the ability of the production and retail sectors to demonstrate that they are being used appropriately. it will also make it possible to make a more reliable comparison with the eu's own financial perspective. finally, i can agree with the committee on budgetary control that, apart from the political importance of budgeting, there are considerable advantages in terms of budgetary management to be gained by incorporating the edf into the general budget of the eu, such as more efficient implementation due to the possibility of harmonising existing procedures, greater flexibility in implementation, greater transparency regarding overall eu support, and the current problems with transitional measures between the european development funds can be avoided. i voted for the report.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the reason why i voted against this report is reflected in the roll-call votes on the statute for members and the retention of strasbourg as the seat of parliament. as regards the first point, although i agree with many of the amendments tabled, i believe that they only make sense if they are incorporated in a future statute for members, as the rapporteur acknowledges to some extent in the explanatory statement. there is no guarantee that the statute will come into force, which i would like to see. that is a wish which i have clearly expressed in previous votes. in fact, the council recently rejected it. as regards the retention of strasbourg as the seat of parliament, i am fully aware that any change in the present situation requires a corresponding change in the treaties. however, there is no reason why i should not express my opinion on the matter, which has nothing to do with any disrespect for france or the french. it merely shows my principled opposition to a regrettable doubling of the cost, without any visible benefit to the quality of parliament's work or to the working conditions of members or staff.
in writing. - (pt) i support the report to point out that, as expected, there is no agreement on the statute for members of parliament. it is a matter which i have followed with particular interest both as a member of parliament and as quaestor from 1994 to 1999. i think it is a political question and i would say unequivocally that the allowances and expenses of members of parliament should be based on the economic and social situation of the member state in which they are elected, because once elected they are here in parliament to represent their communities - that is at least one of the reasons for their presence here.
in writing. - (pt) i voted against the van hulten report because the rapporteur has taken the opportunity, in the context of the evaluation of the implementation of parliament's accounts, to make a very unbiased statement of his own political views on the system of payments to members and the location of parliament's seats. these issues, which are causing deep divisions in parliament, must therefore not be seen in isolation, as is currently the case, and even less so at the end of a legislative period and clearly as a result of a particular personal interest and inappropriate pressure from the media whose sole purpose is to damage the legitimacy of the forthcoming elections. the rapporteur has not served the european cause well this time and should not have the approval of parliament.
in the light of the major financial scandals around the world, such as the enron and parmalat cases and their systemic nature, the commission is trying to show that it has been working on the matter to increase the transparency of companies, in other words the management of companies (which seems to be the way they are run) and their sense of social responsibility. it is like closing the barn door after the horse has run away, but once you remove the declarations of intent and appeals to the goodwill of the business community, there is only propaganda left in the report, as the objectives are quite different. they are to restore public confidence, particularly in financial markets, to make rules more flexible to facilitate crossborder restructuring of eu companies, to increase the competitiveness of companies and to improve protection for shareholders and creditors. we are therefore not satisfied that the commission, instead of focusing on the relations between shareholders and management - between ownership and management - has not placed greater emphasis on the effective protection of workers and their participation and participation by the organisations representing them in the decision-making process about the life of their undertakings. these workers have fewer rights than creditors and must have not only a minimum right to be informed and consulted but also the right to participate actively with a veto in decisions which are important for the continued existence of the company and for jobs.
in writing. - (pt) i voted for the same reasons, namely the need to modernise european rules on company law and corporate governance. the key policy objectives (increased shareholder rights and protection of third parties, improvement of the efficiency and competitiveness of enterprises, etc.) are at stake, and they should form the basis for all the action needed in this field at community level. they include an action plan listing the various measures considered necessary in the short, medium and long term, in order of priority. however, when drawing up the action plan, particular attention should be paid to the need to meet a number of indicative criteria, in particular the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, and to allow for a certain degree of flexibility in the way the plan is applied. the action plan is also an important step towards creating a transparent and healthy capital market in an enlarged union, particularly in the light of recent events in japan and subsequently in the united states and europe - in particular the parmalat case. in such a market, further appropriate measures of sound financial management are needed to avoid similar scandals and their economic and social consequences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report in which the commission proposes to revise the european legal basis for company law and corporate governance by proposing measures to improve the competitiveness of industry, which is a key factor in economic growth and job creation, to protect shareholders and creditors and to strengthen transparency in the activities of companies. although i can support the report and although the rapporteur is a social democrat, i voted against the amendments which the social democrat group subsequently tabled. i could not accept paragraph 21 of the original text, which calls on the commission to adopt the principle of one share, one vote, on the untenable grounds that it would ensure equal treatment for all shareholders. contrary to what is stated in this paragraph, equal treatment of shareholders has nothing to do with the principle of one share, one vote. in addition to being a matter for community organisations, the rules linking shareholder participation in society to voting rights are proportionality rules, under which equality is fully respected.
in writing. - (pt) we reaffirm our continued solidarity with the cypriot people in their struggle against the turkish military occupation and for the reunification of their country. we believe that it is a matter of principle and a fundamental requirement to ensure that the sovereign decision of the cypriot people in the present and the future, which is the decision of the cypriot people alone, is respected without unacceptable interference, extortion or pressure, especially in connection with the plan presented by the un secretary-general on 31 march and which will be put to the referendum on 24 april. we therefore firmly reject any intention or attempt to renegotiate the accession treaty of the republic of cyprus with the eu, to consider turkey's accession to the eu when the so-called copenhagen criteria have not been met in any way, or to legitimise turkey's occupation of part of cyprus. that is why we voted against the motion for a resolution, in which the amendments tabled by our group were not even considered.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the aim of the report is to speed up the creation of a single euro payments area by 2010 and thus make a further contribution to the completion of the internal market. in the name of competition, the interests of economic operators are given priority over consumer protection. it is interesting that the rapporteur is most concerned with the efficiency of the payments sector, which is described as 'unsatisfactory'. however, it does not say anything about the fees that consumers have to pay, about the higher fees and commissions for payment services such as cash transfers, which has happened especially in the banking sector after the euro was put into circulation. it has punished consumers severely, it has not been seriously investigated, and there is no appropriate legislation. the rapporteur is, however, quick to reject the idea of holding payment service providers responsible in the event of disagreements between the trader and the customer, the idea of maximum fees for closing bank accounts and limiting personal contributions by customers in the event of unauthorised transactions. he also believes that there are too many obligations on traders to provide information to customers. that is why we voted against the report. we also have reservations about the scope of the future legal framework for national payments, as consumers clearly should not have found themselves in conditions less favourable than they are now.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the need to extend and complete the internal market requires that payment services be more efficient. the introduction of euro banknotes and coins in early 2002 has helped to make cash payments more efficient. the introduction of new systems - such as target - for the banking sector has also streamlined cross-border large-value transfers with visible benefits for consumers by applying a coordinated approach to the security of transactions and the efficiency and speed of the system. the shortcomings of the small-value crossborder transfer sector are clearly rooted in the inadequate legal framework at eu level proposed by the commission. nevertheless, we still do not know the structure of this framework, i.e. the form and number of loan instruments. i can in principle support the commission's intention, although i agree with some of the rapporteur's points, in particular the warning that legislative initiatives should be limited to the general framework and a number of selected areas, giving the operators the necessary scope for self-regulation.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound production of products. the commission's strategy for an integrated product policy is to press for sustainable development, i.e. pragmatic involvement of the parties involved such as those working on the projects, the various sectors of industry, retailers and consumers, and to create an appropriate economic and legal framework (acquisitions that are more environmentally sound, promotion of organic labelling) and promotion of research (development of pilot projects targeted at specific products). as i have mentioned many times before, european industry and producers need to be made more aware of the importance of genuine sustainable economic growth and sustainable production systems, which involve recycling, waste treatment, water protection, etc., in order to live up to the growing awareness of the european public. this issue is gaining importance in eu policy and the communication is a step in this direction. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - (pt) the we are pleased that two important proposals which we have put forward again in plenary have been adopted. the first proposal recognises that to guarantee safety at sea, crew members must be qualified, have decent working hours and conditions and a fair wage, and that the exploitation that takes place on countless vessels must be brought to an end. the commission is therefore invited to adopt legislative measures to harmonise and strengthen this profession in europe and to work towards this idea under the auspices of the imo. the second proposal calls for the eu to ban flags of convenience in european territorial waters. that is why we voted for it.
in writing. - (pt) i congratulate mr sterckx on his report on safety at sea and i fully support it. i share the concerns about safety at sea expressed by the temporary committee on enhanced safety at sea and the rapporteur, who have reminded all parties involved that the issue of safety at sea still requires significant and sustained political attention. this will determine the quality and safety of vessels sailing in european waters and european vessels worldwide, as well as the protection of the coasts and the european public. i fully support the measures adopted in this area, in particular those prohibiting single-hull tankers carrying heavy oil from european waters and those giving additional powers to the european maritime safety agency. i would like to conclude by reaffirming something i have said on several occasions during my term of office, namely that security is everyone's responsibility and requires everyone's efforts.
in the light of the recent disasters of the erika and prestige oil tankers, parliament adopted a resolution in september 2003 setting up a temporary committee to deal specifically with maritime safety issues. the committee has held several consultations with experts and leaders from eu countries, which contributed to a deeper understanding of the issue. its work ends with the adoption by the plenary of a resolution summing up the work of the committee over a period of about six months. unfortunately, because some of the contributions were contradictory, the temporary committee was not able to clarify the causes and circumstances of the prestige's sinking completely, as is also mentioned in the sterckx report. i share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly when he points out ways of improving safety at sea and highlights a number of points which i believe are important, such as the need for the eu to work with countries affected by maritime disasters, the publication of a blacklist of ships which are denied access to eu waters and the development of a system for tracking vessels carrying dangerous goods at sea. although the temporary committee has hitherto had to look after the interests of the institutions, the member states and other organizations working in this field, it is now up to each of them to absorb these concerns and, above all, to bear in mind ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, mr minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what we have just heard. we too would prefer a report which is in the common core of the culture of human rights, which is based on the united nations universal declaration of human rights. i believe that this is the direction we should be taking, and not the exploitation of these reports for one particular purpose or another. the report, i admit, is better than the initial version which came across the committee, but i still have some remarks i would like to make personally on behalf of my party and my group. firstly, the sakharov prize and the three sakharov prize laureates who continue to be persecuted. the resolution is unbalanced, citing in the explanatory statement three cases in turkey, burma and cuba, and then, in paragraph 23 of the final resolution, it forgets the situation of osvaldo payá in cuba. i think that should be corrected, otherwise we could be accused of lack of memory and sectarianism. secondly, i also feel that there is still no well-balanced approach to terrorism. but above all i want to express my reservations about the way in which the issue of reproductive health is being introduced in this area and especially the association of abortion with reproductive health, with which i disagree. to quote just a few figures from the report, the explanatory statement says that 100 abortions are performed every minute and 70,000 women die. i have done the math and it means that 52.56 million unborn children die in ordinary years, and 52.7 million in leap years, plus 70,000 women. it is indeed a matter of concern, but in a completely different vein: in the vein of affirming the right to life.
mr president, unlike other modes of transport, the liberalisation of markets has only brought the railway sector to the surface. for this reason, this mode of transport has been suffering a marked loss of influence in favour of competing sectors, especially road transport. that is why we welcome the presentation of this second railway package in which the commission is proposing new measures to allow us to continue on the path of liberalisation while maintaining the safety standards required for the sector. we also take this opportunity to congratulate the excellent work done by our fellow rapporteurs. in our view, the compromise reached with the council is acceptable on the points which were in conflict. the most complex issue was undoubtedly the scope of the liberalisation process, which clashes with strongly consolidated interests in the different member states in view of the special role played by the railway sector in the economy of each of them. in this respect, the compromise reached moderates the most radical proposals, while at the same time keeping in mind the future opening up of the market to rail passenger transport. another point which stands out is the agreement reached on the composition of the management board of the future european agency. fortunately, it was possible to accept the principle, which has already been applied in other agencies, of including a representative of each member state in the council. a final word on the need to increase a common strategy for railway safety, which is one of the aspects of greatest interest to users of this transport sector. we fully agree with the need to harmonize the minimum safety standards in this area, as well as the provisions in force in the various member states, and we should also highlight the set of proposals by the committee on transport on the introduction of a safety certificate, the training and certification of railway staff and the introduction of a common vehicle language for international transport, similar to what is happening in the aviation sector. in short, the commitment reached reveals the courageous and forward-looking vision that we all must share in this important transport sector.
mr president, the transeuropean networks have brought back rail transport, a symbol of the investment and public service that characterized decades and illustrated epic achievements in accessibility for such humanized spaces. the liberalising, class derivative, like other collateral ones, would have to come to the railway, like education, like health and water, erecting the market economy in a single, fundamentalist ideology. not that we miss it, but we want to turn back time. but we want to help the railways, and with them the public services, to get on the rails of the future for the benefit of the people, not exclusively driven by financial interests, serving a few areas and moving at high speeds. interoperable networks, multimodal interconnection, effective safety, environmental protection, and the participation and actual responsibility of member states as an essential part of a railway structure are the conditions for this to be possible. so i thank the rapporteurs for their work.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs hermange and mrs randzio-plath, and i will confine my remarks to mrs hermange's report, to say that, although the recent reforms of the employment guidelines have been positive, it now seems clear that the european union will not achieve the lisbon objectives set for 2010. given that the employment rate is currently 64%, to reach 70% by 2010 will require the creation of 22 million jobs in the new european union of 25. only by developing competitiveness and growth potential will europe be able to increase employment and productivity. the spring 2004 summit therefore made recommendations for employment with the aim of highlighting the priority areas for action for each member state, insisting on strengthening the exchange of good practice and experience which play a key role in the european employment strategy. i support the excellent report by mrs marie-thères and mrs hermange, who stress the need to make the most effective use of all the instruments already available, to make an effort to implement what has already been agreed and to mobilise all the actors involved. my country, for example, portugal, is well on the way to achieving the lisbon employment targets, although it has recently seen the unemployment rate rise, mainly due to the relocation of multinational companies. the unemployment rate is still below the community average. portugal is ahead of the curve in its employment objectives for women and older workers. but let us not be deceived by the questions: the economic environment in europe today is very different from that which was the scene at the lisbon summit in 2000. the economic and financial situation in some member states requires austerity policies, restraint in public finances and, above all, the need for structural reforms, which are a prerequisite for economic growth and job creation. the member states which, in this climate of economic slowdown, have the courage not to give in to easygoing attitudes and to undertake the necessary reforms of labour legislation, social security systems and so on deserve more than reprimands, but also encouragement and incentives for their capacity to reform. we are certain that without structural reforms europe will not achieve the levels of growth needed to achieve the lisbon objectives.
madam president, romano prodi recently declared that the recovery in germany and italy is non-existent, which means that all the uncertainties, doubts and risks about the economic recovery of the euro zone formulated earlier remain for the current year. this statement merely transposes the pessimistic forecasts made by the commission for 2004 into the political arena. it is therefore against this background that we must examine the development of the european economy in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines. we can't keep deluding ourselves. we have at our disposal powerful theoretical tools such as those resulting from the lisbon strategy or from good practice in the coordination of economic policies. but we also have powerful limitations, such as those resulting from an overly rigid interpretation of the stability and growth pact, which undermine all the efforts made. the question is increasingly political, that is, a question of choice, and if it is true that there can be long-term sustainable economic development only with financial consolidation, it is also true that there will be no financial consolidation, even in the short term, without economic growth. europe needs a new agenda focused on the problems of the economy and employment, rather than the current agenda focused on the budget deficit and public spending, which have become a veritable obsession. europe does indeed need structural reforms, but it also needs the financial means to carry them out. and at an early stage, there will always be increased public spending or reduced tax revenue. this is only possible with a fundamental change in the existing budgetary rules. that is why the commission's announced proposals for the revision of the stability and growth pact are starting to be delayed, especially if these proposals focus on the essentials and do not merely sweeten the regulatory aspects of control. the reform of the cfp is inevitable, particularly as this instrument has been suspended since 25 november. it is no longer possible for the new rules to ignore the evolution of the economic cycle, to disregard the specificities of each member state without prejudice to the budgetary conciliation effort of the euro area as a whole. and above all, they ignore the role of public investment and quality spending in the development framework. the aim of zero budget deficits in the euro area in the long term is a total nonsense which no economic theory supports and which would be the absurdity of a public debt that, at the limit, would be equal to zero. i think these concerns are reflected in the excellent report by our colleague, mrs christa randzio-plath, whom i also warmly welcome, because my association with her over the last three years has shown me that she is a capable, competent, determined and profoundly european woman.
mr president, i would just like to remind you that yesterday i tabled, as announced, a motion for referral back to committee, which i hope i can table before the vote on the report as i hope it will be voted on by the house. it is the last chance for this house to get in line with the rule of law.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report sets a very serious precedent for the future. it is full of irregularities in substance, procedure and form. we cannot invoke democracy and then violate democracy. nor can you invoke the rule of law and then have the rule of law violated. that is what is happening with the motion for a resolution before us. it violates the provisions and guarantees of the treaties and even if the charter of fundamental rights and the constitution were already in force, in the words of some, it would empty out both of them. as a european institution, we have only the powers that are given to us. but can we judge the decisions of the constitutional courts of the member states, especially germany and italy? no, i'm not going. can we judge the legality of a particular fact in the context of the national laws of the member states, particularly italy? no, i'm not going. can we declare certain facts - in particular for italy and poland - as established by a people's court, for which no evidence has been produced or presented? no, you can't! can we determine the national legislative process of the german bundesrat? no, you can't! some say that the report is covered by article 7 of the treaty. but then you had to act accordingly and you didn't. others say it is based on the charter of fundamental rights. but even if it were already in force and in application, one must read its article 51, which is still in the draft constitution, according to which the charter applies only to the european institutions and the member states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the honey production and marketing aid programme is very important for the survival of the bee-keeping industry. according to portuguese beekeepers, one aspect of this programme has proved to be crucial, namely the section on the control of varroasis. however, beekeepers believe that varroosis should be controlled through a specific programme in the same way as other diseases in other animal species. as regards the parliament's report, there is general agreement that the need to maintain the aid programme for the production and marketing of honey is underlined. finally, it is also important to apply the following other measures: - aid for the restoration and conservation of bee populations in the light of the growing problems in this sector; - restructuring of the measures aimed at environmentally friendly agriculture so that this measure can be seen as an effective aid in the same way as in other agricultural sectors. however, it is also important to take account of the forthcoming enlargement of the union and to increase the budget for the beekeeping sector.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe that in the context of the enlargement of the european union we must not forget to take account of the changes which will necessarily affect the beekeeping sector and that an increase in the budget in this area is justified. i also believe that we must consider carefully what methods and measures can best solve the problems in this sector such as diseases, high bee mortality, poisoning from insecticides, climate change, marketing problems (especially in the countries and regions at the community's periphery) and unfair competition from low-quality, cheap products from third countries. i agree that we must maintain the lines of the previous programmes and i support the new proposals by the rapporteur on measures to support honey analysis laboratories and other appropriate measures to improve the production and marketing of honey and beekeeping products.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative of introducing a visa information system (vis) in the field of justice and home affairs, which would remove key areas of competence from the member states. i support the rejection of this initiative by the commission, partly because the proposal does not contain a definition of the system and its application, 'including the categories of data to be included in the system, the purpose of their inclusion and the criteria for their selection, rules on the content of vis records, the right of access of public authorities to enter, update and consult data and rules on the protection of personal data and control thereof'. that is why i have voted as i have.
in writing. - (pt) i fully support carlos coelho's reasoning for rejecting the commission's proposal, which is meaningless and lacks any substance. i voted against the motion.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover all rail transport services, including those in the public transport sector, and to extend the scope of the directive to all rail transport services. this is a natural consequence of the commission's initiative of 24 january 2002 to accelerate the liberalisation of rail transport without first taking into account the experience already gained from the united kingdom in particular. here, public services and rail safety are impaired because private companies seek only to maximise profits for themselves without meeting their obligations to maintain rail infrastructure and equipment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) rail transport has not developed to the same extent as other forms of transport. it has in fact suffered a considerable decline - particularly in the freight sector - in favour of competing sectors. the first package to revive the railway sector dates from 2001. now comes the second package and the commission continues its course towards liberalisation. the rapporteur asked us to approve the joint text after the conciliation committee had reached agreement by balancing the divergent positions of the commission and parliament through the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism on the timetable for opening up the market for goods, which is the main point of disagreement. the only aspect i could have objected to was the suppression of safety regulations, but this area is given special attention in another proposal for a directive. the proposed measures will make it possible to revive rail transport. i am convinced of this and have long been saying that a revival of both the passenger and transport sectors in particular will be of vital importance for the development of europe, so i support this whole package of measures. we are also witnessing a serious crisis at bombardier, which wants to close its factories in europe. thus, there is a need for major investment in the entire railway industry.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this initiative is part of the package on the liberalisation of rail transport. i must stress that the objective of this directive, as stated in article 1, is to open up the railway network to competition and to harmonize safety regulations in the various member states. better regulation and greater safety are fundamental issues which, of course, deserve our full support, but i cannot see how they can be subordinated to the 'market' and how the introduction of higher safety standards can be subordinated to non-distortion of competition. the commission's control role in this area is also strengthened and it is given specific powers to postpone the application of a national safety standard for up to six months. i have therefore voted against the initiative.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in this second proposal for a directive, which forms part of the second railway package aimed at boosting the sector, the commission is tackling safety issues which have always been at the heart of eu policies. in view of the considerable differences between the member states, it has been decided to harmonise safety provisions, which will greatly contribute to raising and developing the level of safety in the railway industry. i should like to emphasize the proposal by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism to introduce a safety certificate for railway companies and infrastructure managers. the member states have agreed to extend the commission's powers in this area to facilitate the implementation of eu rules, while not excluding the possibility of enforcing stricter national legislation. the importance of staff training measures for the development of rail transport has also been strengthened. i recognize that this is an important step in the creation of a european railway system which must be safe first and foremost. i agree with the report and voted for it.
in writing. - (pt) this is an integral part of the so-called railway package drawn up by the commission, which is intended to stimulate the development of this particular transport sector. important proposals are being made, such as those to improve investment by the various member states and to ensure the use of technical specifications for the interoperability of both high-speed and conventional networks through increased financial support and by equipping trains with a control device. the proposal also provides for a new institutional strategy through the creation of a european railway agency as a system supervisor and a common supervisory authority to manage and guarantee safety in the sector. if the objectives of the directive are achieved, it will lead to a high level of technical harmonisation, as is indicated in the agreement agreed. the outcome of the conciliation procedure is very satisfactory to the european parliament and i very much welcome the adoption of this joint text at third reading with a view to promoting the implementation of interoperability in the various aspects of the railway sector.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report supports the draft regulation establishing a european railway agency, which is another fundamental step towards the commission's objective of giving new life to the european railway industry at both freight and passenger level. the main purpose of the agency is to ensure constant harmonisation and coordination for railway staff and to publish recommendations and opinions to the commission. its task does not include legislative powers, nor does it have regulatory or independent control powers - it will only have an advisory, proposing and safety oversight role. the agreement in question is another pillar of the second railway package. i also agreed with the other texts in this package and have always been in favour of the idea that the future of europe requires major developments in this sector, mainly because it is an excellent initiative for the already saturated road sector, so i voted in favour of it. the recovery of the railways must be a high priority in the eu.
in writing. - i support the extension of council regulation (ec) no 975/1999 - which supports the eu's human rights activities in the framework of development cooperation - to take account of the financial perspective applicable for 2006, while adapting it technically to the new financial regulation. i am particularly in favour of the proposal that the european parliament, the council and the commission take measures to create specific institutional mechanisms to allow for greater involvement of civil society and non-governmental organisations whose main task is to promote democracy and human rights. on the other hand, i am concerned about certain details which suggest the great difficulties that small and mediumsized civil society organisations will encounter in getting their grant applications approved - despite the micro-project scheme - because of complicated administrative procedures. the eu is, as we know, the world's largest provider of development aid, and it is creating visible results and real expectations for many people who are fighting courageously and persistently for and hoping for the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in their countries.
in the light of the recent events in the united kingdom, the commission has decided to propose to the council that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the european capital of culture for the period 2005-2019. the aim is to give new life and dynamism to the european capital of culture selection procedure and to promote competition at european level by encouraging more cities to be nominated each year. the aim is to ensure that the initiative is a success.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the proposal for a regulation should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 149 of the treaty. however, i believe that the proposal for the 'two-headed cultural capitals' could prove to be inappropriate because it might diminish public interest in these events. i agree with the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport that in the present situation there is a serious danger that interest in this procedure will rapidly decline and jeopardise its future. i therefore believe that the condition for success is that attention is not spread by diversifying events and that the procedure is given new life and dynamism by reintroducing competition at european level and encouraging more cities to apply each year. it is the jury, as judge and as a stimulus, which, through its demands and advice, must promote the integration of a genuinely european dimension into the projects of the applicant cities. i therefore believe that the rapporteur's amendments to the commission's proposal are entirely justified, as the unanimous adoption of the report in committee shows. i voted for it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the purpose of this proposal is to bring together in a single framework, known as europass, various initiatives designed to 'help' workers to present their skills and experience in a way that is understandable to employers and to training and vocational training institutions in other member states. the 'european cv', known as the 'europass', may include other documents such as:- a mobilipass: containing information on a specific european training course in a common european format and issued to students/trainees who have completed part of their training in another member state;- a diploma supplement: attached to a higher education diploma to help third parties understand the meaning of the diploma;- a vocational qualification certificate supplement: attached to a vocational qualification certificate to help third parties understand the meaning of the diploma;- a european language portfolio: a list of linguistic and cultural skills. all these documents already exist on the basis of cooperation between the council of europe and/or unesco. the only document which the commission proposes to change fundamentally is the mobilipass, which should cover all forms of training and not just vocational training. the question is what is the idea behind the development of these instruments: is the idea to add value to the human resources of a country, or is it to enable countries which are more economically developed to exploit workers and their mobility?
in writing. - (pt) the this proposal is very important for the mobility of the workforce. it aims to create a community framework to achieve transparency in qualifications and competences by creating a portfolio of coherent personal documents, known as europass, which citizens can use on a voluntary basis to better explain and present their qualifications and competences across europe. the commission proposes that funding for 2005 and 2006 (which is a development phase) be provided in the form of annual co-financed grants to the national europass offices (up to 50% of total expenditure), whereby europass activities are to be treated as a horizontal measure in the new generation of community programmes for education and training. like the rapporteur, i support the extension of the europass training framework to cover the whole field of education and training. i voted for the report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. these enterprises, which cover a wide range of sectors, are therefore vital for job creation and local and regional development, but they face certain difficulties, such as access to finance, which require an immediate solution. we must therefore have a policy with appropriate support mechanisms directed at this broad sector. the growth and jobs initiative (1998-2000), despite its lack of funding and publicity, aimed to promote job creation through support for smes. it was replaced by the initiative and entrepreneurship programme (2001-05), which introduced mechanisms to provide guarantees and access to risk capital, such as the joint european venture (jev) programme, which is now being phased out, putting at risk €42 million in unused funds. the programmes targeting smes must be increased in funding but their objectives must also be changed: they must promote job creation, support the formation of associations, support research and vocational training, provide guarantees for all the critical stages in starting up a business, improve the geographical distribution of aid (which is mainly concentrated in the central countries of the eu) and support not only high-tech companies but also traditional and craft enterprises.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. one of the amendments tabled, which the rapporteur supports, is to phase out the joint european venture (jev) programme, which aims to promote traditional joint ventures. this measure is justified because it is impossible to use the remaining budget for projects involving acceding and candidate countries and because a simplification instead of deactivating the project would mean that the unused budgetary commitments of approximately eur 42 million were lost. the commission will also improve the coverage of research activities by the etf start-up scheme to improve access to risk capital for new innovative smes. the rapporteur suggests that, in addition to the start-up and initial phase aid proposed by the commission, better coverage should be provided for other stages in the life of a new enterprise and he also stresses the importance of improving the geographical spread for the use of the remaining facilities. the proposal is improved by the rapporteur's contribution, and that is why i voted for it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the aim of the proposal is to continue the econtent programme on digital content. the aim of the new econtentplus programme is to improve the accessibility, usability and commercial exploitation of digital content in the eu in order to facilitate the production and dissemination of information and knowledge in areas of public interest at community level. the programme will have eur 163 million available for the period 2005-08, and a specific aspect of the programme will be to improve the quality of digital content. i have no objection to the promotion of tools, processes and services for the design, development, access and distribution of digital content or to the emphasis on multilingual aspects of cultural, educational and scientific content. but i have reservations about exploitation, particularly the re-use of public sector information, or the promotion of crossborder services - a pan-european market for digital content which must not be to the detriment of access for all to public sector information or limit the benefits of development in the sector, neither for consumers nor for the main actors. ensure that the dynamism and innovation of the digital content sector is maintained. nevertheless, the programme deserves our support, particularly because of its objective of promoting linguistic and cultural diversity. the amendments tabled by parliament do not improve or clarify the commission's proposal.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the agreement with pakistan includes measures for a 15% increase in the quota for textiles and clothing and under the generalised system of preferences (gps) zero duty on eu imports of clothing between 2002 and 2004. in an earlier question to the commission on the existence of studies on the impact of this agreement on the textile and clothing industry in the eu, for example in portugal, the commissioner said - to avoid having to say that there were no such studies - that it 'probably would not have any significant significance'. analysis of eu exports to pakistan and pakistan's exports to the eu show that the textile and clothing industry - of which portugal is a producer - is one of the bargaining chips that allows pakistan to import chemical products, machinery and transport equipment and hard white goods from the most industrialized countries in the eu. i would also say that i am opposed to the agreement requiring, among other things, that pakistan commit itself to concluding agreements on the return of pakistani nationals who are illegally in the eu. this measure aims to control illegal immigration by means of coercive measures such as return.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) with the events of 11 september 2001 in fresh memory, we must not forget the active role played by pakistan in the fight against terrorism. pakistan has since proved to be a strong ally of the international community, particularly in the fight against the taliban and al-qaeda. following pakistan's excellent contribution, the eu resumed the political dialogue in november 2001. the areas of cooperation between pakistan and the eu in this agreement are extremely varied. i would like to emphasize the commitments to combat discrimination and violence, develop democracy, strengthen trade and promote economic cooperation. it should be stressed, however, that although human rights are regarded as a universal objective, respect for them must not be a precondition or condition for relations between states. that is certainly the position of the rapporteur when he calls for this agreement to be concluded. that is why i voted for it.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) although it is said that employment is one of europe's ambitions, the primacy of monetary policies and in particular the stability pact unfortunately prevents us from giving priority to jobs. the opposite is true: all we have are declarations of intent to please the public. where in the world are the practical measures to achieve full employment, improve the quality and productivity of work and strengthen social cohesion and integration? unemployment is still rising in the eu - by 1.5 million between 2002 and 2003. the number of multinational companies moving out continues to rise. this is a phenomenon which has already led to the loss of thousands of jobs in portugal. poverty and social exclusion are rising steadily. social inequalities are increasing due to the liberalisation and privatisation that have intensified since the adoption of the lisbon strategy, particularly in portugal. we could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of employment, the commission has decided to propose a new programme of action to promote the employment of women and men in the european union. the increase in unemployment in europe is very disappointing. the european citizens in general, and the portuguese in particular, are demanding that the eu act more decisively, and the credibility of the process depends on the acceleration of reforms in the member states. it is essential that we improve the monitoring of national action (...). the commission has also recognized that there is a growing need to make the whole european project more credible and to act more decisively. priority should be given to helping young people enter the labour market and get their first job, to punishing fraud arising from migration, to preparing for technological and economic changes by exploiting new areas of work in information technology, to taking practical steps to promote and encourage vocational training courses - including lifelong learning - by simplifying procedures for accessing funding and to improving the dissemination of best practice.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted against this report for the following reasons: firstly, i believe that the commission's proposal for a financial framework for 2007-13 is manifestly inadequate to ensure social and economic cohesion in an enlarged eu and to meet our obligations towards the world's least developed countries. secondly, i am opposed to the political objectives of the framework which is already in line with the so-called european constitution and which reinforces federalism, neoliberalism, militarism and the excessive focus of the enlarged union on security. thirdly, this report is ambiguous and the commission's proposal is accepted indirectly. finally, i am not in favour of extending the uk correction mechanism to the remaining net contributors and replacing the current national budgetary contributions with some form of european tax. i therefore regret that our amendments were rejected. i am glad, however, that parliament rejected amendments nos 16, 17 and 18, which sought to limit the average annual community budget to a maximum of 1% of community gdp - in line with the wishes of the signatories of the 'letter of the six' - and to renationalize or rather abolish community regional policy.
in writing. - i voted for it. a multiannual financial framework (from 2007 to 2013 or a minimum period of five years) following the adoption of the financial perspective has undeniably provided financial and political stability for eu action. against this background, the expectations of administrative operators, member states and the public have led to efficiency improvements and more ambitious and significant projects. the commission proposes to achieve three strategic objectives with the forthcoming financial perspective: to improve competitiveness, growth potential and territorial cohesion, to create an area of freedom, security and justice and to develop external relations. these objectives will hopefully not be countered by the top-down approach proposed in the 'letter of the six', which essentially sets an upper limit, unlike the bottom-up approach - identifying policy priorities and assessing needs and amounts required - proposed by the commission. i strongly support the rapporteur's work and i would like to quote a very pointed question she asks: 'is it fair to pretend that the amounts proposed allow for the matching of resources with needs, particularly with regard to the lisbon objectives of growth and employment in an enlarged union?' in this connection, i should like to mention that mr bradbourne's amendments were rejected overwhelmingly - over two thirds voted against - and ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) i agree with the general position of mr hatzidakis' report. i must say, however, that i am disappointed by the treatment of the outermost regions, in particular madeira and the canary islands. a common approach to the outermost regions, as provided for in article 299 (2) of the treaty, is conspicuous by its absence in the commission's proposal. i think it is inappropriate to refer simply to a specific programme to be implemented to deal with the particular difficulties faced by the outermost regions or to introduce a grand voisinage action to facilitate cooperation with their neighbours. these instruments seem to me to be inappropriate because, in the end, there is no point in, for example, a future phasing-out applied to madeira and the canary islands being exactly the same as that applied to continental european regions. where is the special access to the structural funds under article 299 (2) of the treaty? we are aware of the lasting disadvantages affecting the outermost regions. we know how these handicaps hamper their development greatly. we know that the outermost regions are therefore the parts of europe which have the greatest difficulty in taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and the forthcoming enlargement. i would therefore ask the commission to reconsider... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) experience has clearly shown that economic and social cohesion policy can make a significant contribution to the development of a region, provided that the allocation of resources is reflected in high-quality projects. such projects can have a great impact on a region, and fortunately this has been the case in portugal. the committee's unanimous support for this report also reflects the fact that the vast majority of european citizens are in favour of genuine european social cohesion throughout the eu. more specifically, i welcome the confirmation of the principle that it is necessary to maintain a temporary phase-in aid of between 85% and 60% for regions which are no longer covered by objective 1, because they are victims of the so-called statistical effect of the 75% of gdp threshold being lowered as a result of enlargement. i am also pleased that the cohesion fund is maintained as a support mechanism for major projects in the fields of transport and the environment in member states whose gdp is less than 90% of the community average. i am pleased that special attention is being paid to the needs of the outermost regions and those with the most structural problems. finally, i welcome the call for the various procedures to be simplified as much as possible, since these procedures often create major obstacles to the implementation of programmes and projects. i voted for it, of course.
in the case of the european investment bank, the main task is to support, together with the european investment fund, capital investments which promote sustainable development and economic and social cohesion. it finances small businesses (45% of global loans), research, environmental protection and basic infrastructure. these projects are of course linked to the community's regional policy, but the eib also supports the implementation of the neoliberal lisbon strategy. the eib is for the first time presenting to parliament the report of its audit committee, which supplements its annual report, and we welcome this. however, we must examine the doubts raised about the competence of the bank's management and the allegations of lack of transparency within the eib. parliament's control must be strengthened. we therefore welcome the decision to hold a public consultation in autumn 2004 on the eib's activities and policy guidelines. i am dissatisfied that the information published by the eib on its website is presented in only three community languages. in view of the scale of the eib's work, the information on the website should be available in all the official languages of the community.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. fraud and irregularities exceeded eur 6 million, which in some cases is probably just the tip of the iceberg. this case has also highlighted serious problems and irregularities in the working methods and internal monitoring of both the commission and olaf, such as the lack of effective enforcement of the applicable rules. the commissioners directly involved must not get away with this. it is shocking that the commissioner responsible for eurostat has not taken up his political responsibility and that the president of the commission has not asked him to resign. this new case shows, among other things, how easily the commission's service outsourcing can be used in such situations. the very least we can hope for is that the commission will learn from this and tell us how it intends to prevent a repetition of this type of problem in the future.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we are concerned about the increasing concentration of media ownership among an ever-decreasing number of companies. as has been pointed out, the greatest concentration of the audiovisual market in europe is found in italy, where the market is dominated by two players, rai and mediaset. however, criticism of the situation in italy must not be used to divert attention from what is happening in other countries. in portugal, over 100 of the largest national media organisations are in the hands of half a dozen large companies, which is, to say the least, an alarming situation. freedom of expression, access to information and freedom of employment are at stake, and the logic of business is at stake. this reality is reflected in the overall assault of neoliberal policies, in which the control of the media is a weapon. the media is undoubtedly one of the areas where the battle for ideology and class domination is most evident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. - (fr) the since i regret that the request was rejected, i should like to conclude the arguments which were interrupted by the presentation of the request in plenary. some people say that the report falls within the scope of article 7 of the treaty. but if that were the case, we should have acted accordingly, and we have not. others say it is based on the charter of fundamental rights. but even if this was already the case, we have to read article 51, which is retained in the draft constitution, according to which the charter applies only to the european institutions and to the member states in the case of national action programmes implementing community law. but that is not the case. finally, the report was not produced to solve an italian problem. it is clear to everyone that there is an italian dispute in this area, but we must refrain from interfering in national conflicts, whether they arise in italy or in any other member state. the resolution is a dangerous attempt to usurp powers that are not ours. it hurts us all. it is unjust and it is a threat. and we must be very clear that an injustice committed against someone - in this case italy and other named member states - is always a threat hanging over our heads. a threat to democracy and a threat to the rule of law.
in writing. - (pt) the this report deserves our full attention and represents a serious breach of the law, as i made clear after the vote in committee and in plenary when i proposed that the matter be rejected and referred back to committee. i was shocked by the flagrant violation of eu law by the left-wing dictatorship of the majority. i did not take part in the vote in accordance with the outcome of the discussions between the union for a europe of nations group and the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats. this situation has had a very complicated history, which began last summer. since last summer, the european left/nordic green left group has claimed to have used the procedure of article 7 (1) of the treaty as a means of demonstrating alleged violations of freedom of expression and information in italy. but they did not do so at all, and such an attitude is scandalous in any case. this is in fact a purely political attack on the italian government and it is therefore shocking that parliament has been hijacked for this purpose. the subsidiarity principle has also been clearly violated. we cannot allow parliament to be used for purely political attacks or to impose its will on sovereign states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the resolution on the situation of human rights and democracy in pakistan which we voted on today must be seen in the context of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of pakistan on partnership and development. voting in favour therefore means first and foremost being fully aware of the serious violations of human rights and democracy taking place in pakistan and therefore we should exert all the pressure we can and must exert to reverse this trend. the resolution also enabled people who are fighting for human rights and democracy to vote in favour of the signing of the agreement. since human rights and democracy are two of the main objectives of the european union - with which i fully agree - they must also be seen as such: as objectives and not as conditions for relations between countries. the pragmatic context of international relations would justify such a premise, but the countries involved would be isolated and thus unable to persuade other countries to achieve these objectives. that explains why i voted the way i did.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this decision reflects the contradictions in the current relations between the various countries of the eu and the united states. the resolution confirms the desire to come to an understanding with the united states and to make common cause in order to dominate the world by failing to stress the seriousness of the international situation - the most glaring examples being the unacceptable military occupation of iraq and the stalemate in palestine - and by criticizing the united states only mildly. the need for 'well-balanced cooperation', 'balancing the workload', 'burden-sharing', the establishment of a 'joint action plan' with common priorities (e.g. the un, the middle east, terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, china, russia and the international criminal court), the completion of the 'transatlantic market by 2015', the strengthening of nato and the militarisation of the eu as its 'european pillar', the development of transatlantic defence companies and markets, etc. is again underlined. it is significant that the majority of this parliament, at a time when the spanish government has decided to withdraw its forces from iraq, chooses not to take a position. i can understand that. at a time when the major powers are trying to settle their differences by legitimising the occupation of iraq with a un resolution, the resistance of the iraqi people to the occupying forces and the clearly expressed will of the spanish people are hindering the settlement of these differences.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) while i agree with many of the points made in this annual report, i must stress that i believe it is being used once again as a political tool to protect countries considered to be 'friends' while criticizing others that the us or the eu designate as targets - a clear example of double standards. the report states that parliament is 'deeply concerned by the continuing conflict between palestine and israel'. although the israeli government and the palestinian people are held to be almost equally responsible - a position which i strongly oppose - the murders committed by israel and the ongoing israeli settlement activities, which involve allowing settlers to move illegally into the occupied territories, are condemned. there is a mild criticism of the continued expropriation of land for the construction of the so-called security fence. this is the very least we can do, given that the israeli government, with the complicity and support of the united states, is denying the most basic rights to the palestinian people, who are subjected to very brutal violence. the report does not say a word about the brutal attack and occupation of iraq by the united states.
in writing. - (pt) the this is a comprehensive annual report covering a number of subjects. it should be analysed carefully. the original version of the report focused on only three areas and contained some provisions which were completely irrelevant, particularly in relation to terrorism and so-called reproductive health. the rapporteur accepted a large number of amendments which led to this less unbalanced version. the various situations highlighted in the 'new' report are, however, almost all taken out of context. the document contains issues that do not fall within the traditional definition of 'human rights' - in fact, they go far beyond the original meaning. i voted against the report. i object to the way in which the report goes far beyond its scope. i cannot allow the eu to use this method - in its attempt to bring all other types of rights permanently under the umbrella of 'human rights' - to find an easy way to expand its possibilities for action. it is wrong for the eu to try to extend its powers by deliberately blurring definitions, which in turn makes it more difficult to ensure the effective protection of fundamental human rights. what we are witnessing is a clever move that will subtly pave the way for the eu to consider all sorts of different areas as 'human rights' and to intervene in all the areas it wants to.
in writing. - i am shocked by the decision of the ankara state security court upholding the 15 year prison sentences first handed down in 1994 to leyla zana, hatip dicle, orhan dogan and selim sadak, turkish members of parliament of kurdish origin representing the democracy party (dep), for their activities in support of the fundamental rights of the kurdish population. it was a scandalous decision that ended a new trial begun on 28 march 2003, which was the result of a concerted international campaign to free leyla zana and her colleagues. the new trial was prompted by the fact that the european court of human rights in strasbourg, in its 2001 judgment, found that the state security court had not been independent and impartial and that the rights of the defence had been violated, which was repeated in this second trial. the eu is called upon to condemn the decision and to demand the release of leyla zana, hatip dicle, orhan dogan and selim sadak. the decision reflects the current situation in turkey, a country which wants to join the european union but which has thousands of political prisoners, where the kurdish population is denied the most basic rights and which continues its military occupation of part of cyprus.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we voted against this report because parliament supports the monetary and budgetary orthodoxy - the neoliberal policies - in the eu's economic policy guidelines. the report continues to stress the structural reforms of the lisbon strategy, such as measures to make the labour market more flexible, i.e. to make workers more adaptable and to make the provisions of employment contracts more flexible, which have led to greater uncertainty in employment conditions. but that's not all. the report paves the way for the private sector to enter the pension and health sector at a time when more than 1.5 million workers in the eu have joined the ranks of the unemployed since 2001, when more and more businesses are closing down and others are moving out, and when the long-promised recovery is not coming. the right approach would be a policy of economic regeneration that could boost production and employment with the aim of promoting economic growth, employment and social and economic cohesion. the stability pact and the process of liberalisation and privatisation must be suspended immediately, we must combat the relocation of companies, promote productive investment and stop encouraging risky employment contracts such as short-term contracts. we were therefore very unhappy that our proposal was not included in the final decision.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my and our group's satisfaction that it has been possible for four political groups to come together on a compromise resolution, a resolution which is not a resolution against cuba but a resolution in favour of cuba, a resolution in favour of the cuban people and against a tyrannical regime. i would like to mention two dates to make it clear what is at stake: on 1 may, ten new member states will be joining this parliament, our common house of democracy. eight of these ten member states were under communist tyrannies and dictatorships ten years ago. and after the fall of the wall, it was possible for them to make a democratic evolution, to share the same foundation, the rule of law, democracy and freedom and to access our common coexistence. that is what we would like to see happen to cuba. next sunday, 25 april, my country, portugal, will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the 25th of april, a democratic revolution that was soon imprisoned by the far left and the communists who wanted to make portugal, as it was then called, 'the cuba of europe'. there were many struggles in portugal in 1974 and 1975 so that we could assert ourselves as a free and democratic country and not be the 'cuba of europe'. now, what we want now is for cuba to be the "portugal of the caribbean", for the nights that made our country happy to shine in cuba, for us to share the joy, the color and the warmth of cuban culture, a culture that we appreciate very much, that we value very much and that we want to see smiling and growing in freedom. that's what's at stake. the double standards have been mentioned here, and what i regret is the lack of solidarity on the part of some colleagues with the terrible suffering in cuba, with the sentences imposed a year ago, of twenty years and more in prison for crimes of opinion. it's awful! and if you don't want double stantards, then vote correctly, because otherwise the accusation falls on the head of the one who utters it. cuba is - as reporters without borders recently revealed here in parliament - at the moment the largest prison for journalists in the world. twenty-seven journalists have been detained in cuba since march, and three were already in detention. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in cuba and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. finally, two final words in support of initiatives which are racing to award the nobel peace prize to cuban democrats, whether it is rivero castañeda, a great writer and poet who is detained and imprisoned, or oswaldo payá, to whom we have already awarded the 2002 sakharov prize, and for us to continue unwaveringly, to continue firmly to pursue the sakharov initiative until, as we have asked and as is his right, oswaldo payá can come here to speak to us.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, i believe that we are facing a resolution from this house which is very timely and which attacks what is perhaps the greatest human rights problem we are facing at the beginning of the 21st century. i do not think that we are dealing with an extremely delicate situation in nigeria alone. i think that what we are witnessing there is also happening elsewhere, for example in sudan, or even in iraq, in a way that has not been sufficiently communicated to public opinion. in the case of iraq, the responsibility is much greater because it is with the condescension of the armed forces of the european union countries, in particular the british forces on the ground, that a fanatical sharia regime is gradually being installed in the country, especially from the south, and especially in basra, which persecutes christians, imposes a ban on alcoholic beverages, western clothing and the wearing of the veil. the problem of the situation in nigeria is islamic fanaticism, that is really the problem, more than the existence in the same country of people of different ethnicities or beliefs, which also occurs in almost all latitudes of our globe and is due to various historical situations. this problem must be fought and we cannot continue to play it down in the face of immediate commercial interests and our oil diplomacy. that seems to me to be the fundamental message we must send to the commission and the council.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i agree with the overall message of this report, which notes with concern that the economic downturn in the region is affecting women more than men and that the feminization of poverty is growing rapidly. i would like to stress that poverty and unemployment, together with a strong patriarchal tradition, are the main causes of prostitution, trafficking in women and violence against women. the human resources of women, which are relatively large due to their generally high level of education, are not sufficiently exploited in the context of the economic, social and cultural development of the region as a result of discrimination and prejudice. the governments of south-east europe must therefore, in the face of the growing religious fundamentalism and the renaissance of patriarchy in their societies, guarantee fundamental freedoms, respect for human rights and freedom of thought, conscience and religion. they must also ensure that the autonomy of the individual is not undermined in the name of tradition and that women's rights and the principle of equality between the sexes are not trampled underfoot. i note with concern that women's participation in politics in most countries of south-eastern europe is consistently below 20%, which, compared to the other european regions, is the highest exclusion of women from ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the human rights violations in the western balkans are extremely worrying and should therefore be condemned. as mrs karamanou rightly points out, there are problems which do not concern women alone. i agree that women's rights deserve special attention, but there are other problems which are so extensive that they give rise to greater concern. the rapporteur acknowledges that there has been a positive development in the situation of women. let us not forget that some of these countries have only recently become independent and have gone through periods of great instability and in some cases even war. this region is made up of many different ethnic and cultural groups. major changes therefore do not occur overnight. in the light of the above, i have neither voted for nor against the motion for a resolution. i believe that the eu should redouble its efforts to promote development in these countries and not focus on the situation of any one group. in this way we will not only achieve a positive development for women but also - and this is even more important - a reduction in the many problems of the western balkans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. we are particularly concerned about the existence of large minefields which claim thousands of victims - mainly children - and prevent people from returning to their homes, cultivating their land and starting a new life after a military conflict. this situation must end. we should mobilise the resources needed as quickly and efficiently as possible to clear mine areas, assist in the social and economic rehabilitation of the victims and destroy stockpiles of antipersonnel mines. it is also shocking that the united states, the country leading the arms race and carrying out the majority of military interventions, has announced that it will not sign the ottawa convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines and that it has decided to retain its 8.8 million so-called intelligent anti-personnel mines (equipped with self-destruct mechanisms). the united states has also stated that it will not stop using conventional antipersonnel and anti-tank mines until after 2010, or in other words, four years after the previously agreed deadline.
the insistence of the majority of the european parliament on the adoption of the said european constitution is unacceptable. as we have repeatedly pointed out, this is an attempt to deepen the capitalist integration of the european union, which clearly reinforces the federal nature of the community institutions and the dominance of the great powers in the decision-making process, including their unacceptable primacy over national constitutions, and lays the institutional foundations for militarization, with the creation of a european armaments agency, on the way to building a political-military bloc in conjunction with nato. it is a project that deserves our utmost criticism and total opposition also because of the way in which it tries to restrict the paths of the future of europe, by imposing neoliberalism as the only solution, by establishing the primacy of competition as the basic orientation, by forcing struggles to defend derogations with regard to public services, instead of giving them full priority as a fundamental issue to ensure the realization of human rights, economic and social cohesion and a europe of solidarity. we will continue to push for an alternative that respects the inalienable right of the people of each member state to decide their own future, that respects national constitutions, that advocates respect for the principle of sovereign and equal states, that supports the holding of a referendum in portugal before the ratification of a draft constitution.
in writing. - (pt) it is regrettable that the left in this parliament continues to delay the adoption of the agreement between the european community and the united states on the processing and transfer of personal data (pnr) on the basis of the basis negotiated by the commission, which the commission has explained and elaborated on several occasions, both in the parliamentary committee and in the plenary, in particular at the last sitting. the left is wrong when it continues to create a conflict between security and freedom and says that it prefers freedom to security. it forgets that there is no freedom without security. it shows contempt for the rule of law, both in the eu and in the us. and it forgets, in particular, that because terrorism is a terrible threat throughout the world, it is absolutely necessary to ensure the safety and freedom of our citizens and to work closely with the states that are friends and allies. i hope that in the forthcoming european elections the citizens will think of their freedom and security when they vote, and in so doing punish the left who have no idea what is going on.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) my rejection of the motion of censure does not mean that i support the commission or that i am unaware of the seriousness of the situation. the uen group has tried several times to clarify the eurostat case and we are maintaining this line. on the other hand, i have repeatedly criticised the president of the commission, romano prodi, for abandoning the independent stance he should always have taken after november 2003 and for openly meddling in italian politics and european party politics. for that reason alone, the european parliament should give the president, and with him the commission, a vote of no confidence. it would be quite wrong, however, to vote for a motion of censure at a time when the electoral period is about to end, when the commission's mandate is also about to expire and when there are more commissioners coming and going. the procedure for the vote of no confidence has also been seriously affected by these circumstances. i therefore do not think that a vote of no confidence will have any political significance. it would be completely inappropriate and inconsistent, and the public would not be able to understand it at all.
mr president, in the time of testimonies and wills, i shall take advantage of the minutes of my last speech in this term of office to try to do so on this subject. time is scarce, but the exercise is worth it. above all, it is worthwhile to prevent the so-called economic and social model from being a phrase without content, a shell that has become demagogy, a shell from which the living matter is being drained. principles and values are this living matter and must be translated into practice. they are conquests and not gifts, they are conquests that are defended and not gifts that are thanked and asked for extension by resisting their slow and total destruction. and for the exercise if contained in time i resort to portugal: for decades we have been outside the framework of what is called the european model. thirty years ago, with april 25th, we won social security, pensions, unemployment insurance, minimum wage; we won and the right to health and education was constitutionalised; work on land, at sea, in factories, in the service sector was valued; the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community, which will be submitted to the council in the near future. then, especially after 1986, nominal convergence was favoured, accompanied by real divergence and asymmetry at social and regional levels. the aim of economic and social cohesion is not to be what it should be, without stupid budgetary criteria, without accounting for the sacrifices of donors and the benefits of those who receive them, but to promote cooperation, the transfer of resources, with mutual respect and for the benefit of all. it is a moment of enlargement of profound significance, which we welcome as a rapprochement of european peoples and cultures. but that will not be the case if the influence of the experiences of the member states is abused, with all the positive and negative aspects of the experience, so that the values and principles which make up the model can exist and persist. yes, because it was not just the beveridge plan, it was also a competition that led to the consecration of principles and values that humanized the use of the workforce. the reference made yesterday to reagan and thatcher, emblematic figures of neoliberalism with no rules but those of the market, who do everything to destroy these principles and values, is also significant. on this side of the house i welcome the enlarged europe and the concept of neighbourhood, in the name of a living european model and not a figure of decorative rhetoric, which will be the way forward as long as it strengthens the richness of institutionally, economically, socially and culturally diversified situations and not the ideological curtain of a single paradigm, of a single neoliberal, federal, militarized constitution, under the pretext of a spectrum of security threats. i shall end as i began, mr president, because the three minutes are running out. the principles and values of a new path are, from here on, those of genuine solidarity, peace, mutual respect, of a democracy which is not limited to the act of voting but which is completed by the real participation of citizens, workers and peoples.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has entered a new historical phase with a total population of over 450 million. our union, now enlarged to 25 countries, has greater political, geographical and economic weight. we now share a common interest, not only in the area of the economy and the internal market, but also in responsibilities for threats to stability and security that are not confined to borders. this is the case with terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking and human trafficking. the issue of terrorism is a matter of grave concern and should be given top priority. it is a threat to security, to our democracies and to the foundations of our civilization, namely respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the european union must do everything possible to protect its citizens, to strengthen external border controls and the security of travel documents, including biometric data and the creation of visa systems and sis ii (schengen information system). but i would like to stress once again that this reinforcement of security must always respect the other two components of our european space, which are freedom and justice. the 1st of may also marked a major change in the area of justice and home affairs. a new institutional framework will now apply: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i hope that the strengthening of parliament's role will lead to greater effectiveness in the face of the successive delays in the council's responsibility, which have already been pointed out here by several people, including mr christian ulrik von boetticher. it is right to congratulate mr antónio vitorino, who is present here, on his meritorious work in this area and on the spirit of collaboration which he has always shown with the european parliament. i hope that the recognition of the excellent work he has done here will help him to assume greater responsibility in our community europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the election results and the high abstention rate in the recent european parliament elections have shown that there is a huge dissatisfaction and distance from community policies and the integration paths enshrined in the european constitution. it is unacceptable to insist on pursuing a policy of indifference to the worsening economic and social situation, blind to high levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and growing social inequalities, deaf to the protests of workers threatened by the relocations and restructuring of multinational companies. we cannot ignore the situation in the middle east, iraq and palestine, the consequences of an absurd, illegal and unjust war, or maintain a supportive attitude towards the us imperialism of the bush administration, or a dubious attitude towards sharon and his state terrorism. we cannot accept that the candidate for president of the european commission, dr durão barroso, will announce more of the same, even though we have ten more countries with a difficult economic and social situation, demanding priorities for social issues, a thorough review of economic and social policies, special attention to the new financial perspectives and their significant strengthening. the recipe he proposes to us is still the lisbon strategy, but the only decisions that have had a positive response have been liberalisation and privatisation. we cannot accept that, in the context of so-called competitiveness, emphasis should be placed on the flexibility and precariousness of work, on reducing wage costs and wage moderation, on attacking public services, that is, on the neoliberal agenda of the economic and financial groups, instead of concern ing oneself with living and working conditions, sustainable development, greater economic, social and territorial cohesion, quality employment with rights, the relaunching of public and social investment, particularly in railways, health, the environment, education and research. this implies a review of economic and monetary policies, an end to liberalisation, a review of the stability pact, without which poverty cannot be combated, social inclusion and a high standard of living for the whole population cannot be guaranteed, which implies a review of the european commission's mandate in the world trade organisation to defend fair trade, food sovereignty, european industry and employment in particularly vulnerable areas, in particular sensitive traditional sectors such as the textile, glass, mining and shipping sectors, which requires the dignity of those who work, measures to promote equal rights and opportunities, and putting welfare, social progress, the deepening of democracy, cooperation and peace at the centre of community policy decisions. that is why we shall vote against it tomorrow, which is also a vote against the policies you are proposing here.
mr durão barroso, as in other speeches you have made in this parliament, your message today is one of new hope. in his speech, he managed to address issues such as terrorism, environmental degradation, population ageing, regional and social asymmetries, the problem of persistent unemployment, the distance of populations from the european project, issues relating to the adoption of the constitutional treaty and the lisbon strategy. he also spoke, by omission, of the anaemia of the common foreign and security policy and was able to point out a serious problem we are going to have to face, namely the heterogeneity and complexity of a europe of 25 and soon of 27 or 28. it is in this expectation that it is essential to create the idea that it is possible in the face of all these challenges to create consensus, to establish dialogues, to build bridges and to do so without dogmatism, without prejudice, opening up to everyone, rich and poor, large and small, new and old, the possibility of helping us define parameters and objectives relevant to europe. i will simply say that we need a delors-style commission, a commission with leadership, an ambitious commission, but also an effective commission. dr. barroso, history does not pray for the weak. he never prayed. i know your qualities, i know your abilities, i know your determination, your good sense and your moderation. i am sure that your presidency will open a new cycle in the life of europe and a new complicity between parliament and the commission which is essential if europe is to go forward, to build itself up and to assert itself. i would therefore like to ask you a question, and i would like you to tell us in more detail what your ideas are for the relationship between a strong commission and a european parliament which we also want to be ever stronger.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barroso, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barroso, for his excellent report. obviously, your personal qualities are not in question. i know him well enough to know that he has the qualities to be president of the european commission and i have the independence to say so with all frankness. nor is there any question of the satisfaction we get from seeing a fellow citizen in that position. firstly, because other portuguese people, such as commissioner antónio vitorino, could be in that position, and secondly, because it is our duty, yours and ours in this parliament, to represent the common interest of europeans. what is at stake here and now is your political programme for europe, and let us be clear about this: we had three fundamental and profound differences with you as prime minister of portugal: firstly, the war in iraq; secondly, the revision of the stability and growth pact; and thirdly, the devaluation of the social dimension of the lisbon agenda. i therefore ask you very directly how your programme as president of the commission differs in these three respects from your practice as prime minister in such a way as to justify our making a different assessment of your programme from that which we made of your term as prime minister.
i ask you, which do you prefer to believe, the promise of an independent relationship with the united states or the fact that the candidate has been in the photograph of the chiefs who decided the war in the azores? the importance you placed on social, environmental and cultural issues yesterday or the recognition that, as prime minister, the important was never the urgent? in the praise of the community method or in the fact that governments, including london, bonn and madrid, have issued precise voting instructions to their members? in two hours we shall see, we shall see who wants to explain to their voters that democracy is the regime where those who lose elections in their own country can win them in strasbourg. we'll see if the fine words or the courage of responsibility win out.
ladies and gentlemen, the president-elect of the european commission, mr barroso. i wish you luck. a success for you will be a success for europe and we need and want a lot of success for the europe that we are. grahm watson was happy yesterday when he evoked the metaphor of the airplane "we look into the cockpit and we don't want to find a pilot absent or confused, weak and dazed". we look at you, we hear you asking to be invested in this parliament and we have confidence in the steadfastness and the direction of this pilot. you told us you want an independent commission. this parliament needs such a speaker. he told us he wanted a europe of solidarity. those of us who subscribe to the european project know that this is an indispensable condition. there is no future for the european project without strengthening the identity of a common project, without emphasizing the sense of belonging and without a clear and effective policy of economic and social cohesion. he told us that he wanted a europe which was more than a single market, which was the europe of the citizens. it is also this europe that we want to help build, a europe which does not exhaust itself in its economic dimension, a europe of the citizens, a europe of the people. we were sensitive to what you said yesterday in your speech on unemployment, job creation, combating inequalities and the question of security. i know you, i bear witness to your humanist culture and your attachment to the values of the rule of law, but it will be useful to point out that we live in times of uncertainty in which people are crying out for, well, more security. however, exaggeration or security delusions must be avoided. we want more security, but we cannot allow it to stifle freedom. when security ceases to be an instrument for defending and preserving our freedoms, it becomes tyranny. in the implementation of sis2, the second generation of the schengen information system, in border control and in the areas of asylum and migration, but also in judicial and police cooperation, much remains to be done despite the great progress made in the last five years in building an area of freedom, security and justice. mr president-in-office, i was pleased to hear you claim positive complicity with this parliament. in the history of our community, progress has been made when this complicity has been most clearly manifested. it is a fact that you were the prime minister in the history of portuguese democracy who was most present in the parliamentary debates. i would also like him to be the commission president in the history of our institutions who is closest to the european parliament, the house of european democracy. i would like to say one last word about the last election: the increasing abstention is a symptom of a gap which we must combat between the general public and the european project. there is also a lot to be done and a lot of coordination between the commission and parliament. there is an urgent need to change communication, information and pedagogy. i was pleased to hear you say yesterday that our portugal may be geographically peripheral but that its heart is in europe. well, europe and this common project must be brought to the hearts of the citizens.
i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and also of the president to the situation of the relocation of multinationals. last year, following the relocation of the multinational c&j clark in portugal, which threw hundreds and hundreds of workers out of work in castelo de paiva and previously in arouca, this parliament adopted a resolution on companies which, after receiving financial support, relocated their companies, as was the case, holding them and the commission responsible for a set of measures which should be taken to stop this situation, to defend the rights of workers and the regions affected and also to demand the repayment of community funds in cases where there has been a breach of their obligations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what i ask, mr president, is that you urge the commission to comply with the european parliament's resolution.
we are again debating the question of forest fires here, as we did last year when, on our own initiative, we debated the consequences of the tragic summer fires which in portugal alone were responsible for the deaths of more than 20 people and for 400 000 hectares of forest burned in almost 5% of our national territory, and which also caused damage of more than one billion euros. unfortunately, we have not learned much from this and this year forest fires have again tragically hit my country, with over 100 000 hectares of forest burnt down, particularly in the algarve mountains, where many families whose income came from the products they extracted from the forest have been left in the greatest poverty. given the importance of preserving the forest heritage because of its environmental, economic, social and cultural importance and the scale of this scourge, not only is european solidarity and assistance indispensable, but serious investment, community investment in prevention, reforestation, research, coordination, particularly in the field of civil protection, and in the financing of means of combat, particularly airborne. we therefore reiterate our proposals and those of the european parliament to strengthen the fire prevention component and the corresponding financial means under the forest focus programme in line with the previous regulation 2158/92. but we know that to solve this problem we must also change the common agricultural policy to combat the human and economic desertification of rural areas which is the main cause of an agroforestry policy which promotes the abandonment of the fields and prevents the economic survival of these forested areas.
i thank you, commissioner, for your statement to the european parliament. it is true that the fires which have been felt this year have not been as tragic as those which occurred last year, but they are still a situation which should concern us all. it is true that in part, at least in my country, portugal, this has been due to the fact that last year some 11% of portuguese forest land was decimated. well, you can't burn what's already burned. the emergency aid which this parliament approved last year has been felt and has helped to strengthen the means which the government has made available for this purpose and has brought to portugal a real expression of the presence of european solidarity at a time when so many portuguese people are suffering. a significant part of europe's forest heritage cannot be destroyed every year with total impunity. beyond its relevance for the whole of europe, the importance of the mediterranean forest for the regional and local economy, for job creation and for the protection of a territory, for biological diversity and for the quality of life makes it a de facto necessity. we know there are environmental causes, linked to climate change and global warming. it is a fact that average temperatures are rising and that days with high temperatures and low humidity levels are rising as well. we also know that in many cases there is a criminal hand at the origin of these tragedies, but in many cases the tragedy of fires and destruction is the result of a lack of prevention and the absence of adequate means of fighting the flames. this parliament, as has already been mentioned by mr hernandez garcia and others, has given an example when it discussed the 'forest focus' and the need to provide means for forest fire prevention. better means are needed both in prevention and in the european coordination of civil protection and cooperation on the use of heavy equipment to which the commissioner referred, and in her intervention. finally, mr president, allow me to make one last reference which we made last year and which we will probably make again whenever these circumstances arise. a reference to the dedication of the firefighters, to the dedication of the people, who with acts of courage, of generosity and even of heroism, prove what we already know, that in the tragedies in which sometimes the worst of man is revealed there are also many people who reveal the best of man.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your intervention and for the solidarity you have shown. the fires this summer have devastated in the specific case of portugal, in addition to last year's catastrophe, more than 100,000 hectares, the algarve being the worst hit area with 40% of the total area burned. we are facing a real environmental, economic and human tragedy that has reached the proportions of a public calamity. that is why there is an urgent need for a debate on preventive measures against fires, with real money, otherwise, in a few generations, there will be nothing left in terms of forests. the mediterranean forest is part of the common heritage of europeans and must therefore be preserved. some of the burned cork was over two hundred years old and most was between one and two hundred years old. this represents a loss of around 80 million euros and takes approximately 100 years to replace. the problem at the moment is that more money is being spent on mitigating the consequences of natural disasters than on preventing them. the capacity to repair damage is not unlimited and prevention requires political courage and coherent regional development. i would ask the commission, in the face of this catastrophe, to present here a reform and reprogramming of the structural funds so that these people, these people, can see on their horizon the possibility of at least rebuilding the economy to leave to their grandchildren.
in writing. i voted in favour, although i remain opposed to the absence of plenary sessions on fridays in the strasbourg weeks. everyone has already realised that the elimination of friday mornings in the middle of the last parliamentary term was only a strategy of agitation and the intentions of colleagues who are generally against strasbourg. but this cut - the experience of three years shows it well - has resulted in a clear detriment to our work and in an even greater overload of agendas which are already very dense, heavy and concentrated. i hope that this aspect will be reviewed in the future and that, for the sake of the functioning of our parliament, the friday morning sessions will be reintroduced.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation by the economic and social committee because i consider that, beyond its merely regimental dimension, it is crucial that the committee should take a position on the important legal instrument which may govern the future of the union in the coming years. in fact, in a european union based on a common market and monetary union, and proclaiming a common citizenship, it is essential to listen to the assembly which gives voice to the interests of the various economic and social groups. employers, workers and representatives of specific activities such as agriculture, crafts, smes and industry, the professions, representatives of consumers, the scientific and educational community, the social economy and families make up the social fabric of our lives. it is therefore essential to know how they interpret matters which directly concern them. i also hope that this consultation will be a way of stimulating, at the grassroots level, in the heart of public opinion, through the various economic and social groups, together with the local and regional authorities and, of course, the political forces, the necessary wide-ranging debate on the new constitutional treaty, with a desirable echo in democratic referendums.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions because i consider that, beyond its merely regimental dimension, it is crucial that the committee of the regions should take a position on the important legal instrument which may govern the future of the union in the coming years. in a european union which favours decision-making at the level closest to the citizen and respects the principle of subsidiarity, it is imperative to listen to the political assembly which gives voice to local and regional authorities. i am aware of the statement by the committee of the regions of 19 march this year, in which the committee expresses its support for the draft constitution and the constitutional process. i would, however, like to know more precisely what your position is on matters which concern you directly. i also hope that this consultation will be a way of stimulating, at the base, in the heart of public opinion, through the regional and local authorities, together with the various economic and social groups and, of course, the political forces, the indispensable wide-ranging debate on the new constitutional treaty, with a desirable echo in democratic referendums.
in writing. the draft amending budget no 7/2004 aims to enter in the 2004 budget the balance of the 2003 financial year, amounting to €5.470 billion, the majority of which is due to under-implementation of expenditure on the structural funds. it is noted that the surplus would have been €10.5 billion in 2003 if €5 billion had not already been cut in amending budget no 6/2003. budget surpluses have been regular since 2000 - €12 billion in 2000, €15 billion in 2001 and €7 billion in 2002 - due to under-implementation of the structural funds. so if money for economic and social cohesion is a spending objective and vital for economic and social cohesion, the questions to be asked are: why is it not being implemented? because of the stability pact? because of a lack of political will? so there would seem to be justification for those who say that there is more money because it is not spent, and the budget should be kept below 1%, the structural funds should be reduced and even the cohesion policy should be renationalized, which is not acceptable. it is no coincidence that the main net contributors are among the worst performers. ... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2004 concerns the revenue side of the budget and contains several elements affecting the level of member states' contributions to the communities' own resources, notably the correction of budgetary imbalances in favour of the united kingdom for 2000 and 2003 - the so-called 'british check'. although the rapporteur has not seen his demands in the report - from approval of the commission's proposals to the creation of a general mechanism for correcting imbalances in own resources - we must nevertheless reaffirm our firm opposition to the demands of the commission and the main net contributors, because one injustice cannot be corrected by another injustice. in practice, the proposals on the table are intended to apply a kind of new 'british cheque' to other net taxpayers, given that the 'british cheque' cannot be cancelled and the other member states will cover them. the correction of imbalances and injustices requires the approximation of per capita effort, taking account in particular of the relative prosperity of each country. the national contribution based on gnp will therefore be the fairest way, although it can be improved, to address the obvious imbalances in budgetary contributions.
mr president, the humanitarian crisis in darfur has political causes. the rebellion of the people of darfur, not for separatist demands, but against the underdevelopment and political and economic marginalization to which khartoum has been voting, which since the 1980s has been inciting inter-ethnic conflict. we are dealing not with a government that is reluctant to take responsibility, but with a dictatorial government that spends over half of the state budget on buying migs and other military equipment and does not invest the oil revenues for the benefit of the sudanese people. it is a regime accustomed to living under sanctions, sophisticated in exploiting the contradictions of the international community, able to mobilize, in its protection in the security council, the countries to which it sells oil or to which it buys arms, such as china and pakistan. it is a government that realizes that there is no political will when permanent members of the security council use words like genocide to label what is happening in darfur and do not act immediately with appropriate means to stop it not just with words. that is why the government of sudan is fulfilling only part of its obligations under resolution 1556, but it is not fulfilling the essential part, which is to end the war it is waging against its people in darfur. the african union is doing work which should be praised and duly supported by the european union. more needs to be done, particularly in terms of its logistical and operational military capabilities and more needs to be done to help coordination between the african union and the united nations, more needs to be done also in rapid support to humanitarian organisations and humanitarian agencies on the ground. the substantial reinforcement of the international presence on the ground is crucial, both through african union ceasefire monitors and their military protectors, and through humanitarian agencies, human rights monitors and also international police, with a clear mandate from the security council to protect civilians at risk. that is what all the refugees and displaced persons with whom the parliamentary delegation has spoken have asked us to do. the european union governments in the security council and outside it have a special responsibility to send a coherent message to the government of sudan which is as weak and rival at heart as it is dictatorial and corrupt. if this parliament, if the european governments think that the situation in darfur 'amounts to genocide', they cannot, at least consistently, refrain from recommending and applying an arms embargo and an oil embargo. this is the only language the sudanese government understands. the european union and the entire international community must demand that the ceasefire be enforced and that the agreement in force be extended to all regions.
council. mr president, last saturday we commemorated the fact that the world suddenly changed three years ago. in this presentation, i would first like to look back and explain the basis for our policy, then address the current situation in the fight against terrorism before going into the work programme of the dutch presidency. i will end with a few words on cooperation with russia. since 11 september 2001, it has become clear that terrorist attacks are closer to us than we wanted to believe. it is a threat that we cannot neglect. we have all seen the horrific terrorist attacks on television. we are witnesses to these attacks and are also jointly responsible for ensuring that they do not happen again. what we have seen, both outside the european union – in jakarta, beslan, iraq, afghanistan and the middle east – and inside the european union – in madrid six months ago – requires action now and in the future. every attack poses new questions which require new answers and pose new challenges that we have to address jointly through concrete action. we need to protect our citizens better. we need to continue to look at our policy instruments in close cooperation with others. there are no quick fixes for terrorism. in the long battle against terrorism, two key words spring to mind: protection and cooperation, as well as the idea of protection through cooperation. on protection, the european union has done a lot in the last three years. we have improved our legislation and widened our policy instruments. we have drawn up and implemented new measures to protect borders, aircraft, etc. we have started to put security first, also at international level. on cooperation, the terrorist attacks have taught us that internal and external security cannot be separated: they are two sides of the same coin. there are two basic reasons for this: firstly, terrorism does not stop at borders and, secondly, terrorism is a global threat: it can happen – and indeed has happened – anywhere in the world. true protection can therefore be realised only through international cooperation. we also have to look carefully at whether our approach matches those of our partner countries in order to create sufficient possibilities for close cooperation. national and international action should be dovetailed for their mutual strengthening. terrorism is an attack not only on our political and economic freedom, but also on our norms and values: liberty, democracy, tolerance and the rule of law, values that we have to defend. terrorism is also not just an attack on western values, it is an attack on universal values which form the foundation for the united nations. the only way to defeat terrorism is to confront it. we must therefore be strong and active to fight this many-headed monster. there might be a temptation to believe that any measure could be used in this fight. but here, we have to be cautious. in our common fight, we should uphold the norms and values that terrorism is seeking to destroy. terrorism to a large extent boils down to security, which is the core of our existence. a new approach to security has been developed, through various processes, with a view to taking more conclusive action against terrorists and preventing new attacks. the un is at the core. un security council resolution 1373 has forced countries to improve their policies on terrorism, not only in word but also in deed, not only by improving old legislation or by drafting new legislation but also by implementing it. the resolution contains inter alia measures to combat the financing of terrorism and promotes efforts that should lead to the prevention of terrorism and the punishment of terrorists. the counter-terrorism agenda, incorporated in un security council resolution 1373, should therefore be considered to be the most important global point of reference for action – action that has to be taken by all united nations member states. within the european union, the european council and the general affairs council – as well as other council formations such as the justice and home affairs council, the transport council and ecofin – has actively worked, from 9/11 onwards, on setting up, implementing and refining an extensive eu action plan. amongst other things, this involved a european arrest warrant, joint investigation teams, eurojust and legislation on terrorist financing. we have also been active as regards external policy. the key issue of security is at the centre of the european security strategy, which should contribute to a stronger multilateral system. it should address various threats – including terrorism – through active, more coherent internal and external action, with stronger capacities and in close cooperation with our partners. we have also decided to include a terrorism clause in new contractual relations with third countries, similar to the human rights clause. this will allow us to hold serious consultations with third countries which are not fully observing their international obligations in the fight against terrorism, including with regard to the implementation of resolution 1373. by adopting the carrot-and-stick approach – carrots taking the form of assistance – we use the political and economic power of the european union in the fight against terrorism. i turn now to the presidency programme. the work programme of the netherlands presidency in the field of counter-terrorism is extensive and wide-ranging. in addition to a strong focus on implementation of eu measures and legislation, it entails new initiatives in many fields. an important tool in this matter is the eu counter-terrorism action plan. it was adopted by the european council after the horrendous attacks in madrid last march. the presidency works in close cooperation with the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, mr gijs de vries, to implement and complement this action plan. key areas in which we, as presidency, want to take substantial steps forward are justice and home affairs, improvement of cooperation between intelligence services, prevention of terrorist financing and strengthening of the eu's external policies and counter-terrorism. on justice and home affairs, we will focus on the implementation of measures like the european arrest warrant. we also need to improve the way our intelligence agencies work together. having good information on what terrorists are planning and preparing to do is our first line of defence. the eu action plan already outlines some of the steps that we intend to take and mr de vries is fully engaged in this process. we are in the process of strengthening the eu situation centre that will be instrumental in pooling analyses on terrorism in europe. we also need to strengthen the role of europol and make sure it can play its role. in the near future, the european union justice and home affairs ministers will sit with their us counterparts to see how we can strengthen transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the prevention of terrorist financing is high on our agenda. even though the eu is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism, we cannot sit back and relax. money is the life-blood of terrorism and we need to reinforce our financial systems to make sure that they are not abused by terrorists. the third money laundering directive is a fresh step in this matter. we also need to strengthen our policies to freeze assets of terrorists. we therefore seek to make the eu clearing house more effective and to secure better implementation. finally, we will be looking at ways to prevent cash couriers from circumventing banking regulations by taking their money in cash across borders. in our external policies we want to make sure that the resources of the union are being used to their full extent in order to work with other countries in the fight against terrorism. as i have already said, terrorism is a phenomenon that does not respect international borders. it is our firm belief that we must work with third countries to promote the ratification and implementation of un counter-terrorism conventions and to use political dialogue and technical assistance to support countries willing to cooperate. the eu is already active in indonesia, the philippines and pakistan, where it is implementing specific programmes. the eu also operates other programmes in various countries with a view, more generally, to strengthening their judicial systems. we feel that the eu should do more and therefore we are talking to a number of key countries to explore how we can enhance our cooperation. that brings me to terrorism in russia. russia is very worried about the threat of terrorism, and rightly so. but, more than a mere worry, this is a true problem for russia, which has suffered three major attacks in little more than a week. we must show – and indeed have shown – our sympathy. it is clear that the european union has always systematically condemned all acts of terrorism. the russians deserve all the support we can give them. hence we stand by russia to assist it in its efforts to fight terrorism. in our relations with russia, we already discuss counter-terrorism on a regular basis. we stand ready to increase cooperation on a technical level and to share the counter-terrorism experience that we have gained in the eu. we will use the regular dialogues that we have with russia to discuss how to proceed in this matter. we are willing to discuss anti-terrorism strategies and methods with the russians so that we can learn from each other. this cooperation forms part of our overall strategy to strengthen relations between the european union and russia. it is part of our goal to make tangible progress on all four common spaces at the next summit on 11 november. in the field of external security, we have made progress. but the interaction should go hand-in-hand with building up cooperation in the common space of internal security. the terrorist attacks have prompted moscow to continue to regard chechnya as a predominantly anti-terrorist issue. this gives rise to concern. we have been consistent in our position that human rights should be respected in the fight against terrorism. indeed, the european union has a clear position on the situation in chechnya. we will continue to present this position to russia in future. as to the terrorist attack in beslan, i will be brief. we have fully and unconditionally condemned this attack and have offered our condolences to the relatives of the victims, the russian government and the russian people. we therefore fully supported your initiative, mr president, for schools all over europe to respect a one-minute silence at noon yesterday in commemoration of the victims of this terrorist attack. in that way our children were able to show the world their grief for its victims and their worries about terrorism. it is now up to us, the politicians, to translate these worries into further concrete action and to reinvigorate our fight against terrorism while respecting our core values. (applause)
commission. mr president, let me begin where the foreign minister of the netherlands concluded and make it clear that no-one possessed of any shred of humanity could be other than appalled and deeply saddened by the tragic events at the school in beslan in north ossetia two weeks ago. i reiterate the commission’s condolences to the people of beslan. i also unhesitatingly and unreservedly condemn terrorist acts wherever they are perpetrated. attacks on civilians are always contemptible. when they deliberately target children, they plumb new depths of atrocity. sadly, this event, as the presidency noted, was not isolated. in recent months, russia has suffered several terrorist attacks, with targets ranging from the moscow metro to domestic passenger flights. the sequence is deeply disturbing, and the commission has of course expressed its readiness to intensify our work with russia to combat the very real terrorist threats that it faces. we are, to take one example, already working with russia to combat the financing of terrorism, by helping russia to improve its efforts to tackle money laundering. we want ideally to pursue those efforts as part of our much-vaunted 'strategic partnership' with russia, as part of a process of dialogue. dialogue inevitably involves questions. real help comes only with understanding, and understanding comes only with clarity. what happened in beslan is still not fully clear, at least to the outside observer. who were those involved? how did the hostage-takers plan and execute this horrific act? what provoked the storming of the school? why was the number of casualties so high? however, the link with chechnya is clear. events in beslan followed an intensification of rebel attacks in both chechnya and ingushetia since the spring. the current conflict, now in its fifth year, has been a vicious affair, with widespread human rights abuses and the targeting of civilians by both russian armed forces and rebels. many civilians have simply disappeared. the conflict has caused a massive humanitarian crisis and has laid the economy waste. we should all recognise, however, that this is not the time to read russia lectures about chechnya. this is a time of grief and shock. we have had, and will continue to have, our differences with russia over chechnya. we have made, and will continue to make, those differences clear in our meetings with the russians, and to discuss them. that is what partners do. for the commission, there are two principles that guide cooperation with russia on terrorism. first, it is equally – if not more – important to work together to prevent terrorism, by which i mean addressing its root causes. second - and i strongly endorse what the foreign minister has just said - human rights are paramount and must be respected. the fight against terrorism does not justify or excuse the violation of human rights. rather, it is strengthened by a demonstrable respect for the human rights of all citizens. i noted a remarkable statement the other day by the chief justice of the supreme court in israel. he was giving a judgment on the security barrier. what he said reminded me of what we share fundamentally with israel, whatever our criticisms of the present government’s policies. democracies, he argued, have to fight with one hand tied behind their backs. that is true. but it is also true that the moment you behave like the terrorists, you undermine your moral authority and you augment the number of citizens who either actively or passively support them. so when we return to discussion of chechnya, we should continue to make clear our support for a political solution to the conflict, which fully respects russia's territorial integrity. but we should do so in a consistent, intelligent way that does not risk changing from presidency to presidency, and that recognises the complex nature of ethnic conflict in the whole of the caucasus. i note in passing that we and our russian partners need urgently to come to a shared understanding of this point. territorial integrity and stability matter throughout russia’s near abroad, in the southern caucasus as much as the northern caucasus. they matter in the near abroad as well as within russia itself. a shared recognition of that would do much to make our common neighbourhood a safer place. for our part we should recognise that no-one sensible in russia could or should want to return to the chechnyan status quo of the years immediately before 1999. they remember what that was like, and what it led to. so should we. it was appalling – a community that exported gangsterism. so the commission welcomes efforts to rebuild properly functioning public health, education and administrative systems, but we have no illusions. this is the start of a very long journey, which will only be lengthened by the siphoning off of reconstruction funds by corrupt officials, by the apparent manipulation of elections and by a failure to protect human rights and the absence of dialogue. the challenge for russia is to put in place a leadership in chechnya in which the population of chechnya has confidence. without this, there can be no lasting, genuine reconciliation, which it is clear the majority of the population wishes to see. we can help in this, in a modest way, supporting efforts to promote reconstruction and institution-building in chechnya. i repeat the commission’s readiness to provide funds for reconstruction and rehabilitation in the north caucasus, as soon as the security situation permits, and once a needs assessment mission to moscow and the north caucasus can be undertaken. but ultimately that, and any lasting resolution of the chechnyan tragedy, depend on the pursuit of far-sighted, humane and resolute policies in moscow. i hope they are forthcoming and that the government of the russian federation will not conclude that the only answer to terrorism is to increase the power of the kremlin. frankly, there is not much good history on the side of that proposition. (applause)
mr president, it is always easier to speak when we can show our agreement with the previous speakers, in this case the presidency and the commission. almost everything has been said about terrorism. after 9/11, and march 11, and now the tragedy of beslam. and it's not just about terrorism anymore, it's about a new situation that i would call hyperterrorism, where not only civilians, but children are used as an absolutely unacceptable means to achieve ends. in these circumstances, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what we have to say is very simple. firstly, we must demand great firmness from the institutions and governments and we cannot accept, under any circumstances, any neutrality on the part of any institution or state in the face of an act of hyperterrorism of this kind. it is not just governments that are willing to cooperate. we must demand that all governments and institutions cooperate in this fight against terrorism and hyperterrorism. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot make any concessions there either. we do not want the institution of police states anywhere, not even in those places where they have the most justification for being able to justify themselves, because then we would lose, as has been well said, all our moral strength. so what is required, in addition to firmness, is more intensive cooperation and so far we think that cooperation still has some room for improvement. firstly, in the area of intelligence, but also in the question of the financial flows behind terrorism. who funds them, how money circulates internationally are questions that have to be much more thorough than they have been so far. the european institutions are on alert. the work done in this commission, particularly by commissioner vitorino, is to be welcomed and must be further developed. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that from our point of view, terrorism is always a fight against democracy, freedom and the rule of law, which are the cornerstones of our european union. it is an essential reason for us all to fight it together.
in writing. i voted in favour of setting up a temporary committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources of the enlarged union for 2007-13 because i think it is essential to follow this process closely, to collect and coordinate the views of the different budget lines which will be evaluated in this parliament through its various parliamentary committees. the political priorities of the european parliament in this negotiation must be in line with the structure of the new financial perspective. i think it is essential that parliament's final position be incorporated into the council's common position so that negotiations can begin on a plan of understanding of the european project for the near future. i believe that this process must be based on internal consistency, which includes all the institutional elements, and that every effort must be made not only to ensure the smooth running of the negotiations but above all to promote the objectives of the lisbon strategy and a vigorous policy of economic and social cohesion which will continue to allow the convergence of the levels of well-being of the populations of the various member states.
in writing. despite our vote in favour of the creation of a temporary committee on the political priorities and budgetary resources for the next financial perspective 2007-13, we wanted to see two things taken care of. firstly, the work of this commission cannot replace, minimize or subordinate the parallel work that will be carried out, in accordance with the regulatory powers, in the other parliamentary committees. this commission should be of greater value in close cooperation and in the discussion in the various parliamentary committees, and not be a source of hindrance or filtering. as we see it, the opinions on the regulations for the various proposed funds, particularly those on cohesion, social affairs and the productive economy, should be drawn up by the respective parliamentary committees. secondly, the representativeness of the different political groups and nationalities should be ensured. we therefore welcome the fact that an agreement has been reached to increase the membership of this committee to 50 members, provided that it ensures that representation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment in the european parliament of this temporary committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources of the european union. i believe that the group and conference of presidents' approach was well informed, since they considered that the importance of this historic moment and its practical implications for a europe of over 450 million citizens justified this specific committee. this methodology should allow the views of the different parliamentary committees involved to be gathered, weighted and coordinated, thus contributing to a more precise definition of the political priorities of the european parliament, to be reflected in the future financial perspectives. this should not weaken the positions already adopted by the european parliament, which are clearly opposed to reducing the union's resources or abandoning or simply weakening the objectives and policies of cohesion. it is not a question, in my view, of defining a new starting point. on the contrary, this temporary committee should at least adopt the european commission's proposal on the financial perspective and seek to set more ambitious targets for the eu's budgetary resources and at an accelerated pace for the cohesion objectives. this is the challenge in the era of enlargement and the new constitutional treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr philippe morillon on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out, for the period from 3 december 2003 to 2 december 2007, the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the government of mauritius on fishing off mauritius, because i believe it is essential that the protection of the european union's interests in fisheries should be coordinated with the management of marine resources and the development of the populations dependent on this activity. a proper assessment of the sustainability of the fisheries agreements concluded by the european union with third countries is essential, as specific measures are becoming increasingly important for the proper implementation of community actions in the development of local populations, especially coastal communities that depend on traditional fishing. community shipowners will also be protected by the introduction of measures to impose greater control of fishing activities in order to combat illegal fishing and to contribute to the exercise of responsible fishing in the indian ocean.
in writing. the guarantee of fishing opportunities for community fleets, particularly the portuguese fleet, in the exclusive economic zones of third countries is of the utmost importance, not only for the economy and the maintenance of employment, but also for the survival of the many regions in the european union which depend on fishing, particularly the outermost regions. the possibilities have been reduced and the cost of licences has been increased, which, linked to a common fisheries policy that rewards the killing of boats and will no longer give aid to the renewal of the fleet, of which the portuguese government has been an "exemplary" student, explains why much of the portuguese long-distance fishing fleet has been disappearing. we also do not think that the amendments which seek to pass on the cost of the agreements to the shipowners make sense. these trade-based agreements can also contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to the development of local fishing communities. this fisheries protocol, which will last until 2 december 2007, will allow the seven portuguese surface longliners to continue operating as they are registered.
in writing. the agreement is the conclusion of a new fisheries agreement between the european union and a number of countries in the indian ocean, in this case mauritius, which will continue, with the necessary adjustments, the successive agreements concluded in this field since 1989. although the agreement is relatively modest in financial terms and concerns only tuna, the highly migratory nature of the species in question underlines the importance of this agreement for community shipowners. in addition, it also makes economic sense as the value of the catches is far higher than the costs of the agreement to the union. i also think that the side benefits of the agreement, such as job creation in fishing vessels, ports, shipyards, processing plants, shipyards and service companies both in the european union and on the islands themselves, are also beneficial. i also have in mind that 7 of the 90 community vessels in mauritius' waters are portuguese vessels, and i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendments suggested by the rapporteur add value to the proposal for a regulation in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr philippe morillon on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out, for the period 1 january 2004 to 31 december 2006, the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the democratic republic of madagascar on fishing off madagascar, because i am in favour of responsible and sustainable fishing. this protocol lays down the definitions of the fishing opportunities for the community tuna fleet. in the same vein, the protocol makes it possible to promote cooperation relations based on respect for the legislative and regulatory provisions of madagascar's national fisheries policy. this new protocol represents an overall cost identical to that of the previous protocol. the agreement is of crucial importance to the malagasy economy as it is an important source of foreign exchange and creates jobs for local seafarers as well as for the processing and surveillance sector.
in writing. this eighth protocol to the fisheries agreement with the democratic republic of madagascar will last until the end of 2006 and is limited to defining fishing opportunities for the community tuna fleets - which include six portuguese surface longliners - in line with the other tuna agreements concluded by the community with the countries of the indian ocean, which in general deserves our agreement. however, one issue which raises considerable doubts is the so-called exclusivity clause, which implies that vessels flying the flag of a member state cannot obtain any licence except through this protocol. this means in practice that other bilateral agreements are prohibited, which seems to us to be excessive and represents an interference in the internal politics of each member state, especially when there are traditional and historical relations which are not guaranteed by the community agreement.
in writing. the agreement, which is exclusively for tuna fishing, is one of a number of agreements concluded by the union with countries in the indian ocean, allowing the european fishing fleet to continue operating in madagascar's waters. i believe that the european union's fisheries policy should bear in mind the need for transparency, which is particularly important in agreements of this kind, which are not limited to european interests. the development of the malagasy economy, respect for the environment and the sustainability of the fishing effort in madagascar's territorial waters are three aspects which cannot be ignored in this protocol. i agree with the rapporteur's concern that the malagasy government should take measures to ensure better control of fishing activities, otherwise the balance of resources would be jeopardized, and with his view that coastal populations should be the real beneficiaries of this protocol. so i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the extension for the period 1 july 2004 to 30 june 2005 of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of cape verde on fishing off cape verde, in view of the mutual benefits for the community and cape verde of the conclusion of this agreement. we see this extension as an attempt to improve some aspects of this agreement, given the lack of any reliable study by the authorities of this country of official portuguese expression on the situation of resources and the impact of specific measures on the development of the cape verdean fisheries sector, a situation which must be remedied urgently for the benefit of cape verde and its fishermen.
in writing. this report deserves our approval, given its socioeconomic importance for the republic of cape verde and for the states whose fleets are involved - the spanish, portuguese and french fleets - in total 117 vessels, mainly dedicated to tuna fishing, but also to some demersal species. the extension of the current fisheries agreement for another year - until 30 june 2005 - will allow the owners of community fleets to continue their fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cape verde, in particular the two portuguese tuna seiners and the 10 portuguese surface longliners. in addition, the portuguese fleet may fish up to 630 grt per month in the bottom longliner fishery. fishing opportunities which, however, seem small in view of portugal's traditional and historical relations with cape verde, but are also a reflection of the fisheries policy of a cfp which has gradually contributed to the destruction of long-distance fishing fleets such as the portuguese fleet.
in writing. the agreement extends for the period 1 july 2004 to 30 june 2005 a fisheries agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde, which mainly concerns tuna and is designed to allow community vessel owners to continue fishing activities in the cape verdean exclusive economic zone (eez). in fact, in anticipation of the continuation of these relations with cape verde and, in particular, the conclusion of a new agreement for the coming years, the commission considers it necessary to carry out an in-depth assessment of the agreement currently in force. like the rapporteur, i think you are warned and welcome this commitment by the commission. given the advantages for community shipowners, the much higher value of the catches compared to the costs of the agreement, the mutual benefits for the eu and cape verde and the usefulness of the catches for supplying the community market, i cannot but welcome the conclusion of this agreement, enriched by the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. i voted yes.
the situation of instability and terror in iraq today, as well as the recent restoration of a principle of sovereignty in the country with the establishment of a provisional government, are signs of the complexity of the process of creating a secure, stable and democratic iraq. it is, however, in this process that the european union must engage in these turbulent and insecure times for us all. the european union's cooperation with iraq is thus linked to the process of stabilisation, reconstruction and democratization in the country. today, more than ever, we must be aware of the blurring of the lines between internal and external security, which calls for new approaches to cooperation, and for us to overcome unilateralism of the opposite sign, which is totally unacceptable today and which is nothing more than the debate of the past, as has already been said here. today, when all threats are possible, the strength of our alliances is even more necessary in this unwavering and unwavering fight against the terrorist threats that present themselves to us in a horrifying and unlimited way. europe must therefore set an example of firmness in condemning terrorist attacks against civilians, police forces, soldiers of the multinational force, civilian hostages, for whose immediate release parliament must put all its political influence and weight, all atrocious crimes still to be punished. the intention of the interim government to continue, despite all the difficulties, the preparation of free and democratic elections in january 2005 should also be supported. at a time when time seems to be working against the iraqi people's wish to be able to pursue the path of democracy and dismantle the terrorist networks operating on their territory, we are sure that the european union and its member states share this commitment to support the people of iraq in the reconstruction of their country. a country that is free, secure, democratic, united and prosperous, a country at peace within its borders, a country that wants to re-establish cooperative relations with its neighbours as well as with the rest of the world. our parliament, mr president, cannot therefore waver in the face of the complexity of these times, which require strength within our societies, firmness and loyalty in our alliances and above all that our actions be part of a concerted struggle for the project of peace, stability and prosperity to which iraq and the iraqis are unquestionably entitled. after all, mr president, nobody wants this project to fail.
building on past experiences and failures, it would be a surgical operation; days of locating and eliminating weapons of mass destruction, toppling a dictator, establishing a democracy, plus one. the days passed, the days added up to weeks, months, the time had already been measured in years, the weapons did not exist (as we knew), a country is occupied against the will of its people, it resists, the war continues in increasingly dramatic forms, the victims are increasing, on the one hand by the tens, with names and faces, on the other by the thousands, anonymous and uncounted for statistics. and some political positions seem hostages to hostages. in the meantime, the united states is establishing more military bases in that part of the greater middle east, while in palestine violence against the palestinians is on the rise, the price of oil is rising and the inconsistency of an economy conditioned by this energy source, a globalized economy transformed into finance and speculation, is becoming clear. in the countries of the european union, after the initial split, there is a relative convergence in the search for sharing the profits of occupation and reconstruction. but there are also those who denounce this enormous fraud, necessary because the populations have access to information that was previously non-existent or much less. we fight for what positions this ... (the minutes were approved)
finally, mr president, the commission recognizes that the diversity of the economic and social situations of the various countries calls into question the rationality of nominative criteria in the application of the stability pact. although late, it does give credence to the criticisms we have made from the outset, criticising in particular the 3% limit for the public deficit, and warning of its socioeconomic impacts. but we cannot but regret that these proposals appear only after france and germany have failed to comply with them in successive years, and serve primarily to give them cover in a mere political cosmetic operation. we know how the implementation of the stability pact has served to justify public disinvestment, particularly in social areas of state responsibility, by encouraging increasing privatisations. the consequences are well known: slowdown, stagnation and, in some countries such as portugal, economic recession, with the growth of unemployment and social exclusion. we therefore say that it is necessary and urgent to revoke the stability pact and to start a broad overall review of the economic and monetary policies in the european union. to ensure economic and social development, a genuine pact for employment and social progress which gives priority to economic and social cohesion, employment and social inclusion.
i think that the interpreters will be grateful and so will i, because i will be able to recognize the german spoken by a spaniard more easily next time.
mr president, i would like to say very quickly that we all came to the european union because we share the same constitutional values. there is nothing essentially new in the constitution other than greater legal and political integration of the member states. it is a new political moment, and it is because it makes clear that europe is more than an economic area or a market. it is a space of values, a constitutional homeland, whose governing element is the dignity of man. as a joint project, europe requires us to mobilise together. the constitution is not drafted in the classical terms of the old constitutions, but involves european institutions, states and citizens. the european institutions which gave birth to the dream cannot now give birth to fear. they must mobilize themselves in this common task of bringing to the citizens an objective and true discourse on the reason for the constitution, which is nothing more or less than a basic existence of constitutional convergence between the different states. that is why direct communication between the institutions and the citizens is required here and the exclusive role of state mediation is clearly removed. the necessary strategic impetus is being given by the institutions to take action across the board in this process of completing the constitutional foundation. we must avoid the vertigo of dividing the european discourse and, even more, avoid the vertigo of instrumentalising the european discourse. we have entered a new political time. the european institutions must be the first to take it on.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i would like to begin by saying that it is a pity that we have had the opportunity in this debate to make a brief introduction to the populist, nationalist-type discourse and parochialism surrounding national languages. even a constitutional debate offers an opportunity for this exercise of this parochial mentality that is incapable of achieving what is at stake here. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that we think it would be out of line for the european commission, which played a decisive role in drawing up the constitutional text, to now relinquish its responsibilities in a common strategy for its adoption. and a common strategy articulated by the commission and the council is something more demanding and goes beyond a mere information campaign aimed at disseminating objective information. this role is very important, however, a common strategy goes beyond this and requires something more. given the characteristics of the european project and, in particular, the conditions for the approval of the constitutional text, as someone has quite rightly said in each national procedure for the approval of the text, the interests of the other states and the interests of all the states and the interests of all the european citizens are at stake in each country. and that is also why the intervention of the community institutions, the commission, the council and the european parliament itself is the only one, given its indisputable supranational nature, in particular the commission and the european parliament, to intervene strongly in this process without being subject to criticism of interference in an internal democratic process of the states. the supranational institutions are not subject to criticism for interfering in the internal process of the states and therefore have an increased obligation to assume their responsibilities in the struggle for the approval of the constitution.
i would ask the council to respect this time, since there is a further debate to follow in the council's presence and the bureau has been informed of the minister's time constraints. however, we are sure that any time that is lost here will be to the benefit of parliament and also to the benefit of your presence here to complete the answers at the next question time.
thank you very much, commissioner. ladies and gentlemen, this debate is closed at this stage. the vote on the resolution on this debate will take place on 14 october. the next item is the debate on the report by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement. i would like to give the floor to mr nicolai to answer the first question put by mrs ludford on fair trials for european citizens and residents in europe. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the debate on these questions which the european parliament is putting to the commission reveals that, instead of being concerned with a clear and enlightening debate, in which the different political positions and their arguments are confronted with the proposed constitutional treaty, it is reacting with alarm and apprehension to the holding of the announced national referendums. only in this way can it be understood that it is questioning the european commission on the action it intends to take as part of a communication strategy with a view to a positive outcome of the ratification procedures of this treaty. or, to ask the council what action it intends to take to define a common approach for the member states and, if possible, a coordinated timetable for ratifying the constitution for europe, and to draw up a communication strategy with a view to a positive outcome of its ratification processes. the ep wants an 'approach', a 'time-frame' and a 'strategy' - mobilising community resources, including financial resources - to be adopted in order to achieve a 'positive result', i.e. the adoption of the 'european constitution'. which is unacceptable! it is not an original idea, because the confederation of the big employers in europe has already made the same appeal.
the next item is the report (b6-0007/04) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. we are discussing the questions to the council today.
question no 1 by sarah ludford (h-0212/04) subject: fair trials for european citizens and residents in europe can the council describe in detail the efforts it has made to ensure the fair trial or repatriation of european citizens and residents of europe held in guantanamo bay, bagram, abu graib, diego garcia and other camps administered by the us authorities and indicate the purpose of these efforts?
question no 2 by mrs stihler (h-0213/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: caged children in the czech republic the sunday times recently carried a chilling report on the practice of caging children in the raby asylum near prague in the czech republic. five mentally handicapped children and one infant with cerebral palsy were found in cages, only taken out briefly in the morning to be fed and washed. in another asylum, a 14-year-old girl died when a cage railing fell on her. the use of cages has been condemned by amnesty international and the human rights watch as violating international law and being contrary to the united nations convention on the rights of the child. several activists, including children's author j. k. rowling, have condemned the inhumanity of this kind of barbaric treatment. what steps does the council intend to take to ensure that the practice of caging children is brought to an end?
question no 3 by mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0216/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: progress in the reconstruction process in the balkans the dutch presidency has not included in its priorities for external relations the promotion of relations between the eu and the balkan countries and the promotion of the process of their reconstruction. in its latest report (third report on the stabilisation and association process with south-east europe), the european commission states that it has granted the additional amount of eur 71 million (an increase of about 13%) to the western balkans from the 2004 budget for the reconstruction of the balkans as well as new means for the promotion of regional cooperation. in this context, does the council intend to take concrete steps to strengthen reconstruction and regional cooperation between the balkan countries and the eu member states? is the council satisfied with the implementation of the commitments made by the countries of the region to strengthen regional cooperation and to promote a series of concrete objectives and initiatives decided upon at the thessaloniki council? will it ask the commission to submit further proposals in this area?
question no 4 by marie anne isler béguin (h-0219/04) subject: conditionality of ratification of the kyoto protocol in agreements between the eu and third countries the european union is involved, particularly through its echo programme, in ecological disasters on the five continents. these environmental disasters of increasing proportions are the result of decades of ecological neglect which may, in the long run, exceed the capacity of community assistance. the eu is a party to the kyoto protocol, its resolutions and objectives; the eu is also the world's leading economic and trading power. why does the council not immediately address the causes of these global environmental shocks by making ratification of the kyoto protocol a precondition for all negotiations and agreements between the eu and third countries?
question no 5 by brian crowley (h-0220/04) subject: highlighting the positive role of europe in the absence of a real debate on european issues during the election campaign for the european parliament, could the dutch presidency indicate what new initiatives it would like to promote to highlight the positive role that the european union plays in the lives of the citizens of the 25 member states?
question no 6 by seán ó neachtain (h-0222/04) subject: relations between the eu and the us the dutch presidency has stated its intention to work to ensure that transatlantic relations, including economic cooperation and trade relations, are strengthened on the basis of a positive agenda. can the council give a detailed statement on what it intends to include in its positive agenda and whether it will develop initiatives outside the sphere of economic cooperation and trade relations, for example in the areas of culture and development aid?
the time allotted for questions has now been used up and questions nos 7 to 23 will be answered in writing. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
mr president, it is well known that in portugal the social stigmatisation of women who have an abortion is being encouraged and that the police and judicial apparatus are being misused to investigate and prosecute women accused of illegal abortion, because of the maintenance of an unjust and unjust law, which is out of step with the social reality and the reasons why women have abortions. it is in this context that important international solidarity actions have been developed for portuguese women, including the recent attempt by the dutch boat of the organization 'women on waves' which was inadmissible prevented by the portuguese government from entering portuguese territorial waters, thus making it difficult to hold debates and information on matters of sexual and reproductive rights. the situation of intolerance reached a ridiculous point when the portuguese government sent two navy corvettes to surround the dutch association's boat. however, on the basis of the declarations of the united nations conferences in cairo and beijing, the european parliament, in its resolution of 3 july 2002, recommended that governments develop high-quality national sexual and reproductive health policies in cooperation with pluralistic civil society organisations, providing ample information on effective methods and family planning and ensuring quality access to all forms of contraceptive methods, which is not the case in portugal. it also recommended that, in order to safeguard reproductive health and women's rights, voluntary termination of pregnancy be legal, safe and universally accessible, and urged governments to refrain from taking legal action against women who have had illegal abortions, which is also not the case in portugal. it is in this context that we believe that the european commission cannot ignore the situation in portugal, with its enormous hypocrisy and violence against women, which objectively favours the business of clandestine abortion, dragging women with the lowest economic resources and with the least access to information into the most insecure and most dangerous circuits for their sexual and reproductive health. we therefore hope that the european commission will show its solidarity with portuguese women, will speak out against intolerance and will join the positions already taken by the european parliament in this area, by promoting the necessary awareness-raising actions in the defence and promotion of women's rights and dignity. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. mr president, the commission has been following developments in this situation. according to the information available to the commission, 'women on waves', together with other persons and organisations, appealed against the refusal of entry of the vessel into portugal. on 6 september 2004 the administrative and fiscal court of coimbra adopted a decision on the appeal which has been the subject of a further appeal by 'women on waves'. the commission would recall the principles of community law in connection with the free movement of persons. european citizens are entitled to have access to the territory of other member states in accordance with the various rights to freedom recognised by the ec treaty, subject to the conditions and limitations provided for by that treaty and its implementing provisions. member states can restrict this fundamental right enshrined by article 18 of the ec treaty solely when this is justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. where a member state adopts a measure refusing entry to its territory based on one of these grounds, it must respect the general principles of community law. it must respect fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of expression, and in particular the proportionality principle, as well as the provisions of council directive 64/221/eec of 25 february 1964 on the coordination of special measures justified on grounds of public policy, public security and public health, as interpreted by the court of justice of the european communities. when decisions are taken on grounds of public policy or public security, the conduct of the persons in question must pose a real and sufficiently serious threat to the fundamental interests of society. only the diseases or disabilities referred to in the annex to directive 64/221/eec can justify refusals to enter member states on grounds of public health. under directive 64/221/eec, decisions refusing entry or ordering expulsion from the territory must be notified to the person concerned, informing him or her of the grounds of public policy, public security or public health upon which the decision has been taken. the person concerned must be able to lodge a complaint against this decision. it is for the portuguese national courts to rule on the validity of the decision, while respecting the general principles of community law and the provisions of directive 64/221/eec. the commission has not yet received a complaint about this incident from the representatives of the 'women on waves' organisation. however, it intends to contact the portuguese authorities to obtain more detailed information on the facts related by the honourable members. (applause)
mr president, this debate is pointless. in the present case, a portuguese court found that the portuguese government had acted lawfully. in a state governed by the rule of law, the judiciary is independent of the other branches of government. the portuguese government does not give orders to the judiciary. the voluntary termination of pregnancy and, in turn, the legality of a judicial decision cannot be assessed by this parliament. voluntary termination of pregnancy is a matter for the exclusive competence of each member state. the portuguese law does not differ substantially from that of most member states and was adopted by a democratic parliament. a referendum recently voted against its amendment. i understand that a pregnant woman should be able to decide in her conscience on this delicate matter, but the majority of citizens who have expressed a different position should be respected. it's a majority and we're in a state of law. i would inform commissioner wallström that no member of the women on waves, who previously enjoyed full freedom of movement and expression in portugal, has been refused entry. with no restrictions, they spoke wherever they wanted, to whomever they wanted and gave the interviews they wanted. they have even encouraged the purchase and ingestion of drugs that can only be sold by prescription because they are likely to cause serious injury to the body. a citizen, who i believe is a doctor, has confirmed that she purchased one of these medicines without a clinical prescription from a portuguese pharmacy in breach of basic public health rules. as a doctor, this is very serious. the staff of the order of physicians and the order of pharmacists have already protested. the restrictions on freedom of movement in the european union are precisely aimed at protecting public health and preventing illegal activities. in practice, there has been an incitement to clinically unassisted abortion, i repeat - unassisted - with the intention of exploiting situations of deprivation, ignorance and need in which many pregnant women find themselves, by inciting them to violate the law for mere propaganda reasons. this is a truly shocking violation of the fundamental rights of the human person which parliament should condemn outright. it is therefore wrong, mr president, it is wrong that the conference of presidents did not abort this debate. (applause from the right)
mr president, commissioner, this debate is a victory for democracy and it makes perfect sense here in the european parliament today. this is not just a matter for portugal and women. it is a matter for men and women throughout the european union. it also concerns the commission, the council and parliament. the portuguese government, by prohibiting a dutch vessel from entering its territorial waters, has not only violated international law but also community law and the convention on the law of the sea. citizens of europe, women's rights defenders are prevented from entering a european country and treated as if they were criminals. the commission and parliament cannot and must not remain indifferent. men and women from a non-governmental organisation in one member state who are invited by an ngo in another member state to promote jointly information and awareness-raising activities on reproductive and sexual health are compared to drug dealers, illegal fishermen or smugglers. the commission and the european parliament cannot and must not remain indifferent. the portuguese government has invoked respect for national laws and the defence of public health, but which portuguese laws have been violated, when and how? it was not the women's organizations that broke the law, but the portuguese government, which disrespected women's rights. the alleged danger to public health is also unfounded, since none of the ship's crew carried infectious diseases. the lisbon government has decided and decided wrongly, on the basis of presumptions and evidence to intimidate women who advocate voluntary termination of pregnancy. the portuguese government has banned the free movement of european citizens within the community area, based on a process of intent and to avoid the uncomfortable debate for the ruling coalition being made and, stranger still, while the boat remained off portugal, it was permanently watched by two corvettes of the portuguese navy. should portugal's warships be used to intimidate citizens who are peacefully and courageously defending their causes? in a democracy, there is no crime of opinion. what happened in portugal with the women on waves boat cannot be repeated and cannot go unpunished. if it does, it will set a serious precedent which could lead to the restriction of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all of us as citizens of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that in this debate we are discussing whether or not the portuguese law is - and is - one of the most backward in europe, whether or not, in the matter of abortion, it is worse than, for example, the law in tunisia. we are not discussing why portuguese women have to go to spain to have abortions that they cannot have in portugal, or why those who cannot afford to go to spain do so clandestinely, in difficulties for their public health in portugal. that's not what we're discussing. nor why portuguese women still have to go to court to expose their pain and their intimacy in an act of immense humiliation. i'm not going to. what we are discussing here is not why the administrative court of first instance decided what it decided in portugal. i'm not going to. what we are discussing here is exactly the problem of whether it is legitimate in europe - because this is a european matter - for a military corvette to confront and prevent three men and three women on the high seas from reaching a portuguese port, since they are on a vessel legalised by one member state and are providing a medical service duly legalised by another member state. this is what we're discussing. we are discussing whether it is possible to conceive of a european project when the portuguese state, in opposition to the most hasty and controversial law that exists in portugal, can and claims the right to send a military corvette on the high seas against a civilian vessel in order to defend that law. this is what we're discussing and nothing else. that is why mr vasco graça moura may well want to abort this debate, but he cannot. the commission's response is an encouraging one, which, while not sufficient, ensures that the kind of behaviour that has just occurred will continue to be strongly objected to and opposed by those in this europe who argue that the free movement of people and ideas is a constitutive value of the european project itself. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive. the attention of parliament, the commission and the council should be drawn, as has already been said, to the very sad way in which the dutch ship's very sad mission ended and to the unbridled and irresponsible propaganda of illegal abortion by self-executing, illegal acquisition and improper use of medicines. i am not referring to the ru486 pill, which is not licensed in portugal, as in many other countries of the european union, and which was carried on board the ship, but to the irresponsible acquisition and use of medicines which can be bought in pharmacies, albeit with certain restrictions. the unbridled propaganda that has been made carries very serious risks not only to the right to life of the child - who dies if the abortion is committed - but also a serious risk to the health of the woman who may suffer very serious injuries, as is shown, moreover, by the specific pharmacological literature. otherwise this debate is useless, unnecessary and inappropriate. besides, it is offensive. i must say that it always hurts me, frankly, to see my country slandered abroad and it hurts me even more when i see my countrymen doing the main part of this work, giving a distorted picture of reality to uninformed eyes and trying to caricature the prop around a propaganda circus. i have the greatest respect for the netherlands, for the dutch people and in the european union for the dutch presidency, but we have our own laws. we always discuss these issues freely without the need for these excursions. as we all know, we are a democratic and free country. our laws are the result of our democracy, that is to say, portugal is not a dutch colony or anyone else's, much less the target territory of any expeditionary group that came to educate the indigenous in the fashion of the cultural dynamism of 1975 and the peak of the prec. we practice respect and democracy, we demand democracy and respect. the infringement of freedom of movement was invoked. this is ridiculous! the dutch ladies were free to move about as everyone knows, wherever they wanted. the ship isn't. the infringement of freedom of expression and information was invoked. this is ridiculous! everyone was free to debate what they wanted at this time, as on all other occasions. the only violence committed was the extremist and intimidating language, full of hatred and intolerance, used by supporters of the dutch group's nautical circus to condition the portuguese people and their citizenship rights, and the partial treatment of much of the media, shackled by the demagogic populism of the naval excursion, or the vandalism against the headquarters of our party. the portuguese government acted within the framework of the law. the court has given you the benefit of the doubt and this is not a matter for the european union. (applause from the right)
i would like to stress the first victory of this debate, in which it was stated that the commission will ask the portuguese government for explanations on the 'borndiep'. in portugal, at least one woman in four has had an illegal abortion, and this is a serious public health problem. this number is clear and we cannot continue to bury our heads in the sand. in view of this, what kind of condemnation do we as the european union apply to these women? shall we have them arrested? and what about the ones that are going to abort their pregnancies in london or badajoz? shut down the borders? do we put them under permanent military surveillance by the european army? we must seize all the newspapers sold in portugal that advertise foreign, specifically european, clinics that perform safe and legal voluntary abortions. what if the borndiep was a train? or if it was a tir truck? would military tanks of the army be preventing the train or the tir from entering portuguese territory, ensuring that the law was not potentially violated and that the portuguese were not informed? is the commission aware that, despite the fact that the two portuguese war corvettes were permanently used, no military or civilian authority has ever asked to enter the 'borndiep' and check on the spot the potential dangers? is the commission aware that all the support for the portuguese minister of defence is based on cuts other than the average and not on factual findings? in view of all this, it was important to realise that the commission has clear intentions to enforce the treaties. otherwise, if turkey joins the european union, the commission will have to take military action in the case of a married portuguese man who goes to turkey and announces beforehand that he has a girlfriend there and will therefore commit adultery. commissioner, action is crucial at this time. so that we do not have to face the confounding logic of more of the same in the european union too. this is not a question of morality or individual opinion, commissioner, this is a question of legality. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the fight against terrorism and organised crime should be a priority for any european government today. priority means using all available means, police, investigation, intelligence and reserving the capacities of the judiciary to act quickly and effectively. the commission recommends that member states strengthen all the means to combat this. despite the notorious lack of resources, the portuguese state has been diverting important means of investigation and judicial proceedings, directing them towards another objective: the punishment of illegal abortion. the portuguese police conduct telephone tapping of peaceful citizens, their relatives or suspected medical professionals. you spend years watching them and chasing them, you spend years of law enforcement work in an already overstretched system with no staff and with degraded facilities and equipment, trying women accused of abortion. taxpayers' money is being spent on criminal investigations into medical practices that portuguese women can go and practice in spain, in complete safety and legality. operations which women who can afford to do in private portuguese clinics disguised as other surgical interventions, operations which many women, those who cannot afford, are condemned to do clandestinely, risking their lives, subject to being arrested and taken by the police to hospitals for forced gynaecological examinations and then to humiliating trials. but hypocrisy has now taken on new delirium, with the denial of entry to the boat of the association "women on waves", by which the portuguese government, the government left in portugal by mr barroso, has sought to prevent information and debate on family planning in a clear violation of fundamental rights, international law and community law and has assigned to this totally disproportionate means, police means and even military, not hesitating to use warships. the european union has also been involved in the fight against drugs, and the european union has been involved in the fight against drugs, and the european union has been involved in the fight against drugs. i ask the commission, in the explanations it will ask the portuguese government, as commissioner wallström has said, and i welcome it, beyond the angles she has mentioned, not to ignore the unjustified, excessive and almost obsessive use by the portuguese government of means of criminal investigation, judicial and even military in the fight against abortion and information on family planning, subtracting them from the resources and efforts that portugal should make to ensure the european union's policy of crime prevention in the common fight against international terrorism and organised crime.
mr president, i propose that the following sentence be added to the end of paragraph 8:
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation imposing certain restrictive measures in support of the effective exercise of the mandate of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty), as it concerns the adoption of measures in respect of uncaptured defendants who continue to evade justice, in particular to prevent them from travelling and using their property. my favourable position was also based on the fact that it was a concerted action with the united nations and the member states of the union, by applying a provision of the treaties themselves.
in writing. i abstained on the motion for a resolution on the 35th session of the assembly of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) from 28 september to 8 october 2004, expressing my conviction that the european parliament should not interfere in the work of the icao assembly before the session takes place, and even more so by taking a position on matters which, as it turns out, are merely proposals to amend a resolution to be discussed at that assembly. despite the sympathy we feel the subject deserves, it is in the text itself, which was approved by the majority of the ep, that we find the justification for our position, since it recognises (paragraph 3) that the european commission should have a seat in the icao assembly. the ep does not have to intervene in this matter.
in writing. i support the environmental concerns of the drafters of the motion for a resolution. i believe that the competent institutions of the union should promote the study of the environmental impact of civil aviation and examine how it can be reduced. however, i had to abstain in the vote. the hasty way in which the resolution is presented takes away objectivity from a matter which, because of its seriousness and importance in the life of the ordinary citizen, deserves careful scrutiny by the committees on transport and the environment, among others.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in belarus, although i consider that in this type of resolution there is always a fine line between the legitimate need to exert international pressure on states and governments which violate the rules of democracy and the rule of law and interference in the internal affairs of a country, which is a much more sensitive issue. the fact that belarus is covered by the european neighbourhood policy with a view to enhanced cooperation with the european union and the fact that there are serious violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees which are the essence of a democratic state governed by the rule of law in the country, requires that the eu and in particular this parliament, in coordination with the united nations commission on human rights, take initiatives such as this, which are appropriate to stimulate democratic progress in belarus and in particular the free and fair holding of the next elections on 17 october.
in writing. as the date of the parliamentary elections in belarus approaches, there are growing indications that repression and the unlawful restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees in that country have worrisomely increased. the constitutional referendum scheduled for the same date to abolish the article limiting the number of consecutive presidential terms has worrying plebiscitary characteristics. the political developments in belarus have been particularly worthy of attention in this parliament, which naturally advocates the strengthening of stability, freedom and security in that country. the union should maintain this focus and continue to put pressure on the belarusian authorities to bring about real change which goes beyond the formal legal framework and is reflected in real changes which improve living conditions, effectively promote democracy and allow full political self-determination for citizens. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following statements by the european council and the commission under rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure on behalf of the committee on development on the darfur region in sudan and the reports submitted by our colleagues from the ep delegation which visited the region from 2 to 7 september. whatever the reasons behind the real ethnic cleansing that is taking place in darfur, we have an obligation to condemn the actions against civilians which have already resulted in over 30 000 deaths, 1 million displaced persons in sudan and over 200 000 refugees in chad. the sudanese government, in so far as it has supported attacks on civilians in violation of the ceasefire agreement and, on the other hand, has continued to pursue a policy of underdevelopment and economic marginalization of the regions affected by the conflict, also deserves our political condemnation, which my vote in favour also meant.
in writing. i have been following with great consternation the reports coming in from the darfur region. i believe that this is an opportunity for the european parliament to set an example and to call on the other institutions of the union to follow suit in continuing to condemn the atrocities and to work towards finding solutions to the conflict. the condemnation of barbarism must be unequivocal and the mobilization of resources for the promotion of peace must go beyond the limits of rhetoric, persisting in the efforts already made and which have begun to achieve such good results. as in the cases of bosnia, rwanda and burundi, among many others, it is difficult to imagine the full dramatic dimension of any further mass deaths, except for a genocide which we will invariably proclaim will be the last. i believe that the union cannot relieve the pressure on the sudanese government and the actors in the conflict in order to ensure that the ceasefire that has been reached is strictly observed. the european union, which claims to be a global actor, has the power to ensure that the case of darfur does not fall into oblivion and impunity. i voted in favour of the amendments, with the exception of no 12, which improved on the original proposal of the committee on development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in iraq because i believe that europe must set an example of firmness in condemning terrorist attacks against civilians, police forces, soldiers of the multinational force, civilian hostages, for whose immediate release our parliament must put all its influence and political weight. the intention of the interim government to continue preparations for the holding of free and democratic elections in january 2005 should also be supported by allowing the iraqis to continue on the path to democracy and the dismantling of the terrorist networks operating in their territory. the ep cannot therefore waver in the face of the complexity of these times, which require strength within our societies, firmness and loyalty in alliances and above all that our actions be part of a concerted struggle for the project of peace, stability and prosperity to which iraq and the iraqis are unquestionably entitled.
in writing. this resolution is of enormous significance. he's delimited and clarified fields. the joint proposal reveals a consensus between the right and the social democrats which cannot but be underlined. the consensus is based on what? - on the assimilation of the iraqi people's resistance to terrorism (which exists, which we condemn, but which is not exclusive to others), - on the transformation of the dramatic situation of the victims and hostages, journalists and cooperators, into a situation which is not the result of the invasion and occupation, - on the attempt to cover up under the umbrella of the un in the near future what has already been done on the margins and against the un and international law. the amendments proposed by the green group would widen the consensus that we alone would be left out, and the failure to approve our group's amendments would rather show that we would be isolated on this crucial issue. we don't feel that way. we are aware that we are with those who reject the illegal and unjust nature of the war of invasion and occupation that has been perpetrated, with those who resist, with those who demand the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces. and it is the people who are against war and who defend peace who are with us.
in writing. i have been following with concern the developments in iraq, and in particular the difficulties in its democratic stabilisation following the fall of saddam hussein's dictatorial regime. the frequent taking and killing of iraqi and foreign hostages, which is a challenge to the international community and the interim government of iraq, is a stark reflection of the much that remains to be done in that country. the european union must draw on its experience in assisting transition and humanitarian emergencies by continuing to support the transition effort which will hopefully conclude the process already under way of returning to the iraqis full control of their country's destiny and the emergence of democracy in iraq. the additional contribution proposed by the european commission, which i welcome, is a sign of this commitment. i regret that the united nations has not yet been able to assume its full role in iraq and i hope that the security council will continue to support the provisional government, which has already been recognized as sovereign. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which i consider to be balanced. i regret that the amendments tabled by the communist and green groups reflect a certain demagogy and lack of understanding of the situation. fortunately, they were rejected.
in writing. the conservation of wildlife has been the subject of attention from the european union and particularly from the european parliament. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora has been the main global legal instrument for the defence and protection of wild fauna and flora. and there is now a greater need for cooperation and exchange of information between member states, particularly to tackle the international crime that feeds on this trade. externally, i believe that the european union can play an important role in establishing stable means of cooperation with third countries, seeking to develop initiatives aimed at protecting endangered species and promoting biodiversity. i voted yes.
mr president, at the end of 2002 i was travelling in burma and saw that burma was a police state. the burmese authorities have not cooperated with the un special envoys, and the latest attack on aung san su kyi and the ndl is a further setback. the world must not forget about the rest of the country, which is suffering from serious oppression. discrimination against different ethnic groups, the confiscation of property, and the existence of political prisoners, forced labour, political rape and child soldiers have been well documented, as well as the burning down of villages. fifty per cent of the national budget goes to the military. money comes from foreign business and investment. the brutal military dictatorship is the root cause of the problems ravaging burma. sanctions that would bite have never been strictly applied. burma has not met any of the three criteria set by the eu in april. all members of the committee on development who have spoken in the debate feel strongly that the eu should not participate in the asem summit in hanoi with burma. instead, the eu should increase and toughen sanctions against the regime leaders and should impose sanctions on the european corporations that do business with the burmese regime, and specifically the french oil company total. the eu should urge countries such as the usa, australia and japan to do likewise. eu members should ask the united nations security council to impose marked targeted sanctions against the burmese military regime, since it massively violates human rights, sends refugees into neighbouring countries, and sponsors the production of drugs and crime. it would be a shame if at the asem summit the eu allowed burma to be dismissed as a minor issue in its overall relations with asia.
in the paradise of the maldives, where more than 300,000 european tourists are spending unforgettable holidays, thousands of local citizens face a hell of oppression from a harsh totalitarian regime in power for 26 years. for its part, the european union has a moral and political duty not to forget these people who live under a state of emergency and have to endure mass arbitrary arrests (see pro-democracy political leaders tortured and held incommunicado in detention) and who have to live under a regime that denies them an independent judicial system. the situation is such that a delegation from the european union was denied access to these prisoners. the european union must demand the immediate end of the state of emergency and the release of all prisoners. parliament called on the commission and the member states to immediately cease all non-humanitarian aid to the maldives and to impose an immediate travel ban to prevent members of the maldivian government and other senior officials from entering the member states of the european union. the commission, in turn, must ask the member states to issue warnings to all tourists planning to go to the maldives, that paradise is not paradise after all and that they do not forget that there are human beings suffering tremendous oppression in that country.
the situation in the middle east is unacceptable, with particular emphasis on the extreme gravity of palestine, where the sharon government is committing the gravest crimes against the palestinian people. we cannot allow israel's provocative arrogance and the state terrorism of its government, which has been systematically supported by the bush administration, to continue unpunished, and which is killing elderly people, women and children every day, as is also the case with the occupying forces in iraq. the european union cannot continue to be weak. it is time for the european council to take strong action, to implement the european parliament's decision, to suspend the association agreement with israel and to demand compliance with un decisions. we cannot allow this provocative arrogance on the part of sharon and his government, which is backed by the bush administration, which vetoed a draft resolution condemning israel's terrorist practices, while the people are fighting for their right to freedom and dignity. the palestinian people, like the people of iraq, have the right to a state, to decide their own destiny and to live in peace.
i thank the council and all those who have taken part in this debate and, in closing, i would like to say that the bureau has received six motions for resolutions and that the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice, which will also be the subject of a vote tomorrow on the report by mr bourlanges. i give the floor to mr donner to speak for the council for the period of 10 minutes.
i thank you very much, commissioner, for your brevity, but let me tell you that only the future will tell us whether this was your last speech in this chamber or whether it was simply the last before a future one you will make before this chamber. i now give the floor to mr jean-louis bourlanges, chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for five minutes.
i cannot thank you for the conciseness of your speech, but i can thank you for the passion with which you spoke.
i now give the floor to the president-in-office of the council, mr donner, since under the council's rules of procedure he is entitled to speak at any time he so requests. i would like to stress to the dutch presidency, before i give you the floor, that it is necessary that, at the meetings where the council intervenes and makes statements, you organise the presidency's agenda in such a way that you can attend the full debate, because debates with the european parliament are not mere formalities, they are part of the fundamental activity of the relationship between the council and the european parliament. i call minister donner.
mr president, there is a rule of institutional courtesy which implies that the bureau does not, of course, set time limits for the council or the commission, but there is a distribution of time on the assumption of an equitable use of the floor. it was, in fact, attributed to the members of parliament. it was foreseen that the council would be able to speak at the end of the debate for five minutes. i know that you are not speaking at the end of the debate, but in the middle of it, but let me point out that we are now in the 12 minutes, so i would like to make it a little more concise so that there is time for the members too. thank you very much.
then i repent that we have been deprived of hearing this long-awaited finale. we shall now resume the normal order of the debate and i give the floor to mrs kudrycka.
the excellent report by mr bourlanges comes at the end of five years of post-tampere in 1999, of the attempt to create the area of freedom, security and justice. in a way, the situation we are facing in this house is a reflection of the situation we have been living in for the last five years. the commission is always present, thanks to the intelligent and determined initiative of commissioner vitorino, whom i welcome and congratulate, and the council, when not present, is unable to take a decision. i look at the empty council chair and i have the picture of what has happened over these five years in the area of freedom, security and justice. i want to believe that the european council on 5 november will be what parliament called for in the resolution by mr ribeiro e castro. we had proposed that there should be a tampere ii to assess the state of the area of freedom, security and justice and to relaunch, with demand and will, new goals and timetables. i must say, mr commissioner, that i regard the work proposed for this council on 5 november, for which the commission has worked very hard, as a very pragmatic approach. i agree with the general principles set out in the political guidelines for the multiannual programme. the fight against international terrorism should be a top priority, with a general counter-terrorism strategy both at the level of the member states of the european union and at the international level. at the same time there must be a policy for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms. special attention should also be paid to aspects such as the control of migratory flows, the problem of the functioning of the border management agency, the operational start of the vis system, the second generation of the schengen information system, and the strengthening of the security of travel documents and visas. finally, for the council in its absence, i would like to say that if the creation of this area of freedom, security and justice is indeed one of the european union's major political priorities, this should be clearly reflected in the allocation of the appropriate financial means in the next financial perspective. thank you very much.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1268/1999 on community support for preaccession measures in the field of agriculture and rural development in the applicant countries of central and eastern europe during the preaccession period. the proposed amendments seek to harmonise certain provisions applicable to the new member states by including a new eligible measure enabling rural communities in bulgaria and romania to prepare and implement local rural development strategies, adapting the aid intensity to levels similar to those granted to the countries acceding to the european union in 2004 and finally providing clarification on the limits of the aid rates. in my view, the proposals for revision in question, which are based on extensive experience, meet the objective of ensuring greater effectiveness in the monitoring of community support, which is of the utmost importance in the context of preparing the entry of future member states.
in writing. the experience of successive enlargements of the european communities shows that rural communities are particularly vulnerable to change and integration into more dynamic and competitive economic spaces and rural development strategies need to be designed and implemented to take account of this particular circumstance. in view of this, which is still evident in my own country, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on community support for pre-accession measures in the field of agriculture and rural development in the applicant countries of central and eastern europe. in this context, and in view of the future accession of bulgaria and romania, i believe that the union has done well in harmonizing the measures to be applied in these countries with those of those which joined the union on 1 may last.
in writing. the commission proposes to give the european parliament and the council the satisfaction they desired by presenting an evaluation report on the application of regulations (ec) nos 2702/1999 and 2826/2000 on information and promotion measures for agricultural products in third countries and on the internal market. the commission is also proposing a number of regulatory amendments which give rise to reservations. these information and promotion measures, which are complementary to national and private measures, are of the utmost importance, particularly for countries such as portugal, which have high-quality agricultural products with added value, such as cheeses, spirits, fruit and olive oil. these measures are all the more necessary when the liberalisation of agricultural trade is being stepped up worldwide. however, the community budget in this area has been reduced over the last two years from €72 million to less than €60 million. this is in addition to a low execution rate, which in 2003 was less than 44%. the reasons are simple: low community co-financing (maximum 50%), the complexity and administrative costs of managing these programmes and a limited list of products covered. the reasons for this are particularly painful for countries such as portugal. the proposed amendments, while allowing for some flexibility, do not provide an effective response to implementation problems or increase existing appropriations.
in writing. i voted in favour of report a6-0008/2004 because i believe that the european union's actions should aim at increasingly effective promotion of european products, while respecting the diversity of european products in terms of production conditions, processing methods, preservation and use. the european union has been implementing and co-financing activities to promote agricultural products through a coherent policy, organised in two regulations: one on promotion in third countries and the other on promotion in the internal market. community policy must add value to national and private initiatives by reinforcing or stimulating the promotion activities of the member states and private enterprises. the need for an active promotion policy is recognized by our major trading partners who have adopted effective promotion policies, with sufficient financial support, to maintain or increase their respective shares in the world market. it is essential that the european union plays a visible and effective role in promoting exports.
in writing. the unanimity achieved in the agri committee demonstrates the consensual way in which the question of information and promotion of agricultural products both in third countries and on the internal market is assessed by this house. in view of the trend towards globalisation of trade, the illegitimate appropriation of designations of origin belonging to european quality products and unfair competition based on cheap labour, this internal and external commitment to the promotion of agricultural products is particularly relevant. i believe that this unusual competitive situation fully justifies the maintenance of community intervention, in a framework of promoting the 'visibility of the intrinsic characteristics and common qualities of european products, while respecting the diversity of these products as regards production conditions, processing methods, preservation and use'. so i voted in favour.
i abstained on this vote because i believe that the process of ratification of the constitutional treaty, which i hope will take place in full, is an eminently sovereign moment for the member states, indeed the most sovereign moment for the member states, since it is on these occasions that decisions are taken which affect their own sovereignty. the european parliament must therefore resist the temptation to express its intention to intervene in the way in which the member states, by virtue of being and necessarily being democracies, carry out this process. i do not think that the council should be asked to define coordinated approaches to the timing of national ratification procedures or to encourage parliamentary control and campaigning practices for the referendums that may take place, or even worse, to issue warnings of any kind, as one of the amendments suggested. as regards the question of the communication strategy, i believe, as stated in recital c of the resolution adopted, that the constitution should be presented to the european citizens of the union in the clearest and most comprehensible way possible, and that the union will therefore finance genuine initiatives for objective, factual, fair and independent information. the peoples, the national parliaments and their representatives will then decide by voting. i thank you very much, mr president, for your attention.
in writing. when such important questions for the future of peoples and states are being debated, it is not right to try to impose the coordination of ratification processes, with a common timetable and strategy, much less to establish guidelines for the dissemination of the content, with the aim of influencing public opinion in accordance with the objective that the majority wants: to approve the draft constitutional treaty. what is required is respect for the national procedures for ratifying the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe and the right of the different political forces to consider the important and serious political and constitutional consequences for the member states and their citizens. it is up to the citizens of the member states or their representatives in the national parliaments to accept or reject this draft treaty. it is therefore unacceptable that more money should be allocated to a propaganda campaign on the european constitution with a view to its adoption. what is needed is a pluralistic debate in which all political forces can participate on an equal footing.
in writing. the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe deserves to be known not only by legal scholars but by all european citizens, whatever their views on it. and of course the best way to involve citizens in this process will be through referendums that motivate campaigns that are enlightening, fair and balanced. i would also stress that there will be no european dimension in this process if it chooses to ignore the national dimension of each member state. and finally, i firmly believe that we all have to show confidence in democracy and the sovereign will of the people, by turning away any sick climate of false drama, to the way of coercion the absurd propaganda of an 'end of europe' in the event of a setback distorts the debate, divides us on the essential points and seriously undermines the serious discussion on the construction of europe. in the face of the very low turnout in the european elections, the only real tragedy would be if public opinion were to drift apart again or if the campaigns conducted in this regard by the european institutions reflected and aggravated rather than combated the much-lauded european democratic deficit. the rejection of amendments 3 and 13, which only required freedom and equality in debate, makes one fear the worst. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. a few days before the european council on 5 november, a major struggle was waged in the european parliament in defence of the freedoms, justice and rights of individuals, especially immigrants. our group has sought to improve the bourlanges report, whether by restoring a balance between the requirements of security and the need to respect fundamental rights in favour of these, or by refusing to resort to european charters and to the mass expulsions of immigrants. it is true that some of our views were approved during the vote, but the majority were rejected, so we still have a very weak report and positions with which we disagree in important areas. i would, however, stress the importance of the adoption of the following amendments: - recognition that immigrants cannot be regarded as temporary labour but are essential to the future of our society; - stresses the importance of the decisions and the framework decision on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and members of their families, adopted by the united nations general assembly on 18 december 1990;- acknowledges the bad experience of refugee camps even on the territory of the member states of the european union. unfortunately, many others were not adopted, so i could not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report because i believe that, in essence, its main focus is on problems of the greatest importance for the future of the union and of all the member states, although some of its points merit my sincere reservations. at a time when europe and each of its 25 member states knows that it can be as much a victim of terrorism as any other region in the world, it is good that concerns about the area of freedom, security and justice do not dissociate the obligations of a humane treatment of immigration from the essential need to secure the union's borders. europe will be the more humane the safer it is. it is not possible to confuse security, which is a good, with securitarianism, which is an evil. finally, i understand that this report recognizes the work of the portuguese commissioner, mr antónio vitorino, whose performance has made an excellent contribution to the idea of a free and secure europe.
in writing. this report follows the resolution i was rapporteur for in the last annual debate on the elsj of the previous legislature. i would like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that, in line with my suggestion, which was then adopted, the libe parliamentary committee has already started to apply a procedure of consultation and cooperation with the national parliaments. i would also remind you that the adoption of the previous resolution coincided with the tragic attacks in madrid, which reminds us that terrorism is the greatest contemporary threat to fundamental rights. this cannot be forgotten or underestimated and the fight against it must be at the forefront of the concerns of policy-makers. i would also like to stress the need for a 'tampere ii': a new european council meeting devoted to building the european school of justice, to set a new agenda in this field, defining with deliberation, political truth and strategic acumen a new realistic programme for the next five years. a balanced assessment and consistent reprogramming of the essj are more important than any excessive voluntarism which ends up creating unnecessary tensions, feeding unrealistic expectations and diverting us from the essential. i had reservations about the text proposed, and i hesitated between voting in favour or abstaining in the general vote, but the adoption, instead of the epp/ed line, of the second part of paragraph 1 (b), paragraph 8, and of amendments nos 1 and 16 led me to vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the european neighbourhood policy warrants special attention to what is happening in the regions close to the current borders of the european union, and that this is compounded by the fact that matters relating to the defence of human rights, democracy and territorial integrity are at stake. this is without prejudice to the doctrine that the line between legitimate and often necessary international political pressure and undesirable interference in the internal affairs of individual countries must never be crossed. in this case, it is a resolution which, without exceeding the powers of the ep or violating this doctrine, is guided by a justified concern for the rights of the civilian population and for the steps to be taken to defend a democratic and free regime.
in writing. georgia has made progress in seeking to establish and protect democratic institutions and the rule of law, and its authorities have declared their intention to follow the european model, even aspiring to join the european union one day. however, this effort has suffered worrying setbacks in the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia, due to restrictions on the exercise of individual suffrage and the mass expulsion of populations by the local authorities, which have resulted in an escalation of violence that i cannot but deplore. i believe that, because of its geostrategic importance, the russian federation has special responsibilities in the region. its political support and the containment of its military units stationed in and around conflict zones are indispensable for stability, as is the demonstration of effective respect for the principles of the territorial integrity of the neighbouring states. in view of the tense situation in abkhazia and south ossetia, i think it is right that an international conference be convened on the conflict and that a peacekeeping force be set up which will actually help to stabilise georgian society. i voted yes.
in writing. as mentioned in the resolution tabled by our group, it is worrying that the new system of eligibility indicated by the commission for the gsp is based solely on market share criteria, without taking into account indicators of development and poverty. it is necessary to develop a system of permanent evaluation, including consultation with the parties concerned, including the trade unions, which will make it possible to react quickly to situations where the objectives of development and the fight against poverty are being distorted and, above all, to combat the real predatory activity of various multinationals towards the least developed countries. we have therefore followed up the criticisms of the commission not only as regards the content but also as regards the way in which it has drawn up the new system and we have insisted on the need for greater support and cooperation with the least developed countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament and the european economic and social committee on 'developing countries, international trade and sustainable development: the role of the community's generalised system of preferences (gsp) for the decade 2006/2015' because i believe that all the efforts needed to simplify and improve community actions for developing countries should be duly supported and monitored by this parliament. i think it is essential to achieve the overall objective of simplifying the grading mechanism, but i wonder whether the commission proposal does not ignore some indicators of development and poverty, which could lead to discrimination against the large poor exporters. i regret that the commission has not acted on the european parliament's recommendation for a thorough assessment of the functioning and impact of the current gsp. i conclude that further clarification of the future consequences of the changes to the gsp is absolutely necessary in order to enable the european parliament to make a more informed and definitive assessment.
in writing. the european union's development aid and external assistance must go beyond direct aid within the framework of development policies, by adopting a more mature strategy, in line with the framework of globalisation. i quote the doha declaration: international trade can and must, i add, play an essential role in promoting economic development and reducing poverty. the community's trade policy must therefore be consistent with the objectives of its policy towards developing countries, aiming in particular at the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development and taking account of criteria such as respect for the environment, the improvement of social conditions, the fight against corruption and the promotion of good governance. i believe that the new system proposed will be more transparent and objective, and that we will have to monitor and evaluate it on a continuing basis. for all these reasons, and in line with many of my previous speeches, which emphasized the solidarity dimension and europe's historical vocation and responsibility in this area, i voted in favour.
mr president, i would like to express my concern here about the protection of the working languages of the european union. i have heard that the dutch presidency has just put forward a proposal to cosac to restrict the working languages at cosac meetings to six. i know that here too, sometimes, under the pretext of reducing costs, some members find it difficult to use their own languages as working languages. in the proposal put forward by the dutch presidency, only six working languages are guaranteed: the six of the largest countries. of course, portuguese is the language of a country that is not one of the largest, and therefore it is called into question. the question i ask, mr president, is this: (the president cut off the speaker)
the restructuring which has just been announced by gm europe, which aims to reduce in the short term 12 000 workers in all european factories and to reduce structural costs by some 600 million dollars a year, is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as stated in the motion recently adopted by the workers of opel, azambuja, portugal, the consolidation measures of gm cannot continue to harm the workers who have fulfilled the conditions of the so-called "olympia agreement" of 2001, since the management of gm europe has been performing in an insufficient and incompetent manner its obligations towards the company, adopting a course of confrontation and penalising the business, demonstrating ignorance of the european car market. the economic success of gm europe cannot depend solely on the importation of american brands and their strategies. it is essential to maintain production in the various countries of europe. we therefore stand in solidarity with the workers in the factories of gm europe in their struggle against the dismissal of workers, against the closure of factories and against the violation of collective agreements and we insist on defending their rights.
the price of a barrel of oil has crossed the psychological threshold of $50 dollars. despite the fluctuations, the trend is upwards. this increase is the result of a complex combination of factors, such as the invasion and occupation of iraq, political and social instability in some major producing countries, natural disasters, increased demand in countries with large populations and high economic growth, and also speculation. the imf points out that a $8/barrel increase will cause a 0.5% drop in economic growth, so even if the intensity of the shock is less than in the 1970s and 1980s, the risks to the world economy and its expected recovery are enormous. the first sectors to suffer from these increases in diesel are transport, fisheries and agriculture. the sectors, particularly the latter, are already in deep crisis. where not only should there be no, or be no, community restrictions on direct public aid to the sectors concerned, but concrete measures and support should be taken at eu level to minimise the socioeconomic impact of the increase in oil prices. however, the central issue is much broader and structural, and results from the unresolved problem of the world economy's energy dependence on a finite resource and a source of speculation.
mr president, you have heard in your speeches that reservations have already been made about certain hearings, based on grounds of competence, on subjective grounds, but also on a clear distortion of what was said in some of those hearings. in the face of this situation, you have decided to give a political answer, while at the same time safeguarding the commission's characteristic of having a single president, a specific political figure and the college, and you have therefore decided to play on this political reality of the commission in order to try to respond to at least some of the relevant criticisms that have been made about this house. and you did it well. it did so well because it refused to commit the original sin of weakening a commission which, for the sake of europe, must be a strong commission and must have strong leadership. clearly, this is not the time for a false crisis. at a time when we have enlargement to consolidate, the lisbon strategy, the turkish question, the question of the financial perspectives and so many other problems, we need everything but a false crisis. your excellency has done everything, and is doing everything, to prevent this crisis. you have done well, continue with that determination, continue with the respect you have shown this parliament and you will continue to have our support. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. president, i voted for your inauguration in july. i therefore regret the difficulty we have in investing the commission which you are now proposing. he thinks his strength comes from this iron arm with parliament. you're wrong. it's not just about tomorrow's vote. the question is what political basis he will take for the next five years. he thinks he's got the support of the council. you're wrong. look how they left you to your fate today. its strength, the strength of the commission, comes from the double confidence it deserves from the council and the european parliament. without the strong support of parliament, your commission will always be a weak commission. in the next 24 hours you can do what you must do to get a solid support in this parliament. if you do not take advantage of this opportunity, do not make yourself a victim or dramatize the possible rejection of the commission. he sees this rejection not as a personal defeat but as a clear mandate to get from the council a commission worthy of the european parliament's support. the choice at this moment is yours, and yours alone. it must know whether it wants the support of this european parliament or whether it wants to remain hostage to the proposals of the national governments and, in particular, the berlusconi government. choose well, and we'll be fine. thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we all know that the commission is composed of a president and 24 commissioners, of different political orientations and different personal convictions, but with the legitimacy of having been proposed by democratically elected governments. it is not surprising, then, that the assessment that each of us makes of each of these commissioners is different. but this evaluation cannot be about one's personal convictions or religious choices. the day that it does, this will not be a parliament, it will be a court of opinion with a morbid taste for censorship. this assessment must be about the competence of the commissioners and it should be remembered that the hearings were overwhelmingly favourable, by more than 80%. the question now is how the european parliament will react to a commission headed by a strong president with a clear vision, who will ensure that the european project is defended and that the balances between the different member states are maintained. we have seen in this debate that president barroso was sensitive to the message of the members and acted accordingly. he has made commitments here, particularly on non-discrimination, and has obtained a letter from each of the commissioners, which makes him the faithful depositary of the confidence of this parliament. the question now is whether parliament is sensitive to president barroso's message and whether it will act accordingly. it is understandable that a commission is not voted in favour because it is not one hundred per cent in agreement with it. but to vote against a commission of 25 because one disagrees with the religious convictions of one of its members is not understandable, it is intolerance. mr buttiglione was sincere when he expressed his convictions, and i believe he was also sincere when he said that he did not confuse his personal convictions with the exercise of his duties. ladies and gentlemen, we must appreciate the commission and its commissioners for their actions, so to make a commission unviable before it takes office because of the religious convictions of one of its members is prejudice. on the contrary, to evaluate it during its term of office is the responsible exercise of our function. finally, mr president barroso, i do not know what the result of tomorrow's vote will be, but as a portuguese i can tell you that you have our vote, and i hope that it is not by twelve votes from the portuguese left in this parliament that this commission is not elected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the giuseppe gargani report (a6-0012/2004) - dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community. i consider the work undertaken by the commission to simplify and clarify community legislation to be fundamental. i also consider this work to be of great value because it preserves the content of the codified acts in their entirety by merely assembling them. it is essential to make community legislation more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand, which will open up new opportunities for him and enable him to benefit from the specific rights conferred on him.
in writing. i share the european commission's concern that, in order to make the european union more accessible to citizens, it is of the utmost importance to simplify community legislation. i believe that this will help ordinary citizens to become better acquainted with their duties and, respectively, with the rights conferred on them. the dispersion of community provisions, many of which have been subject to successive amendments over the years, makes it very difficult to identify the rules in force and requires considerable analytical work, which is practically only accessible to those with a legal background. for these reasons, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of community legislation, it seems to me that, as defined in 1987 by the european commission and in 1992 by the edinburgh european council, it is essential to codify community rules. i therefore support the aim of this proposal, which is to codify council directive 76/464/eec of 4 may 1976 on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community, replacing the previous legislative acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the giuseppe gargani report (a6-0011/2004) - control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs on a proposal for a council directive establishing minimum community measures for the control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs (codified version). i consider the work undertaken by the commission to simplify and clarify community legislation to be fundamental. i also consider this work to be of great value because it preserves the content of the codified acts in their entirety by merely assembling them. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council directive 95/70/ec of 22 december 1995 laying down minimum community measures for the control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs. the new directive will replace the various acts incorporated in it. it is essential to make community legislation more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand, which will open up new opportunities for him and enable him to benefit from the specific rights conferred on him.
in writing. i reiterate the conviction expressed by the european commission that the simplification of community legislation will lead to a european union that is more accessible to citizens who are more aware of their duties and rights. the dispersion of community provisions, many of which have been subject to successive amendments over the years, makes it very difficult to identify the rules in force and requires considerable analytical work, which is practically only accessible to persons with a legal background. for these reasons, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of community legislation, it seems to me that, as defined in 1987 by the european commission and in 1992 by the edinburgh european council, it is essential to codify community rules, i therefore support the aim of this proposal, as i did with directive 76/464/eec, which is to codify council directive 95/70/ec of 22 december 1995 laying down minimum community measures for the control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs, replacing the acts incorporated into it, which are currently separate pieces of legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the elmar brok report (a6-0023/2004) - partnership and cooperation agreements on the proposals for council and commission decisions on the conclusion of protocols to the partnership and cooperation agreements between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, moldova, russia, ukraine, uzbekistan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. these partnership and cooperation agreements (pcas) are 'mixed' agreements which entered into force before the last enlargement of the union and which therefore require a protocol to be added to that agreement allowing the accession of the 10 new member states to the agreement. the council authorized the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the community and its member states, with these countries with a view to concluding protocols to the partnership and cooperation agreements.
in writing. this report seeks to solve a problem which has arisen from the council's failure to respond to the creation of a new regulation in this area of aid to uprooted populations in latin america and asia. as the current regulation expires at the end of the year, it needs to be extended as it provides for aid to some of the most vulnerable groups in the world - those forced to leave their homes as a result of armed conflict. the objective of the aid is, inter alia, to promote the voluntary return and reintegration of these groups into their host communities, their places of origin or to reconcile parties to a conflict and to assist uprooted populations. although we voted in favour of the report, which aims to limit its application to the end of 2006, requiring a new overall procedure and a report from the european commission on the application of the regulation, there are issues to be highlighted: - the council's lack of attention to aid and cooperation problems; - the contradiction in the positions of the european commission, which on the one hand proposes the extension of the regulation for an indefinite period, but on the other hand only allocates funds until 2006; - the contradictions between the council and the commission on aid for cooperation and development, which often see their funds reduced by transfers for aid for the reconstruction of countries... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of the luisa morgantini report (a6-0018/2004) - aid to uprooted people in developing countries in latin america and asia on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2130/2001 on action in the field of aid to uprooted people in developing countries in latin america and asia. i believe that the work done by the european community in helping the uprooted populations in the developing countries of latin america and asia is fundamental. regulation (ec) no 2130/2001 of 29 october 2001 provides for aid to some of the most vulnerable groups in the world those forced to leave their homes as a result of armed conflict. this regulation expires on 31 december 2004. the regulation provides that its extension is conditional on the possibility of 'integrating this single framework regulation for asia and latin america'. this inconvenience can be avoided by reducing the period of validity to two years, namely 2005 and 2006. i consider this amendment essential for the continuation of the community's work with these populations.
in writing. i welcome the support shown by the deve parliamentary committee to the european commission proposal to extend the application of the existing regulation on uprooted populations (refugees, displaced persons who have been forced to seek refuge outside their region of origin, and former refugees or displaced persons) and 'demobilized former combatants'. this instrument, which forms part of the wider policy of development assistance and aid of the european union, is of the utmost importance and is often the only and last hope of thousands of people in particularly precarious situations. i also welcome the trend in recent years of gradual increases in appropriations. experience shows that such actions play an important role in preventing conflict or in reconciling the parties to a conflict, or in helping uprooted populations or demobilised former combatants to regain their property and property rights, often providing the last hope for a new beginning.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe, as it says, that after five years, the emu project can still be considered a great success thanks in large measure to the work of the ecb and the european monetary institute that preceded it. and it should also be recognised because of the commitment of member states, particularly member states like portugal, which have made a worthwhile effort to comply with the stability and growth pact. on the other hand, and in line with what is said in the report, i recognize that the weaknesses of the european economy are not linked to its monetary policy but mainly to the lack of structural reforms in the direction of greater international and global competitiveness.
in writing. the present report, reinforced by the final version rejected by the rapporteur, makes emu a 'success story' and unconditionally supports the monetary orthodoxy applied by the ecb, and that is not the story of reality as we interpret it. so we reject it. success in macroeconomic stability is achieved when it is proven that recent years have been marked by weak economic and employment growth, by the shifting of productivity gains from workers to employers; when high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequality persist within the eu; when restrictive monetary and fiscal policies have had negative consequences for economic growth and employment, rather than contributing to economic recovery and combating unemployment. the eu is far from a homogeneous economic area, with considerable disparities between member states in terms of the level of economic and regional development, inflation and unemployment, which have been exacerbated by the single monetary policy, and have led to the costs of economic adjustment being borne by wages and employment, workers and populations. the inflationary effects of the euro on basic goods and bank charges are also to be borne in mind. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr van miert. i agree that the ecb has been a factor of institutional and economic stability, and has thus fulfilled the essence of its mission. however, it seems increasingly peaceful - even in view of the increasing importance attached to this body - that its mandate also includes 'specific support for the lisbon objectives'. in this respect, it will be important to pursue more actively monetary and exchange rate policies which promote the objectives of full employment based on competitiveness, support investment, or combat the effects on the market of the extreme high oil prices. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in fact, "as long as this continues, the currency will never truly be 'one'. i regret that the rapporteur has withdrawn from the resolution adopted at the time of the final vote, and it is strange that he has only done so at that time, because the text adopted does not differ much from what the parliamentary committee had already adopted.
mr president, i too would like to join in the words of appreciation for the work done by our rapporteurs, mr garriga and mr jensen, and i would particularly like to join in the words of congratulation to our commissioner, mrs michaela schreyer, for the excellent work she has done, which, contrary to what we have heard in this chamber, has not led to any astronomical increase in the budget, quite the contrary, and has succeeded in achieving much of what we set out to do, while maintaining considerable budgetary discipline. and so, whether we say goodbye this week or we say goodbye for some time, i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the commissioner and wish her the best for the future. i would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the commissioner-to-be who is to take office (although it is not yet clear when she will take office) has already given us assurances that she will continue the work that is being done and has given some indications of her commitment which i find extremely satisfactory and which make me think that we will continue along the path we have followed so far. and it is essential that in the field of the financial perspective we understand the need to give a calm witness, the need not to give in to the temptation to want to discuss everything again, to start from scratch. that would be serious for the defence of our interests, it would be serious for the construction of europe. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but stress the importance of this point. we will continue the work we have done so far with a new commission, but without ever forgetting all that we have already built together. thank you very much.
mr president, we are very concerned about the implementation and revision of the lisbon agenda, which was adopted in march 2000. today, contrary to the promise, we have 20 million unemployed and some 70 million people at risk of poverty. these are unacceptable numbers. and if it is true that the lisbon agenda was a great failure, as president prodi recently said at the end of his term, it was only in terms of the expectations and promises he made on the social front with regard to full employment and social inclusion and with regard to knowledge and research, because in the areas of interest to the economic and financial groups this did not happen. liberalisation and privatisation in key sectors such as energy, post, telecommunications, essential public services and the financial sector have advanced, as have more and more legislative proposals in areas which call into question fundamental human rights and workers' rights, notably the proposal for a directive aimed at creating an internal market in services, i.e. more privatisation, and the backward and inadmissible proposal for a directive on working time. a review of the lisbon agenda is therefore needed to change its content and give priority to the creation of jobs with rights and the necessary social inclusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, in the 1980s jacques delors gave the european project a new impetus, a new vision, when he proposed the completion of the internal market and a single currency. in 2000, at the lisbon summit, the european union again set itself a challenge for the next decade: to become the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. but as we enter 2005, halfway through the calendar, the balance is not a happy one. progress is slow and in a few days' time wim kok will present his mid-term evaluation report, a highlight of the agenda for the next european summit in november. it is not for the house to comment on the conclusions of this interim report. however, i would like to draw attention to two points which i consider to be of the greatest importance. the first has to do with the fact that when a strategy aims to touch everything, it usually touches nothing. it is therefore appropriate to establish clear priorities within the defined strategy. it is not a question of favouring the economic side of the strategy to the detriment of its social or environmental side, or vice versa. it is a question of defining political priorities in all its aspects. these are difficult choices, but they are inevitable. the second point is to emphasize that the lisbon strategy cannot be seen as the sole responsibility of the european union. success will depend to a large extent on the capacity and commitment of member states to the structural reforms they will have to undertake, which means that they will have to show a clear political will to take a leading role at world level. i still believe that the objectives of the lisbon strategy are neither utopian nor unrealizable. by the way, who would have believed in the 1980s that more than three hundred million europeans would now use a single currency? as kohl said, the visionaries ended up being the realists. a final word, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome the position taken by the president of the next european commission (i hope) in making the lisbon strategy a priority for his mandate.
the next item is the debate on the report (b6-0017/2004). we are discussing the questions to the council today.
since they concern similar matters, questions 3, 4 and 5 follow:
we are now approaching the statutory closing time of this question time. i see that there are still at least three members who are registered for the next three questions. i would ask the council to extend its presence for a few more minutes to answer one or two more questions. in that case, question time is closed. i apologize to mr newton dunn, mr claude moraes and mrs malmström, who are here in the chamber, but the council has said that it has urgent business and cannot stay any longer.
the time allotted for question time has now expired and questions nos 14 to 33 will be answered in writing, see annex "question time". question time is closed.
as i said, question time is closed, the council must leave.
mr president, commissioner, the phenomenon of poverty has no gender. it is not exclusive to women, but it particularly affects women. women are paid lower wages and have less social protection. they are the last to access a real job and the first to be thrown into unemployment. the economic dependence of women conditions their own freedom. and what about the single mothers in poverty, how many of them without food to feed their children, without a roof over their heads, and without government support to live with a modicum of dignity? these are true heroes, these single mothers that mr. buttiglione has decided to insult. fortunately, the european parliament has given the appropriate response and i am glad to have heard mrs schreyer say that we must respect single mothers. i hope that mr barroso will bear this in mind in the future. everything is connected: poverty, disease, illiteracy, school failure, infant and maternal mortality, urban and environmental degradation, social discrimination, lack of vocational qualifications, unemployment, moral promiscuity, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings. every year, some 700,000 women and children are caught in the net of human traffickers. this shocking figure cannot leave the european institutions indifferent. poverty is the reason why more and more children are being abandoned, raped, trafficked, beaten, and even killed by their own parents. everything is connected. poverty and death from illegal abortion, as we have recently demonstrated here in the case of the women on waves boat. we cannot ignore the fact that it is the most deprived women who suffer the most from the consequences of the criminalisation of voluntary termination of pregnancy. poor women pay with their health and even their lives for unjust laws that prevent them from resorting to voluntary termination of pregnancy in safe and hygienic conditions. this is the case in ireland, poland and portugal. the fight against women's social exclusion requires specific measures, as is advocated in the lisbon strategy. it is important to give the lisbon strategy an updated reading from a gender perspective. the europe we want and deserve must be more united, more just and more humane for women too.
mr president, although the official figures are scarce, very late and there is no information even by gender on the approximately 70 million people at risk of relative poverty in the european union of 25, we all know that poverty and social exclusion affect women fundamentally, whether because they are elderly and receive the lowest pensions and pensions, whether because they are young or middle-aged and unemployed or have precarious work without rights or poor pay, whether because they are immigrants or single mothers. the situation becomes even more serious when several of these situations are accumulated. some statistics give an idea of the seriousness of this situation, which, however, varies greatly from one country to another. for example, in the european union, of the approximately 20 million unemployed, more than 51% are women, which means that unemployment, like poverty, has a female face and seriously affects women who are victims of restructuring and relocation by multinationals, as is the case in my country, portugal. but also as regards unemployment, the latest eurostat data show that on average in the 25 member states of the european union only 38% of permanent jobs are held by women, which means that the majority of women's employment is precarious. even so, the overall employment rate for women is only 55 percent, while that for men is 71 percent. so it is not enough to defend the principle of equality. a thorough review of community policies is required, giving priority to employment, social inclusion and the fight against discrimination, which implies a change in the financial and monetary policies of the european central bank and the stability pact, replacing it with a development, employment and social inclusion pact. the lisbon strategy also calls for changes in competition and internal market policy to ensure access for all to quality public services, including education, training, health, social protection and public transport and housing, promoting social inclusion and economic cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr salvador garriga polledo (a6-0021/2004) - draft general budget 2005 (section iii), with amendments, because i agree with the substance of the assessments and proposals presented, particularly when it states that 'the budget for 2005 should reflect the following political priorities and objectives: lisbon strategy: given the desire for the eu budget to become an effective instrument for economic growth, sustainable development and job creation; jai: the need for a european response to the new challenges of cooperation on immigration, asylum and migration and terrorism and security; information policy: the need to increase the budgetary effort in view of the low turnout in the last european elections, the successive enlargements of the eu and the european constitutional debate; cohesion policy: the 2005 budget should also continue to contribute to cohesion and to strengthening the union's external role. on the other hand, i also find it laudable that 'some member states have not been able to use the funds for rural development ...' (e) calls on the commission to examine carefully proposals which could help to overcome these situations.
in writing. we consider it unacceptable that the draft budget for 2005 should be less than 1% of community gni, when the own resources ceiling for the period 2000-2006 is 1.24% of gni (1.27% of gnp) which is clearly insufficient for the serious objectives of economic and social cohesion of an eu. we therefore denounced the council's strategy of conditioning the debate on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13 by setting a draft budget below 1% of community gni, in clear accordance with the 'charter of the six', and also by responding to the constraints of the stability pact. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. it regrets that the main priorities are a mythified and mystifying lisbon strategy, terrorism and information policy, that the priorities are increasingly approaching the objectives of a so-called unratified 'european constitution' and an unapproved proposal for a political and financial framework, when the amounts to be made available through the community budget should enable the eu to achieve ratified and approved essential and strategic objectives, such as improving the living conditions of the population, promoting economic and social cohesion, sustainable development, employment and promoting external relations of cooperation with the least developed countries.
in writing. in this first draft of the general budget of the european union (or preliminary draft gbs) for 2005, it is already possible to surprise some of the strongest lines. without prejudice to the presentation of future corrections, it can be concluded that a central concern of institutional strengthening (increase in appropriations allocated to expenditure on staff in active employment; increase in administrative appropriations; increase in appropriations for financial control) eventually runs through this budget. the council's draft budget for 2005 is, unfortunately, equal to 1.00% of the gross national income (gni) of the 25 eu member states, continuing the pressure to lower the 1.24% ceiling publicly advocated by several member states, which runs counter to the recent accession of 10 new member states and attempts to move forward with institutional europe. i support in this budget the laudable concern for institutional operability at the level of the various policies, although i believe that we are still far from the real ambition of sustainability, prosperity and integration in which citizens see themselves.
in writing. the budgetary process in the eu has in the past shown a lag between the community's political priorities and their respective financing, leading to some opacity. the commission has adopted a new activity-based management (abm) approach, following pressure from the ep. the idea is good and simple. the first step is to identify the activities to be carried out in accordance with the political priorities and then to allocate the appropriate human and financial resources. the adoption of this method would seem to make it easier to carry out a rigorous assessment of the consequences of certain policies and actions. despite the efforts already made, i have to say that the quality of the declarations of activity is poor and that they are of little use to the budgetary process. they are far from being at a desirable level. information is diffuse, poorly quantified and sometimes omitted in practical information. most of the targets and their indicators are not measurable and their implications for human and financial resources are not well defined. what was fundamental was not reached. if everything that is not measured cannot be managed, there is still no clear correspondence between the objectives and targets and the indicators chosen to measure the degree of achievement of those objectives. there is therefore a long way to go on this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs anne elisabet jensen (a6-0020/2004) - draft general budget 2005 (other sections), with the amendments which i consider most useful, because i believe that, in essence, the community institutions are provided with the financial means necessary to develop their activities, bearing in mind in particular the needs resulting from the enlargement process, the financial impact of which will be felt most strongly in the 2006 budgetary year. i am also concerned about what i believe is the duty of the institutions to manage public money, which is taxpayers' money, carefully and with discretion.
in writing. the 2005 budget will be the first to cover 25 member states for one year and the last before the presentation of the next financial perspective, so it is important that it promotes a rapid and effective integration of the new member states in all areas. i regret some cuts in appropriations and the lack of ambition in the budgetary year, especially at a time of a sharp decline in the confidence of european citizens in the institutions - community or national - as guarantors of prosperity and well-being, at a time of difficulties in the expectations of economic recovery and when the clamor is growing about the mirage in which the implementation of the lisbon strategy has become. as i have often written, the europe our founding fathers dreamed of, the europe our citizens aspire to, is a europe of peace, of prosperity, where the important thing is to share, to share values and interests; a genuine internal market of prosperity; a europe at the service of well-being, ambitious in this dimension, and not a megalomaniacal, distant or self-sufficient superstructure. i expect much better from the 2007-13 financial perspective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on supplementary macrofinancial assistance to bosnia and herzegovina because i believe that in order to continue its efforts to stabilise and reform the economy, bosnia and herzegovina still needs continued financial support from the community and other bilateral and multilateral donors. bosnia and herzegovina has committed itself to continuing its path of economic stabilisation reforms. i believe it is essential that the european union continues to pursue its objective of assisting in supporting the balance of payments and helping to alleviate the country's external financial constraints, as well as mitigating the effects of the reforms carried out and laying the foundations for common institutions and policies in accordance with the dayton peace agreement.
in writing. the terrible civil war's marks are still evident in the bosnian territory. nevertheless, there is some social tranquility and institutional normality in the country which need to be encouraged and supported by the union. given that the implementation of political reforms in bosnia and herzegovina has taken longer than envisaged by council decision 2002/883/ec, i understand the application of the urgency procedure to this case. it is indeed necessary to amend that decision in order to allow for the payment of the third instalment of the additional macro-financial assistance to that country by extending its period of application, thereby strengthening its economic sustainability and the ongoing institutional reform. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i believe that following the political changes in serbia and montenegro (scg, formerly the 'federal republic of yugoslavia') at the end of 2000, the authorities in the country have achieved remarkable results in terms of economic reforms and stabilisation. it is essential that the european union continues to support all efforts for peace and stability in this region. these countries have been doing well in terms of stability and the commission's missions on the ground have been meeting with encouraging developments. macroeconomic stability has been achieved and maintained and major structural reforms have been initiated. progress has been made in privatising socially owned enterprises through auctions and tenders, and the restructuring of the industrial and financial sectors has been initiated. the economic reform programme has received additional support through the granting of ec macro-financial assistance packages, which have been implemented pending the fulfilment of agreed economic and structural policy conditions.
in writing. the economic, social and political stability of serbia is a key factor in the pacification and normalisation of relations between the balkan states, which today look to the european union as a source of support and hope. it should be noted that serbia has suffered particularly from the instability resulting from a post-war situation and the disintegration of its sphere of influence. this was considerably aggravated by the barbaric assassination of prime minister zoran djindjic in march last year, which inevitably contributed to delaying the promising pace of reforms that had been initiated and that the new government has sought to resume. the delay prevented the implementation of the third instalment and the additional assistance within the deadlines set by directive 2002/882/ec. it is therefore urgent to set a new ceiling to allow its effective and fruitful application, so as to contribute to ensuring the sustainability of the balance of payments and the strengthening of the reserves of serbia and montenegro. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the szabolcs fazakas report (a6-0015/2004) - appointment of a member of the european court of auditors, as i consider that the appointment of mr kikis kazamias to this important body of the european union is positive, in particular in view of his cv and the answers he has given to the questions put by the committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and animal feedingstuffs. i believe that parliament must remain attentive to all public health issues and that any decision by parliament and the council to prohibit the feeding of processed animal protein from farmed animals kept, fattened or raised for food production to member states should be given very careful consideration. the commission's proposals should therefore be reassessed and parliament's well-founded doubts about the existence of a sufficient number of specialised technicians with experience of laboratory work in the member states of the european union should be taken seriously.
in writing. in a subject as delicate as spongiform encephalopathies, and because of the enormous impact that knowledge and dissemination of this disease has had in recent years on european public opinion, causing alarm and radical changes in the diet, this initiative by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is, of course, to be commended. the technical complexity and the doubts still raised by the scientific community require the most rigorous monitoring. this motion for a resolution gives substance to this duty, which is, moreover, a further manifestation of what our citizens are most concerned about and concerned about: the highest possible level of protection of public health. it is also the climate of legitimate and deep public distrust which makes it reasonable to impose the most stringent controls and the most stringent conditions for placing on the market the different feed solutions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr emilio menéndez del valle on eu-india relations. i consider the eu's relationship with india to be fundamental, given the country's geostrategic importance and the role it can play in a multilateral world order. its status as the world's largest multilateral democracy and its sharing with eu member states of the definition of common values, free and fair elections, respect for the rule of law, independence of the judiciary and respect for minorities allow for the continuous deepening of relations between the two partners. given the importance of india, with its diversity of religions, cultures, ethnicities and languages, and its importance for dialogue between civilizations, the decision to raise eu-india relations to the level of a strategic partnership seems to me to be fundamental in the eu's external relations. the promotion of an effective multilateral approach requires practical measures that firmly support closer ties between the eu and india. mutual respect and partnership will find their best expression in an open dialogue on all issues, including those which give rise to divergent views.
in writing. the geostrategic importance that india assumes in the global context is enormous. the world's largest democracy is the driving force of the subcontinent in which it is situated and, with its human and cultural wealth, is of great interest to a european union that wants to be open to the world. history has allowed some member states, such as portugal, to have special links and relations with india. i believe that this could be a common advantage, fully justifying the union's support for its maintenance and strengthening. i am convinced that by fostering and rebuilding links from the past, by using the means of affection, language and culture that we have in common, we will be able to strengthen and strengthen the encounter between the peoples of europe and the people of india. in this connection, i believe it is important not only to set up the eu-india centre for indian studies, but also to promote european cultural initiatives in india, with particular emphasis on projects that recover and invent the common past. i would like to point out the remarkable competence of many indian staff and consider it useful to promote exchanges and the exchange of experience at technical, academic and professional level. i voted in favour of the draft recommendation, warning that the standardisation of eu-india relations should not replace or weaken bilateral relations with member states, but rather complement them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - results of the referendum and elections in belarus, in order to echo the concern of those who consider that the situation in that country is extremely serious in terms of human rights violations, and to join the international community in the understanding that the recent 'elections and hostage' that took place there were neither free nor fair. our duty is to denounce electoral fraud and to repudiate all those who act against attempts to exercise the right to liberty. the situation in belarus, the european union's neighbour, is extremely serious and requires the union to pay the greatest attention to it, but also to be able to develop the necessary efforts to support, as on other similar occasions, attempts at democratic reaction, in particular by giving young people from belarus the opportunity to study in countries of the european union.
in writing. i am appalled by the climate of coercion and repression in belarus, where freedom and democracy are being threatened every day. i consider it intolerable that a state should place its structure at the service of arbitrariness and monolithicism, in flagrant violation of pluralism and civil rights. the violence against members of the democratic opposition, the suppression of the right to protest and the unprecedented way in which electoral processes are conducted show how much more needs to be done for human rights on our own continent. in fact, given that the minimum requirements of freedom and justice that must govern these events are not met, there are more than legitimate doubts about the validity of the elections and the plebiscite (officially called referendum) held in the meantime. the desire of president lukashenko to remain in power and his disregard for the fundamental laws of belarus and the rights of its citizens deserve the care and firm action of the european union, which, in various ways, means and methods, must contribute to the full establishment of a democratic rule of law in that country. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the forthcoming elections in ukraine because i believe that the approach of an important electoral event in ukraine, where the democratic process is still only a hope, obliges us to pay the greatest attention to the development of this process, to clearly repudiate attempts to make its progress towards genuine democracy unfeasible, to express the deepest disgust at the violations of fundamental rights that have already occurred and to wish that a result result of free and democratic elections will bring ukraine closer to the european union.
in writing. a neighbouring state of the geostrategic importance of ukraine deserves our particular attention, given that there is a large ukrainian community in several member states of the union, such as portugal. in the context of the presidential election campaign, there have been situations recently which have raised fears of a setback on the road to the stabilisation of a state which claims to be a state governed by the rule of law and democracy. the attempts to control the media, in particular the closure of channel 5, and the many restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly are worrying signs of this and deserve our condemnation. it is not by the strength of the most basic civic rights that ukraine will progress on the path to full participatory democracy but rather by the adoption of high standards and consistent practices of respect for the person, pluralism and freedom. it is necessary to demonstrate that freedom and justice are present not only in the forthcoming elections but, above all, in all the political practice of the state. in this still transitional phase of ukrainian political life, the european union can play an important role in advising and supporting the positive measures which have nevertheless been taken by the ukrainian state and also in firmly condemning practices which recall the old totalitarian communist card. i voted yes.
in writing. our vote on this resolution is justified by the position it expressly advocates for the future of relations between the eu and belarus. the proposals put forward are characterised by clear interference, such as the adoption of 'a set of specific sanctions against belarus', support for 'the broadcasting of radio information' or 'municipalities opposed to the regime'. the proposals are all the more unacceptable when, once again, we see the application of a double standard in assessing the situation in third countries, the logic of 'two weights and two measures' for 'friends' and 'others'. such measures have never been proposed or applied to a state which militarily occupies part of an eu member state, which does not comply with international law and disrespects un resolutions, which has thousands of political prisoners in prison, which rejects the ancestral cultural rights of a people. such measures have never been proposed or applied to another state which occupies a territory militarily and daily attacks in the most brutal way the most elementary rights of an entire people, which disrespects in the most frontal way numerous un resolutions, which builds a wall beyond its borders, which has for more than three years kept a president surrounded by military forces.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - naval sonar. i believe that the growing concern of the public and the scientific community following a documented series of mass cetacean deaths associated with the use of active high intensity and medium frequency sonar in coastal environments should imply a thorough investigation into the reasons for these events. the commission should promote studies on the potential impact on the marine environment of the installation of active high-intensity marine sonar and provide an assessment - based on information from member states - of the effects of current practices on eu seas. the development of international agreements to regulate noise levels in the world's oceans could be a key measure to regulate and limit the adverse impact of anthropogenic sonar on marine mammals and fish.
in writing. i share mr florenz's concern about the harmful effects of high-intensity sonar on the environment. in fact, as mr florenz said in his appeal to the european commission, acknowledged experts in the field have expressed serious concerns in this respect, in particular because these sonars can be fatal for cetaceans such as whales and dolphins. this is acknowledged by a study published by spanish and british experts. given that the preservation, protection and improvement of the environment, including the preservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, are essential objectives of general interest for the community and that, alongside economic, social, cultural and regional requirements, environmental protection contributes to the overall objective of sustainable development, i believe that the commission should take action in this area. i therefore reiterate the concerns raised and call on the european commission to take action, in particular to implement directive 92/43/eec on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora.
on behalf of the group. i would like to add to the wise words just now spoken by our colleague mr posselt, as well as by the overwhelming majority of those who have spoken before, an element which seems to me decisive, namely the need, the urgency, the imperative to remove the name of the 'people's mujahedeen' from the list of terrorist organisations. finally, we have in our hands, as reported by agence france presse, the proof that this designation of 'terrorist organisation' exists only as a bargaining mechanism with iran, as a concession to the demands of the iranian regime, which has no basis in verifiable facts, which is an affront to justice, which is an affront to the truth, which is an affront to all those who fight for peace and freedom in this noble country that is iran. i would therefore like to make this appeal to the european institutions and to all our colleagues: the immediate removal of the people's mujahedeen from the list of terrorist organizations is absolutely necessary.
mr president, i would like to make one point. i had the opportunity to be received by the council on relations between the european union and iran, and i heard firsthand that the council considered this dialogue to be frozen. i am therefore absolutely surprised to see the commission here, quite unintentionally, wanting to revive what is nothing more than a completely failed project and criticizing our colleagues who have spoken very well on this subject.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our group's position is very clear and very firm on this matter. on the one hand, we are aware of the threat of contemporary terrorism, of how terrible global terrorism is, of the challenges it poses and that, as i have said many times, it is the greatest contemporary threat to human rights and fundamental rights. we reaffirm our solidarity with the victims of the terrible terrorist attacks, in particular those of 11 september and 11 march in madrid. we are aware that it is the first duty of democracies to combat terrorism and dismantle its networks. that said, we cannot contradict the very values we want to defend and affirm, and we must be able to demonstrate them in all circumstances, particularly on this front. we therefore deplore and condemn the cases of ill-treatment and inhuman treatment of prisoners, particularly those which have now been reported. we regret that we have to vote on this resolution, but in the face of the evidence that has come to light, we cannot do otherwise because we must always be consistent in asserting our values and our rights. we are convinced that this is also the sense of the american culture to which we are so closely linked. we look back at the decisions and recommendations of the supreme court and, referring to the new york times report, we would like to see strict adherence to the directives of president bush and secretary rumsfeld that ill-treatment should not be committed, that complaints that have come to light should be investigated and that all prisoners should be brought to a fair trial and treated in accordance with the values we affirm and the fundamental rights we defend.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to speak about oswaldo paya. as you know, he was awarded the sakharov prize in 2002 and in the last year alone he has been prevented four times by the fidel castro regime from coming here to discuss with us the serious human rights situation in his country, cuba. i have been informed that last friday oswaldo paya wrote a letter to the president and that he also sent that letter to president prodi, commissioners nielsen and patten and to president-designate barroso. the intention is that this letter should be distributed to all members, i have heard. it was very important that this distribution should be made, because tomorrow we are going to discuss the situation in cuba. it is also said that the council will be discussing it in the next few days. it is said that there is a conspiracy by some governments against human rights in cuba and against the hope of democracy in that friendly country. it is regrettable that this conspiracy continues without hearing the views of the cuban democrats. so my question is whether the president has received this letter, whether he will distribute it to us and i would also ask him to forward it to the dutch presidency and the council. thank you very much.
i would like to thank the presidency, and in particular mr patten, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. we are very sorry that the european union still needed its way. the proliferation of nuclear weapons raises apocalyptic scenarios, while the inflammation of conflicts by the conventional arms trade is causing incalculable damage to the development of many peoples, as well as the death and violation of the human rights of millions of civilians throughout the world. the strategic security doctrine adopted by the european union identifies regional instability, failed states, organised crime and international terrorism as the main threats we have to face. all of these are threats that uncontrolled arms exports to destinations outside the european union can foster. in recent years there has been an effort by the member states of the european union to improve the control of conventional arms exports originating in or transiting through european space. but there's still a lot to do! we socialists believe that it is urgent to make the code of conduct for arms exports mandatory and to adopt national and european legislation to increase the transparency of arms brokering. the scope of the ban on the export of certain instruments, such as those used for torture or anti-personnel mines, should be extended. the sale of arms to governments or groups in conflict zones should be more closely monitored, taking into account information gathered by the monitoring mechanisms established by the un security council for the enforcement of arms embargoes. the european union governments have an undeniable responsibility here to advance the rules of domestic law to ensure that companies and individuals who violate arms embargoes decreed by the european union or the united nations security council are punished in an exemplary manner. we socialists support measures which can mitigate the effects of the arms trade, such as the creation of a tax to assist victims of armed conflict and to combat poverty, as was recently proposed at the current united nations general assembly. the european union can and must go further. with steps such as those identified in this resolution - which we will vote for - and extending the binding application of the code of conduct not only to the partners of enlarged europe but also to the new neighbours, so that there is a european common arms market in which the newly created european armaments agency has a role in monitoring and regulating. we socialists have specifically tabled amendments to this motion for a resolution urging the council and the member states to maintain the arms embargo on the people's republic of china and to ensure a coherent approach to arms embargoes in general. the embargo was imposed in the wake of the tiananmen massacre and has been maintained ever since in the face of the serious human rights problems that persist in china despite its opening up to the outside world and extraordinary economic growth. in 2003, the european parliament took a specific position on this issue in a resolution and recommended that the embargo be maintained. the reports of the european parliament, as well as those of various human rights ngos, have year after year shown great concern at the serious violation of human rights in china and tibet. a revelation about the suitability of the arms embargo as a tool to press for meaningful change cannot lead to the lifting of the arms embargo, at least as long as there is no binding code of conduct on the export of arms and of instruments which could be used for internal repression and torture. the whole system must be consistent in this area and the recent decision on libya to lift the arms embargo against that country is inconsistent and exposes the european union to accusations of 'double standards'.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, the european union has always shown itself to be in favour of the accession of a reunified cyprus. however, despite diplomatic efforts, this was not possible, given the negative result of the popular consultation organised in april 2004. to avoid further isolation of the turkish cypriot territory and to strengthen contacts between the two communities, the european commission has put forward a proposal to establish an economic development instrument for the community of eur 259 million for the period 2004-06. the failure to reach a political agreement on the accession of the reunified cyprus to the european union has raised a number of legal and budgetary questions. there is no heading which allows direct allocation of community funds to a member state whose government does not exercise its authority effectively over part of its territory. i would remind you that the republic of northern cyprus has not been internationally recognised and cannot therefore be regarded as a state. this lack of budgetary justification means that this funding can only be read in parallel with draft amending budget no 10/2004. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, i have analysed the present proposal from the european commission, which this time argues that the money is intended to finance activities similar to pre-accession activities, which falls within the scope of budget category 7. without going into the political aspect of the debate, i did, however, agree with the financial implications of this proposal for the financial perspective, although it is not yet entirely clear to which heading this financial support will be allocated. i have therefore voluntarily left open the most appropriate choice of budgetary justification, a task which will be examined by the budgetary authority as soon as the council of ministers has decided to submit a proposal for a text. i could not conclude this speech, mr president, without drawing the attention of this house to the difficulties it has had in giving a financial opinion on a text the most important part of which has not even been agreed by the council. thank you very much.
mr president, there are certain maneuvers by governments and members of parliament which are difficult to understand for two reasons: firstly, because they are not always clear and often smell of complicity. secondly, because they are maneuvers that confront the insistent, repeated, dramatic demands of those who struggle peacefully and who suffer in cuba. these are astonishing maneuvers and so typical of a desire to betray our 2002 sakharov prize that they remind me of a poem by a great lady of portuguese poetry, sofia de melo breyner, who died a few weeks ago: "i weep for today". "we will never cry enough when we see the creative gesture blocked. we shall never weep enough when we see that he who dares to fight is destroyed by contempt, by insidiousness, by poisons, and by other ways which we know are so wise, so subtle and so expert that they cannot even be well described". when we talk about cuba and the cuban regime, today and tomorrow we have to ask ourselves: what kind of parliament is this, a parliament of freedom or a parliament of repression, a parliament of citizens or a parliament of tyrants? we'll have to answer that. we do not speak for ourselves, but for specific people who are fighting and suffering for freedom and democracy. this is not a partisan issue; it is a fundamental human and political issue for real people, who are suffering, watching and listening to us in cuba: bárbaro sevilla garcía, 22, executed; lorenzo copello castillo, 30, executed; jorge luis martínez izak, 40, executed; víctor rolando arroyo carmona, sentenced to 26 years in prison; miguel galbán gutiérrez, sentenced to 26 years in prison; jorge vero castañeda, sentenced to 20 years in prison; pablo pacheco ávila, sentenced to 20 years in prison. mr president, there is no time now to read all the names of the dozens of victims of the tragic march of 2003, and of their families, friends and colleagues. there's so many of them, there's no time. what do you mean, you don't have time to name them all? it means that it is not time to change our european policy, but that fidel castro and the cuban regime change theirs. that's what it takes. first amnesty, then dialogue. this is the way to go.
mr president, i would like to comment on the council's decisions on iraq. in my opinion, the package that has been approved is expensive and useless. and fallujah is their early defeat. fallujah is not just another human tragedy, another 1,500 dead, thousands more injured, tens of thousands more displaced, fallujah is all of this and it is also the graveyard of the january elections. because of fallujah, neither the sunnis nor the shiites, who oppose the occupation, will go to the polls. in the january elections, nothing is guaranteed, neither census nor the incorporation of the opposition, nor the mobility and security of candidates and voters. the iraqi electoral stage cannot be the american or british tanks. that's not how you rebuild hope or regain trust. on the contrary, elections must be europe's priority in palestine, and the death of arafat makes it urgent that a new leadership be the undisputed expression of the will of its people. europe must therefore be ready to monitor the whole electoral process so that there are no shadows on its transparency. but not only that. europe must tell israel that it must return to political dialogue and that it must make a truce. no suicide bombing on the one hand, no collective punishment or targeted executions on the other. we must send signals, signals to ensure the census in jerusalem and the removal of obstacles in the occupied territories to ensure mobility in the campaign and, above all, to free maruan barguti. contrary to what george w. bush thinks, the road to baghdad goes through jerusalem and this must be the european difference.
mr president, i congratulate the dutch presidency on the development of the area of freedom, security and justice. it is crucial to ensure the security of citizens and the protection of their fundamental rights, as well as mutual trust and the rule of law throughout the union. i congratulate the council, especially on its decision to apply article 67 of the treaty in full, so that a whole range of title iv matters can be voted on by qualified majority and by codecision. it is not only a step forward in terms of effectiveness but also in terms of democratic legitimacy, by reinforcing the fundamental role of this parliament in adopting rules on such sensitive matters as asylum and immigration policies and all those involving the fundamental rights of citizens. the five-year period after tampere has come to an end with important achievements in the area of freedom, security and justice. not all the objectives have been achieved, but progress has been made. the balance sheet is clearly positive and the work of commissioner antónio vitorino has contributed a great deal to this. in these five years, an impressive body of legislation has been produced, but we regret that, in terms of its transposition into national legislation, there have been huge shortcomings, both in terms of respect for deadlines and in terms of the quality of transposition. i applaud the hague programme for the next five years. it will now be up to the commission to propose concrete initiatives and a timetable for their adoption and implementation. i welcome the hague programme but i stress that here too, if we are to make europe, we must have the necessary financial resources. it is useless to proclaim priorities if we do not allocate the necessary means to them. i particularly welcome the start of the second phase of the definition of the european asylum system. only a common european asylum and immigration policy can tackle problems such as illegal immigration and human trafficking. the european union's security remains a major priority, and the condemnation of all forms of violence, particularly terrorism, is reiterated, and it is important to involve both europol and eurojust. thank you very much.
the european council of 5 november was the first after the signing of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe in rome on 29 october, and it is therefore important to underline our opposition to and criticism of aspects of economic, monetary and competition policy with their profoundly neoliberal character, devaluing social policy, insisting on a restrictive view of social rights and fundamental freedoms, deepening centralism and federalism in their various forms, defining, as stated in the motion for a resolution by our group of the european united left, the conception of a european security policy involving a substantial military dimension, close cooperation with nato and increased military efforts by the member states. as regards the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, we strongly criticise the kok report on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, in particular its insistence on 'competitiveness', on the flexibility of labour markets, on structural reforms in the internal market and on liberalization and privatisation policies, despite the disastrous consequences already known. we insist on the need to abolish the stability pact and create a pact for growth and employment, as stated in our group's motion for a resolution.
in writing. seeds produced in third countries consider that this proposal, which aims to simplify procedures for official certification of seeds, to extend the scope of field inspections to all crops for the production of certified seeds and to extend the scope of the equivalence of eu seeds to all types of seeds harvested in third countries, is correct and does not prejudice the interests of portuguese farmers and consumers.
in writing. after a long period of experimentation with sampling and testing of seeds, with the aim of examining whether such techniques could be used as alternatives to the official certification procedures, it was concluded that simplification of the procedures could be possible without entailing a significant decrease in seed quality. in view of this conclusion, the proposal for a directive, which covers four production sectors (forage, cereals, beet and oilseed and fibre) could contribute to the desired simplification effort, as well as extending the scope of field inspections under official supervision to all crops and increasing the scope of 'equivalence' of eu seeds to all types produced in third countries. since the legislative amendments proposed by the proposal are designed to reduce bureaucracy and promote the development of the market, i voted in favour.
in writing. taxation of savings income in the form of interest (andorra and liechtenstein), on the understanding that by favouring the internal market and fair competition it does not prejudice the freedom of citizens and, by virtue of these and other mechanisms, contributes to combating money laundering.
in writing. we are aware of the pressure to give the european union fiscal sovereignty, that is to say the power to levy taxes, and we are firmly opposed to this, because this sovereignty is an essential element of the sovereignty of a state. we are aware of the dangers of progressive tax harmonization which is aimed, step by step, at the federal path. however, we have never opposed greater fiscal coordination to tax the free movement of capital, to combat tax evasion and fraud, to end tax havens and to prevent money laundering. the savings directive, which is part of the so-called monti package, despite its dangers and shortcomings, contributes to a system of exchange of information, including the lifting of banking secrecy, between the tax administrations of the member states so that they can tax the interest of a resident of their country obtained in another member state. the council therefore authorised the commission to negotiate agreements with switzerland, the usa, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino for these states to apply equivalent measures to prevent capital flight. these agreements would deserve our support, not because of the obstacles to the internal market, as the rapporteur complains, but because coordination is necessary to tax capital and combat tax havens, particularly when the tax is not paid. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the proposal follows the authorisation given by the eu council to the european commission (decision of 16 october 2001) to negotiate agreements with switzerland, the united states of america, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino to combat the cases of natural and legal persons who end up being exempt from all forms of taxation in their state of residence on interest received in another state. this proposal promotes mechanisms to combat unfair tax competition and will naturally lead to an improvement in the functioning of the single market. on the other hand, an effective instrument to combat money laundering is being put into practice, in this case in relations with andorra. the unanimous vote by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection was a clear indication of the desire to pursue all these objectives. i voted yes.
in writing. the implementation of the argo programme in 2003 fell far short of the objectives due to under-utilisation of funds, caused by insufficient knowledge of the programme by national administrations and, on the other hand, by the difficulty in mobilising the necessary co-operation. this funding programme is mainly intended to promote cooperation between member states in the fields of asylum, immigration, crossing of external borders and visas. the aim of this proposal is to amend the argo decision so that it is possible to finance projects of one member state alone, without the direct participation of other member states, for measures in the field of the union's external borders, which, being in an area of free movement, are logically of common interest to all member states. i voted in favour of the proposed amendments because, although not the ideal solution, it is nevertheless what can be done at this time - before the new financial perspectives for the period after 2006 - to contribute to burden sharing in the context of integrated management (short voting statement pursuant to rule 163 (1))
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the programme seeks to promote the community approach to the management of member states' borders and to visa, asylum and immigration policies by making available funds from the community budget which require national co-financing. in other words, it is another catalyst for the construction of a 'fortress europe' based on the limitation of the fundamental powers of the sovereignty of the states. the implementation of this programme seems to be one of those examples where the rush and pressure of the most federalist intentions clash with reality. not only because it finds that there is no real need for the services of the member states to organise and mobilise, with partners from other member states, the resources needed for the implementation of the projects, but also because, as it is pointed out, because of monetary policy and the implementation of the stability pact, the european central bank and the governments of the 12 countries that are part of the euro zone, the member states, have not been able to mobilise the national funds required to obtain financing for this programme. it's fair to say, "there are evils that come with good".
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the practical implementation of the argo programme - an action programme for administrative cooperation on external borders, visas, asylum and immigration, established by council decision in june 2002 - has been beset by difficulties, mainly because the measures envisaged have proved too bureaucratic. the member states are facing increasing difficulties in organising and mobilising, with partners in other member states, the resources needed to implement projects. the commission therefore proposes that, in order to promote the general objectives of the argo programme, the number of actions to be proposed in the field of external borders should be increased and diversified. the granting of financial aid to national projects in the field of external borders, with a view to compensating for certain structural deficiencies at strategic border crossing points, reflects a desire, often expressed by both the council and parliament, for ever greater coordination between the various member states as an essential response to contemporary challenges. it should be recalled that the length of the external land border of the european union has almost doubled since the recent enlargement. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the main purpose of this proposal for a directive is to take account of the recent enlargement of the european union and the specific situation of the new member states, particularly as regards the achievement of the recycling and recovery targets, by giving them more time to adapt their national systems to the community targets, which we do not object to in principle. however, despite the european commission's commitment to present a report on the implementation of the directive by 30 june 2005, it is important to re-emphasise the importance of reuse and prevention in relation to packaging and packaging waste, giving them priority over recycling. it is important to remember that prevention should be the first line to reduce the impact of packaging on the environment; reuse the second line and everything that cannot be reused should be recycled. in this sense, the current directive may have adverse effects on existing reuse systems. therefore, more incentives should be created to introduce new packaging reuse systems where existing ones do not represent an environmental benefit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs dorette corbey (a6-0027/2004) - packaging and packaging waste on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste. on 31 december 1994, directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste entered into force. at the time this proposal was submitted to the european parliament and the council, accession negotiations were under way with ten new member states. the new member states acceded to the european union on 1 may 2004 without the transitional periods relating to the original directive having expired for all the acceding states. in addition, there was insufficient information on the conditions for increasing recovery and recycling targets in these states. the directive does not therefore contain any specific proposals for the accession countries in the operational part. this proposal sets 31 december 2012 as the deadline for the 10 new member states to meet the recovery and recycling targets for packaging waste. i consider it essential that all efforts be made to encourage packaging reuse systems in order to ensure that the
in writing. as i have said on many occasions, the recovery and recycling of packaging waste must be increased throughout the european union in order to reduce its environmental impact. the good results achieved by the member states in a union of 15 can and should be achieved by newcomers too. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. i found the proposal put forward by the rapporteur very relevant, in the sense that all member states should continue to be encouraged to impose packaging reuse systems in order to ensure a high level of environmental protection, while giving the new member states a period for better adaptation.
in writing. the present proposal to amend the regulation on the european agency for reconstruction has political consequences for the republic of cyprus which we consider very serious. as has been pointed out, this is a matter of using an eu agency set up with the aim of using community funds for the balkan region after the destruction of yugoslavia to manage future community funds for the turkish cypriot community. in other words, it is now intended to use this agency, which manages funds for third countries - which obviously does not apply to cyprus - to provide 'assistance' to the turkish cypriot community, which is living under the occupation of turkish troops. this will in fact result in the implicit recognition of the occupying authorities and the illegal turkish republic of northern cyprus (an entity recognised only by turkey). what they are proposing is a procedure for financial aid to the turkish cypriot community which makes a blank slate of the fact that the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union, has part of its territory militarily occupied by turkey, which is unacceptable. the paradox is that we are voting on the use of the agency for the practical implementation of a regulation (short explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1))
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr anders samuelsen (a6-0031/2004) - european agency for reconstruction on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european agency for reconstruction. i believe that the agency's task is fundamental, especially in view of the fact that south-east europe is a key region for the european union. however, the european parliament cannot fail to exercise its responsibilities as budgetary authority, nor allow a future that is less than structured and stable in the competences and tasks of the european agency for reconstruction. overall, the agency appears to be performing its task of managing the main community aid programmes in the region effectively. parliament called on the commission to present a report clearly indicating the division of tasks and responsibilities between the agency's operational centres and the commission's delegations, accompanied by an analysis of the operation of the regulation.
in writing. the european agency for reconstruction has demonstrated, as indicated in recent evaluation reports, a good capacity to implement the development assistance policy for the balkan region as laid down in that cards regulation and to achieve the objectives of its mandate. the lisbon european council (march 2000) confirmed that the main objective remains the fullest possible integration of the countries of the balkan region into the general political and economic mainstream of europe and that the stabilisation and association process is the cornerstone of its policy in the balkans. and the european council in vila da feira (june 2000) recognised these countries as potential candidates for membership of the european union. the implementation of the assistance policy which has been implemented and whose relevance and effectiveness have been confirmed should therefore be followed up by the extension of the mandate of the agency, and a stable community financial framework should be in place until 2006. i voted yes.
in writing. one of the fundamental issues raised by this proposal concerns respect for the full integrity of the republic of cyprus. it cynically calls on the european parliament to ensure that the european council takes an 'impartial' decision. fair to whom? we have to ask. is it ever possible to demand impartiality between occupier and occupied? between perpetrator and victim? it calls on the european parliament to take a "fair" decision. we affirm that there is no truly just resolution that does not condemn the turkish occupation of northern cyprus, demand the withdrawal of its troops and the implementation of un resolutions. any solution that is formulated with a view to the 'economic development of the turkish cypriot community' must therefore, without fail, respect the republic of cyprus, its territorial integrity and its sovereignty. it will not be acceptable for the european union to develop direct trade relations with the occupied part of cyprus to the detriment of and in addition to the cypriot government. as the cypriot authorities have rightly and legitimately stated, the european union's trade with the occupied part of cyprus must necessarily include the cypriot government. hence our vote.
in writing. regardless of the outcome of the referendum in cyprus, the european union must maintain its decision to provide financial support to the turkish cypriot community, provided that this does not call into question respect for the european union's position on this matter. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs mechtild rothe (a6-0032/2004) - financial support instrument (cyprus).
in writing. the proposal for a council regulation aims to promote the economic development of the turkish cypriot community by giving practical substance to the commitment, promised in the council declaration of 26 april 2004, to: 'end the isolation of the turkish cypriot community and facilitate the reunification of cyprus by promoting the economic development of the turkish cypriot community'. the turkish cypriot community clearly expressed its desire to secure its future within the european union in a referendum on 24 april 2004. and that has also been the expressed wish of the european union on several occasions. however, the known overall framework eventually made it impossible to use the amount provided for in the financial perspective for 2004-06. i therefore agree that the european union should provide assistance to the turkish cypriot community, in particular in the areas of economic development, economic integration of the island and improved contacts between the two communities and with the eu, in order to facilitate the reunification of cyprus, as also proposed in the regulation. i welcome the important proposal and i voted in favour.
the block system in force until the overthrow of communist totalitarianism led both sides to carelessly proliferate the sale and distribution of arms with the aim of using them against the local ideological antagonist. in the face of the new global strategic situation, arms export control and ensuring its transparency are of increased importance. the very atomisation of the threats against the free world, as seen in tragedies such as those of 11 september and 11 march, highlights the need, for the sake of general security, to place strong conditions on the international sale of arms. the eu code of conduct is a significant step forward in this direction, and the so-called priority actions and the confidential data-crossing system make very positive contributions towards a more effective knowledge of an arms market at european level. on the other hand, various missionary organizations have repeatedly warned of the seriousness of the proliferation of small arms, particularly in africa, as well as of the violent conflicts it facilitates and aggravates and the millions of innocent victims it tragically sows. i have often been associated with these denunciations and appeals. this report by mr romeva y rueda, whom i congratulate, and the code of conduct are on the right track and consolidate new hopes. i voted yes.
in writing. although i object to some points, there are important reasons why i voted in favour of the raül romeva i rueda report (a6-0022/2004) - arms exports. above all, i agree with the idea that effective control of arms exports on a global scale can only be ensured by an international arms control regime. therefore, strict international rules on arms exports should be promoted in the framework of the 2006 un conference on the review of small arms with a view to the adoption of a legally binding international arms trade treaty, including measures for the conversion and restructuring of companies producing military goods. on the other hand, the maintenance of the arms embargo on china is a positive sign that the european union is giving its criteria in this matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the military operation 'althea' in bosnia and herzegovina (b6-0162/2004). i believe that operation althea should reinforce the european union's overall approach to bosnia-herzegovina and support the progress of that country. this action aims to strengthen local police capacity and the fight against organised crime by gradually transferring responsibility for security to local authorities. the stabilisation and association process in bosnia and herzegovina is an essential framework for the country's path towards stability and development. i would like to remind you once again that this country must rely primarily on its own efforts on its way to peace and stability. the decision by the european union to use nato assets and capabilities for the 'althea' mission is fundamental, thus confirming the collaboration between the two organisations and implementing the december 2002 agreement on the european union's access to nato planning and command assets ('berlin plus').
in writing. he refers to the european parliament's resolution that this is the 'first large-scale military mission of the european union' with some 7 000 military personnel. others add that it is "mostly" a transfer of command from nato to the eu, "without major changes to the composition of the troops on the ground". it is written that such a 'mission' will strengthen the 'preparation of bosnia-herzegovina's eventual accession to the eu'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. we say that it is a matter of continuing the military occupation of this balkan country by nato, now through its european/eu pillar, in a process of accelerated 'transatlantic' militarisation. to paraphrase greek mythology, as cynically did the present warlords - responsible for the horror of its effects - it would seem that 'mars', the god of war, preoccupied with more pressing concerns - the war on the iraqi people - gave his wife 'althea' the task of looking after bosnia-herzegovina, but always under his armed 'protector' arm. it is the peoples and the peace that they lose.
in writing. the fact that operation althea is the largest military mission ever conducted by the european union should be a good moment to boost the political and popular debate about the limits and independence (and possible interdependence) of the member states' defence policy. it would be useful to monitor the operation closely and to promote the debate on defence in a european framework, possibly in the context of the discussion of the constitutional treaty. i think it is important that nato maintains a headquarters in sarajevo and that it remains closely linked to the operation. the experience it has, the success it has achieved in bosnia and the fact that it is the main military structure in which most member states are integrated are factors that contribute to ensuring that its relevance and its central importance in a geostrategic context that is desired as a euro-atlantic priority is not overlooked. the difficulties which bosnia-herzegovina still faces at the present time are evident. in addition to terrorism, the difficulties in enforcing good governance mechanisms and rampant corruption, reports from military personnel involved in previous operations show that there are still several cases of latent animosity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on climate change b6-0129/2004. i believe that the kyoto protocol is a first attempt by the international community to combat climate change and that this does not mean that other measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that could be adopted at national level should be relegated to the background, but rather that they should be considered as complementary. the european union should play a leading role in the negotiations to be held at the cop-10 conference in buenos aires. cop-10 is a good opportunity not only to build on the decisions taken at previous conferences of the parties, in particular in bonn, marrakesh, new delhi and milan, on the implementation of the kyoto protocol, but also to launch a broad debate on the main issues for the second commitment period, with a view to achieving the community objective of keeping the average global temperature increase below + 2 °c above pre-industrial levels; reiterates its position that the principle of equal rights for all citizens of the world should be applied in the long term.
in writing. the problem of climate change and its effects on the planet is one that is increasingly being tackled in the context of globalisation and implies a different view of the world and of the development models in practice. the known studies on climate change point to accelerated worsening of the effects of this phenomenon. if the phenomena of climate change continue, they will have serious social, environmental, economic and public health consequences. in addition to the understanding that the prevention of climate change undoubtedly requires the adoption of policies and measures by each state to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, i would also like to stress the importance of the kyoto protocol, the first international instrument in the fight against climate change. i believe that the eu delegation to the buenos aires conference should take a leading role in the negotiations, seeking to alert its international partners to the need to protect the climate and should also engage in a frank, open and sensible dialogue with the united states so that they reconsider their decision not to ratify. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in cuba. i consider the human rights violations which are continually perpetrated in cuba and of which we hear every day to be intolerable. the expulsion by the cuban authorities of three members of parliament from the member states of the european union and two representatives of ngos is unacceptable. the political future of cuba must be based solely on the will of its citizens. i would also stress that the release of all political prisoners, the release of mr payá sardiñas and the achievement of significant progress on the island in promoting democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are indispensable sine qua non conditions for any possible modification of the eu's common position on cuba and the measures adopted unanimously on 5 june 2003.
in writing. the european parliament has once again "spoken the voice of the owner" and the majority of meps have reaffirmed, as it does, the policy of the united states towards cuba. of course, they included a point where they stressed the 'counterproductive nature of the embargo imposed on cuba by the united states and the consequent need to lift the embargo'. but to do so more effectively is to prevent the european council from possibly modifying the eu's common position on cuba or the sanctions imposed on that country by the eu. central objective of this resolution. but equally, and with increasing force, there comes from there, and from here, on both sides of the atlantic, the demand for solidarity with cuba, with its steadfast and conscientious people. the fight against the illegal and criminal blockade imposed on this country by the united states for over 40 years. so too is the demand for an end to the 'eu common position' and its unacceptable sanctions against cuba. the demand for an end to the blockade was reaffirmed by the un general assembly, which voted 179 in favour and only four against - the united states, israel, the marshall islands and palau - with micronesia abstaining.
in writing. without referring to the promoters of the amendment to the european union's common position in the cruelly unimpressed terms of vargas llosa, i cannot, however, fail to deplore and utterly repudiate this initiative. recalling the letter of 11 november by oswaldo payá, i believe that the firm ethical stance taken by the union in the face of human rights violations in cuba cannot be 'branded' without the appearance and sound of shameful surrender. if the union is to assume the role of promoter and defender of civil liberties and human rights, it must condemn a totalitarian regime which not only brazenly challenges the international order but also strangles its own people. of course we want dialogue with cuba! and we rightly hope that it can at least return to the critical but hopeful situation that existed in december 2002, when oswaldo payá was able to come to strasbourg to receive the sakharov prize. but for that to happen, it's fidel castro and his regime that needs to change. i need to speak to you. i voted in favour of the proposal which the epp/ed endorsed and which i was one of the authors of, and which is the one which best reflects this line of action. (the minutes were approved)
the european council in brussels on 4 and 5 december made a clear diagnosis that the objectives of the lisbon agenda have not yet achieved the success they were intended to. the desired competitive knowledge-based economy has not developed as it should and the internal cohesion it would imply has clearly not been achieved. i believe that the pursuit of the overall objective is a positive step, and i think that the concern of the member states to take concrete and feasible measures to promote it is warranted. i believe that closer involvement of the european parliament or monitoring of the implementation of the lisbon agenda will be insufficient without involving the national parliaments of the member states, the direct representatives of the citizens. i welcome the fact that the area of freedom, security and justice has been given particular attention by the council and i reaffirm what was expressed in a report of the last legislature on this subject, which i had the opportunity to draw up. i reiterate the need to respect the plurality of opinions in europe and therefore stress the need to ensure that the 'explaining europe' initiative is not used to force the spread of a falsely unique and univocal idea of what the european project was, is and will be. i voted in favour of the ppe's proposal. thank you very much.
in writing. we voted against the joint resolution because we disagree with its content and because our proposals have not been adopted, particularly in such important areas as those relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, including the hague programme which we strongly criticise, because under the pretext of combating terrorism and the fight against 'illegal immigration' there is a growing risk of unilaterally favouring 'security' to the detriment of 'justice' and 'freedom'. for example, we regret that the following proposals from our group were not adopted: - rejects the general idea of introducing biometric parameters in identity documents, whether visas, residence permits or eu passports, because of the high risks to data protection and privacy that this would entail and also because of the lack of a full justification for the necessity, functionality, efficiency and possible side effects of including such identification parameters in identity documents; - strongly opposes the creation of a european return fund and the commission's appointment of a special representative for a common readmission policy; (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution - european council of 4 and 5 november 2004. this european council dealt with key issues and took important steps, notably in the context of the lisbon strategy. the validity and relevance of the lisbon strategy and the design of a balanced strategy combining the economic, social and environmental dimensions are to be welcomed. this balance is essential both for the european vision of society and for europe's competitiveness at world level. with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice, the european council emphasised the urgent need to reduce illegal immigration and that the only way to achieve this is to have a coherent and comprehensive european policy on asylum and immigration. he stressed that the middle east conflict could only be resolved by negotiating a firm and definitive peace agreement, as provided for in the roadmap for peace. as regards iraq, the situation of instability and indiscriminate violence, with terrorist attacks and hostage-taking, resulting in numerous civilian casualties, is a matter of concern given the difficulties encountered in restoring security and conditions (short voting statement pursuant to rule 163 (1))
mr president, mr president of the commission, in my previous speech in this parliament and outside it i said that i would make the necessary and sufficient changes so that i could bring forward a credible commission and, above all, and i stress 'above all', so that it could work in partnership with the council and in complicity and partnership with parliament. i must congratulate you because the hearings have shown that your intervention was agile and intelligent and that you were able to create the necessary climate for this indispensable partnership to take place. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. in short, they hope that we will finally have a commission with a vision, a commission with bold objectives, able to work with the council and parliament. we are convinced in our group, and i believe i can say today in this parliament, that he has the personal conditions and the commission with the characteristics to make the next commission a great commission for europe and that it will honour us all three institutions. good luck with that. thank you very much.
mr president, from july to november, president barroso has followed a tortuous path with many choices, including his failure in october, forcing a re-composition of the commission and demonstrating that arrogance is no good adviser. but the main features of neoliberal capitalism are still very much present in this commission, both because of the well-known links of some of its members to the major european economic and financial groups and, above all, because of the proposals they intend to defend, which means that the serious socioeconomic problems, unemployment, the enormous social and territorial inequalities and poverty and social exclusion will continue unabated. so our position is clear and the same as in july. we will vote against it, not only because we know president barroso and the disaster his policy has been in portugal, but above all because we are fighting for new policies for the development of jobs with rights, quality public services and a strong commitment to the defence of peace, peace throughout the world, including in iraq.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president barroso, first of all, congratulations. in the last week of october there were those who did not understand and even criticized his decision to postpone the vote on the european commission. congratulations on being right and on being recognized by everyone today. the european ideal, the community process, requires an effective relationship between your commission and this parliament. he called it, well, positive complicity. it is in our common interest and we must build it permanently. you have given the signal in the last few weeks, and it is now up to us to give it our signal by an express vote in the committee you chair. we need a strong commission, with authority and legitimacy. the challenges ahead of us force us to do so. we are counting on you and your commission to uphold the community spirit. we are counting on you to strengthen economic and social cohesion. there will be no common project with the increase of inequalities and asymmetries. we are counting on you to ensure that the financial resources are adequate. it is not consistent to ask the commission for more responsibilities and tasks and not to allocate the corresponding resources. we count on you to ensure that cultural and linguistic diversity is valued. the european project is enriched by the value placed on the cultural identity of each of its peoples and by the possibility for each citizen, in his own language, to receive information and interact with the european institutions. we are counting on you to give a new impetus to bring europe closer to its citizens by closing the information and participation gap in the european democratic process. i am not speaking here primarily as a member of your party, mr barroso, but as a portuguese and european, and it is as a portuguese and european, committed and convinced, that i wish you and your commission the greatest success. good work and good luck.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the commission, three weeks ago the commission chaired by you, mr barroso, was a good commission. the line of its approach was positive, its position firm and clear, the objectives announced were advantageous for europe in general and fair to the cohesion countries in particular. today, for exactly the same reasons, it is still a good commission. its composition was, and still is, largely worthy of our approval, not only because it avoided a division between supercommissioners and second-tier commissioners, but also because it ideologically identifies with our values and, in general, is closer to the sentiment of the majority of the populations of the member states. madam president, mr president-in-office, the europe i believe in is the europe of freedom and diversity, of security, prosperity and solidarity. these should be our guiding principles and, in fact, these were the values that mr barroso promised to uphold. europe must remember that without security there is no freedom, without competitiveness there is no resilient social model and without subsidiarity there is no unity in diversity, there is fusion in unity and that is not desirable. finally, we support the barroso commission as an opportunity to relaunch transatlantic ties. europe is not defined by opposition to any country, much less to our main ally, nor by opposition, much less by submission, but i think that is clear to all of us. finally, a word to mr barroso, who was a good prime minister of portugal. i do not ask or wish you to be our commissioner, i ask you to be the president of the commission who keeps in mind the concerns of citizens and states, regardless of the economic, demographic or geographical dimension of each of them, and i hope that this memory will serve as inspiration in the exercise of your new and important functions. good luck with that, dr. tough barroso. thank you very much.
in writing. i did not vote against the new commission proposal put forward by mr barroso because i took account of the political setbacks to which the president-elect was forced by the recent decisions of the european parliament, but above all because i am convinced that by voting against it i have contributed to consolidating the unity of the socialist group. the commission now approved is, however, a bad solution (which is a pity in the present political situation) and, unfortunately, this is mainly due to the fragility and dependence of its president. this is the real original sin. the retention of commissioner kroes as commissioner responsible for competition policy is a real time bomb which could cause serious damage to the commission's credibility in the future. the president of the commission has already been elected by parliament: the commission's rejection at this stage would therefore only lead to a worsening of the situation and the opening of an unwanted political crisis. that is why i abstain.
in writing. i did not vote against the commission proposed by mr barroso (and therefore my abstention helped to make it viable) for three fundamental reasons: the president of the commission has tried to respond to the demands made by the european parliament in general and by the pse in particular, and has made significant changes. the commission is not the commission that i think europe needs and it shows a strong neoliberal bent, but the present proposal is still much better than the previous one. 3.there are, however, some problematic cases of the unsuitability of the nominee for the post which indicate serious conflicts of interest.
in writing. i wanted to make the commission proposed by president barroso viable because i thought that a rejection, in the light of recent events, would cause a profound crisis in the functioning of the eu and open up a serious conflict between institutions. although, thanks to the intervention of the european parliament, the most aberrant element initially indicted to integrate the college of commissioners has been removed, i consider that this is a commission with an excessively neoliberal bent, under a leadership that can become competent if it does not fail to respect democratic principles and the objectives of european construction. but i could not vote for the commission because of the serious apprehension i have at the fact that mrs neelie kroes remains in the competition portfolio. i have no doubt of his competence, if only in the logic that "nothing better than an ex-poacher to catch poachers". but his personal competence - essential for a commissioner - is at stake, for he has omitted, among the numerous multinationals with which he has declared to have been professionally associated, the arms manufacturer lockheed martin. i also have reservations about the justice and freedom portfolio being handed over to a former minister of mr berlusconi, who is partly responsible for the delay in the approval of the arrest warrant (...) (short statement under rule 137)
in writing. given the strictly political reasons which led us in july to vote against the nomination of mr barroso as president of the commission; given the choices and the hearings of the elected representatives which led to the composition of the commission which will carry forward the political options against which we are and are fighting, we voted against the commission because, in the proposed composition, the political conditions which justified the vote in july have not been changed at all, but rather strengthened, and also for reasons which we made explicit in the declaration of vote on the joint resolution on this subject, and we reaffirm our support for and fight for other political options, which have social, regional and environmental values, always the objective of economic and social cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission being appointed, as i would have liked to have done when the first team led by mr barroso was presented. in this context of such great hopes and opportunities as enlargement and the public debate on a new constitutional treaty, it would be expected that a sense of responsibility would have presided over the decisions of all the political groups present in this house. unfortunately, this has not been the case. i regret that this first possibility was blocked three weeks ago and i especially deplore the unfortunate way in which members of this parliament and certain parliamentary services were permeable to an orchestrated campaign of disinformation against professor buttiglione, even revealing themselves to be the direct promoters of this campaign. the false theme was fed in bad faith to activist groups and does not correspond objectively to what happened in the parliamentary hearings. today, recalling my portuguese background, i think that no compatriot who is at all informed about european reality could understand the vote of a member of parliament from his country against a commission chaired for the first time by a portuguese. i did not expect my colleagues to persist in this blindness, something sectarian and deviated from the essential. i wish the president of the european parliament the best of luck in the vote on the short version of rule 163 (1).
in writing. although i disagree with some of the points made in this resolution, i voted in favour of it because i believe that, in the light of the various proposals put forward, it represents an acceptable compromise, particularly as regards point 5 (a), which i consider to be a key point, since it leaves the president of the commission with the final, reasoned decision on the retention of a commissioner who has lost the political confidence of parliament. as for the other commitments, they are generally aimed at improving the functional relations between the ep and the commission, which i think is a positive thing. the question of subsidiarity remains. unfortunately, the compromise resolution did not include the call for respect for this principle, which was the subject of an amendment proposed by the uen. the fact that this amendment has not been adopted does not exempt the ep, like the other european institutions, from strictly observing it, in accordance with the current treaties and the future constitutional treaty. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. this joint motion for a resolution, which is shared by the groups which have signed it, is very significant. whereas, the undersigned, the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority, have adopted the following resolutions: however, all that the signatories now consider, all that they welcome, all that they applaud, all that they hope for and all that they ask for does not change but reinforces the reasons - political ones! - which led us to vote against the investiture of mr barroso as president of the commission. the commission now presented is only a reflection of the team that will carry forward the political options we are opposed to and are fighting against. if we had any doubts, the october episode, the point convergence it created, would make them go away. the commissioner-designate remains, and more strongly, the commissioner-designate who scandalously illustrates the promiscuity between economic and financial power and political institutions. the replacement of the commissioner who so much poked fun at the human rights sensibilities of some members repeated at the hearings the same answers prepared by the services for the putative commissioner he was to replace because of the statements he had made at the hearings. we could only repeat the vote of july by voting against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i naturally voted in favour of the compromise resolution, which, with our sense of responsibility, was the possible point of balance between all the political groups that signed it. however, i would like to reserve an additional word to stress the importance of the amendment tabled by the uen (which i voted for) in the direction of the strictest respect for the principle of subsidiarity by the new european commission, which will now finally take office. respect for subsidiarity - which is a longstanding fundamental requirement that needs to be emphasized more - is the touchstone that distinguishes true europeanists, faithful not only in speech but actually in practice to the idea and the motto that the draft constitutional treaty has summed up: 'united in diversity'. i reject the fact that the portuguese left-wing meps (ps, pcp and be) voted against this proposal in defence of and in appreciation of subsidiarity and were thus responsible for its rejection with their 15 possible votes. i would also like to stress another point made in the speech by the president of the ppe/de group, mr hans-gert poettering, namely that the new commission should initiate and be able to:
in writing. the european union is at a stage where a set of important reforms are needed to ensure the development of the social model which is an integral part of our civilizational heritage. to continue to be a peace project, europe must grow economically, it must be able to create more jobs, it must be committed to sustainable development, it must show signs of greater social and territorial cohesion within its own borders and it must play a much more important role on the international scene and in the fight against terrorism. this set of objectives requires very active policies on the part of the european union and the member states. in this context, the commission needs coordination that is capable of leading the reforms to be carried out, in a framework of commitments with the different political forces represented in this parliament. i recognize in mr josé manuel durão barroso the reformist spirit and leadership qualities that the executive body of the european union needs in these circumstances. for these reasons i voted in favour of the commission headed by josé manuel durão barroso. the fact that it is a fellow citizen who will head the european commission gives my vote a sense of great pride.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr proinsias de rossa (a6-0030/2004). i consider the ombudsman's role in enhancing transparency and democratic accountability in the decision-making processes and administration of the european union to be an essential contribution to a union in which decisions are truly taken close to the citizen. i would remind you that the european parliament unanimously approved the european union code of good administrative behaviour and that the commission has not adopted the code. also following a request by the european ombudsman for an amendment of the provisions of the statute of the ombudsman relating to access to documents and the hearing of witnesses; the european parliament recommended that these provisions be amended, but they have not yet been amended because of reservations from the commission and the council. the role of the ombudsman has had the positive effect of informing citizens of their rights and duties vis-à-vis the european institutions and it is therefore important that this house should make every effort to review the statute of the ombudsman in order to make it more effective and better able to respond to the requests of european citizens.
in writing. like the rapporteur, i support the ratification of the ombudsman's annual report for 2003, which covers the final part of the previous ombudsman's term of office and the first months of the current european ombudsman's term of office. as for the former provider, i would like to highlight the efforts made to ensure public access to community documents, full transparency in recruitment procedures and the need to ensure that all community acts directly affecting citizens are duly substantiated. i would stress the importance of the proposal for a european code of good administrative behaviour, which has not yet been adopted by the commission. there are also good signs for the current provider, notably the significant increase in the number of complaints (30% in 2004) that have been properly dealt with. finally, the document notes that the ombudsman's powers are little known to citizens, as an overwhelming percentage of complaints fall outside his remit. this only shows the need to monitor the various solutions which are becoming established at union level and which in practice fall short of both the reasons for which they were designed and the virtualities they have in the abstract.
when economic and social cohesion was discussed at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, the figures were different: they went from 1.22 to 1.32 and they were at 1.27. today, everything is rounded to 1, even though thousands can be used to argue that something has resisted. when the last enlargement led to a doubling of social inequalities and regional asymmetries, the number 1 became an unfortunate, almost exoteric symbol. when the unity of the commercial and militarist strands is projected and the unity of the stability pact only aggravates the 'disunity' in the social and regional spheres, adopting 1% in the financial perspectives is a way of promoting individuality against solidarity and cohesion. to counteract this, our group has tabled amendments. and it was the only one, because they're the only ones that give an indispensable signal of resistance. we have done so, above all, against the 1% which is the symbol of what we do not want: an individualistic, selfish europe of commercial, militarized financial units, without social solidarity and without regional cohesion. there was, of course, much more and better to say, but i only had a minute.
the rapporteur. mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in particular the shadow rapporteurs and, most especially, mr michael cashman, for their cooperation. we are all needed to work together in responding to the times of insecurity we live in. it's not worth sticking your head in the sand. the need to strengthen the security of our citizens is undeniable and we must always do so without compromising on the essential freedoms, including the right to privacy of personal data. the proposal we are discussing today was presented to parliament in february 2004 and is the result of a coherent approach to biometric identifiers, involving harmonised solutions for national documents of third countries, passports for citizens of the european union and the vis system and the second generation of the schengen information system. increased security of travel documents and the integration of biometric identifiers should contribute to the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration and also to the enhancement of security in the exercise of freedom of movement. the best way to prevent the use of false identities is to check whether the person who presented the document is the rightful holder. the use of new technologies has many advantages in terms of identifying individuals and preventing the forgery of documents. we must fight against so-called visa-shopping and identity theft. the attention paid by the european parliament to data protection is fully justified. a balance must always be struck between the need for security and respect for individual rights and freedoms as recognised by national and community law. this is an essential and a priori condition for the adoption of the use of biometric identifiers. for all these reasons i have clearly supported the amendments tabled in the letter of the article 29 working party and i stress the need for measures on access: who can have access and for what purposes. member states should establish a list of competent authorities, of safeguards in relation to persons who are unable to provide some of the selected biometric data, such as fingerprints - as is the case for victims of burns or of organ amputations - of safeguards that at border controls, in particular in the case of a false rejection, there is a place for the concerned citizens to be informed of the reasons for such rejection and of the means at their disposal to resolve the situation quickly. finally, new tasks are assigned to the supervisory authorities in this area, accompanied by an increase in the resources needed to perform the new tasks. i would like to end by listing the four issues which are crucial to the adoption of this report. first, a single purpose for the use of the data. it should be clarified beyond any doubt that data may only be used for the purpose of identity verification and in no case for the purpose of identification or even covert surveillance. secondly, the question of the database. the report i am presenting to you clearly rejects the creation of a central database. biometric data should be stored exclusively in the passport. the creation of a database is not necessary to ensure a more reliable link between the passport and its holder and the risk of misuse of the function, i.e. the use of the data for purposes other than those originally intended, is too high. in order to avoid confusion or misrepresentation, i would point out, however, that nowhere in the commission's legislative proposal or in the current council text is there any specific proposal for the creation of such a database. there was a reference in the explanatory statement to possible future consideration of this possibility and only for this reason do we propose that the position of the european parliament be made clear from now on. thirdly, the technical solution chosen. the technical specifications must be robust enough to lend credence to the use of biometrics. we cannot risk rushing into solutions which later on will be considered ill-prepared or technologically outdated or even expensive. such an action would undermine the confidence of the citizens. and a fundamental question, commissioner frattini, the most delicate part in terms of data protection does not result from the choice of principle but from the way it will be implemented. that is why we have proposed that the experts responsible for examining technical specifications in the light of data protection should be given the opportunity to evaluate the technical specifications and, if necessary, to suggest corrections to existing problems. fourth and last point: amendments to the original proposal. at its meeting on 26 october the council decided to make the following amendment: the introduction of fingerprints, which was previously optional, has now become mandatory. from a political point of view, the civil liberties committee had already approved by a large majority the introduction of these two biometric identifiers, with the only difference that it had left it to the discretion of the member states to adopt or not the second. all the reservations were withdrawn in the council and it was the member states themselves who decided to put aside this discretion and to opt for the two options. i therefore believe that there is no objection to parliament voting in favour of this report, making its position on this matter clear and stressing the guarantees we want to be safeguarded at all times.
mr president, i too would like to highlight the work done by the court of auditors in recent years and to mention in particular the fact that in its 2003 annual report it states that the commission services, and in particular olaf, have not dealt with a number of cases of fraud involving the community's agricultural budget. this is indeed the point which i find most worrying in this situation, especially since the most important case we discussed here in the last parliamentary term was the so-called 'italian-ass' case, which began with a complaint from the italian police authorities, sent in october 1999 to olaf, pointing to a fraud estimated by those authorities at eur 100 million to the community budget. it was with the greatest surprise that i saw this commission, now in office, say in november 2004 that there was no firm claim of any damage to the community budget. this is absolutely fantastic and shows how far, in this particular aspect of the great fraud of the big food industry in europe - as i have said many times in this house - we have a very serious problem that is not being solved. it is to this problem, more than to any small detail of formal irregularity, that i would like to draw the attention of this house and the european commission and, in particular, of mr kallas, who is with us in this debate.
, in writing. while in venezuela, brazil, argentina, uruguay, elsewhere on that continent and in the world, there are changes in the direction of history and hope, in colombia the situation, by contrast, becomes more violently reactionary. the articulation between institutions with a democratic cloak, and paramilitary structures and so-called "sapos"/informants, has created and strengthens a repressive, violent network. all the tricks are used. the pretexts of terrorism and drug trafficking are used to attack popular movements, to displace populations, to devastate areas suspected of resistance, or to support resistance to fascism. the social question, as well as the location of the country, are at the heart of this struggle in which colombia is the protagonist. progressive labour legislation has been brutally attacked in recent years as the vanguard of the social struggle, the communists were the first to be targeted, military operations have succeeded one another without success; developments in neighbouring countries have made the role of police and buffer in the region more valuable. when, and for whom, so much is said about human rights, the case of colombia deserves very particular attention. with denunciation, solidarity and fighting. the opposite of interference, of militarization and intervention in the region as the usa always threatens under the code "plan colombia"!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my view as rapporteur and in the view of the committee on civil liberties, there is no problem with the legal basis, there is a political question, which is whether or not parliament is in a position to tell the council what it thinks on this matter, and in our view what parliament should say to the council today is that we are in favour of strengthening the security of passports and travel documents but we are also in favour of maintaining strict personal data protection clauses. that is what is in the report that was adopted by the committee on civil liberties and that is what i would like to invite all members to adopt today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jan mulder report because i believe that it is essential that the member states receive the structural funds as soon as possible. given the reality of budget implementation, the need for the amendment in question is obvious and therefore justified.
in writing. this amending budget, which forms part of the budgetary reconciliation of 25 november, provides for an increase in payment needs for the structural funds of eur 3.7 billion, of which eur 500 million is additional own resources. that's why he deserves our vote in favour. this is true, because we said a year ago that the amount of payments for the structural funds was not enough and that the council's obsession, with the backing of the european parliament, to cut payments because of the constraints of the stability pact, would not only widen the gap between commitments and payments, but would also create problems of budget implementation. the member states' requests in this area are expected to increase in the last years of the current financial framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. an additional concern that increases the risk of authorisations being cancelled due to the application of the n+2 rule. this is a concern which also contributes to the demand for the repeal of the stability pact.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr jean-paul gauzès (a6-0039/2004) - taxation of savings income in the form of interest (são marinho). the agreement reached will ensure that measures equivalent to those to be applied within the european union are adopted to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments made in one state and intended for beneficiaries residing in another state. this should allow effective taxation, which is necessary to combat unfair tax competition and to improve the functioning of the single market. we welcome the efforts made by the republic of san marino to establish fiscal transparency and genuine judicial cooperation to combat fraud and money laundering. i would, however, like to stress that the republic of san marino, which has chosen to build part of its prosperity on the development of financial services, must continue to respect the rules of the game and strengthen its cooperation against money laundering.
in writing. we are aware of the pressure to give the european union fiscal sovereignty, that is to say the power to levy taxes, and we are firmly opposed to this, because this sovereignty is an essential element of the sovereignty of a state. we are aware of the dangers of progressive tax harmonization which is aimed, step by step, at the federal path. however, we have never opposed greater fiscal coordination to tax the free movement of capital, to combat tax evasion and fraud, to end tax havens and to prevent money laundering. the savings directive, which is part of the so-called monti package, despite its dangers and shortcomings, contributes to a system of exchange of information, including the lifting of banking secrecy, between the tax administrations of the member states so that they can tax the interest of a resident of their country obtained in another member state. the council therefore authorised the commission to negotiate agreements with switzerland, the usa, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino for these states to apply equivalent measures to prevent capital flight. these agreements would deserve our support, not because of the obstacles to the internal market, as the rapporteur complains, but because coordination is necessary to tax capital and combat tax havens, particularly when the bulk of the tax burden falls on the employees. however, we believe that the terms of the agreement do not guarantee such a purpose.
in writing. we are aware of the pressure to give the european union fiscal sovereignty, that is to say the power to levy taxes, and we are firmly opposed to this, because this sovereignty is an essential element of the sovereignty of a state. we are aware of the dangers of progressive tax harmonization which is aimed, step by step, at the federal path. however, we have never opposed greater fiscal coordination to tax the free movement of capital, to combat tax evasion and fraud, to end tax havens and to prevent money laundering. the savings directive, which is part of the so-called monti package, despite its dangers and shortcomings, contributes to a system of exchange of information, including the lifting of banking secrecy, between the tax administrations of the member states so that they can tax the interest of a resident of their country obtained in another member state. the council therefore authorised the commission to negotiate agreements with switzerland, the usa, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino for these states to apply equivalent measures to prevent capital flight. these agreements would deserve our support, not because of the obstacles to the internal market, as the rapporteur complains, but because coordination is necessary to tax capital and combat tax havens, particularly when the bulk of the tax burden falls on the employees. however, we believe that the terms of the agreement do not guarantee such a purpose.
in writing. the rapid development of new technologies - in particular the new opportunities offered by the internet and new online technologies - is countered by the problem of the growth of new dangers and new abuses in their use. measures are therefore needed to protect the end-user from unwanted content and to encourage safer use. i therefore support this initiative which seeks to adopt a multiannual community programme to promote safer use of the internet and new online technologies. its action will focus on areas such as content potentially harmful to children, content not desired by the end user and illegal content such as child pornography. it succeeds the action plan for a safer internet (1998-2004), which was a very successful outcome and has stimulated a wide range of initiatives promoting the best ways to benefit from the potential of new media in a secure way. it is also positive that new hotlines are to be set up in all member states, which should be incorporated quickly and effectively into the existing european hotline network, which allows for the coverage and exchange of reports on the most worrying types of illegal content.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report because it gives special attention to an area where there is general agreement. we agree that the fight against misuse and the promotion of safer use of the internet, particularly by children, and the fight against illegal and unwanted content is an objective that we believe needs to be given greater attention. we welcome the proposal to set up a programme to finance and coordinate the fight against illegal content, enabling users to be informed of content rather than policed; the creation and coordination of service centres in eu countries and their coordination with future members and third countries, limiting the funding of private software companies for filtering; the strengthening of the participation of ngos and the creation of self-regulation mechanisms by servers rather than the establishment of judicial control procedures. the evolution of the internet, which has allowed it to go beyond the previous domains and to reach the so-called "navigation" of the available pages, is dominated by commercial interests, turning it into a medium of diffusion of advertising par excellence, extended to the pornography industry and illegal content, in particular child pornography and xenophobic and racist material. it is therefore necessary to take measures, but without jeopardizing fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of the edith mastenbroek report (a6-0033/2004) - safer use of the internet and new online technologies. internet penetration and the use of new technologies such as mobile communications are still growing significantly in the community. at the same time, there are still dangers, especially for children, and abusive practices in the use of technologies, and new dangers and abusive practices are also emerging. measures are therefore needed to promote safer use of the internet and to protect the end-user from unwanted content. the new programme, safer internet plus, contains a number of good proposals for the continuation of existing programmes and the creation of new ones. its focus on the end user is the most realistic approach, and its insistence on awareness is its main virtue. the rapporteur, like us, believes that the programme should stress the importance of transparency and the representation of all stakeholders at all levels and act on the four fronts proposed - combating illegal content, tackling unwanted and harmful content, organising the 'safer internet forum' and raising awareness among citizens in general.
in writing. as a consequence and an integral part of the current security drift by the eu institutions, the current proposal from the european commission and the council deserves our rejection - a position which was adopted by the european parliament in the previous legislature. as is widely denounced, this is a disproportionate measure - and of questionable legal basis - which is part of a supranational dynamic and the creation of the foundations of the instruments of surveillance and control at eu level - such as the creation of a personal data base at eu level - especially since there is no legal framework for the protection of citizens or any parliamentary supervision, in particular of national parliaments. it is a measure which is subserviently designed to meet the requirements of the united states for the entry of eu citizens, without reciprocity. the council, at the initiative of the security 'g5' (great britain, germany, france, italy and spain), goes even further than the 'requirements' for the use of biometric data - whose effectiveness is more than questionable in the face of the arguments put forward for its introduction, the so-called 'fight against terrorism' - by introducing two (photography and digital printing) instead of one. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr carlos coelho (a6-0028/2004) - passports for citizens of the union. the proposal aims to make passports more secure by introducing harmonised and legally binding standards for the security features of eu citizens' passports and by introducing biometric identifiers. the introduction of a biometric identifier will make it extremely difficult to forge passports, as biometrics will ensure that the person presenting a passport is in fact the holder for whom it was originally issued. the use of biometrics is a very sensitive issue from the point of view of data protection. the necessary safeguards will have to be put in place to ensure full compliance with the provisions of the data protection directive. in fact, personal data should be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collected and subsequently processed. however, we believe that the report strikes a good balance between the security that needs to be guaranteed and the freedom that we should all enjoy.
mr president, when democracy and freedom are at stake, you are either for or against. that is why it is so important that in these days we all make our position clear in favour of democracy and freedom, demanding free elections in ukraine. it is not the victory of one of the candidates that moves us, it is the hope of the ukrainians that obliges us and reminds us that, in addition to being a neighbouring country of europe, there are hundreds of thousands of ukrainians scattered throughout the union, many of them even in portugal. we who have followed these elections closely cannot betray the confidence they place in a union which is above all democratic and free. but it is also a time to say that we stand by the exemplary contribution which the european parliament has made to the cause of democracy in ukraine. the situation in question fully justifies our efforts. it is also time to recognize, as has already been pointed out here, that in the main and in the essential our priorities are identical to those of our transatlantic allies. i would like to conclude by saying that the persistence of the majority of ukrainians is an example for us all, which binds us to the promotion, more and more, of the universal values of democracy, freedom and the rule of law.
in writing. the worrying situation in ukraine has been discussed in this parliament in terms that have not always been the most correct, which is reflected in some way in the joint resolution adopted, from which we have distanced ourselves. for our part, we consider it essential to be committed to the stability of ukraine, and we are in favour of a peaceful resolution of the conflict without external interference, while acknowledging that there has already been excessive external interventionism in this whole process. we know that the conflict in ukraine is the result of an internal conflict between those who fought for the end of the ussr, who have moved towards the process of capitalist restoration, and who are now also facing new external pressures, particularly from the united states, to extend the influence of nato. we therefore do not think it is right to intervene by taking sides with one or the other of the conflicting parties. the ukrainian people must find their own way.
in writing. we regret that the four amendments tabled by our group to the resolution on the financial perspective have been rejected. the resolution does not condemn the strategy of the signatory countries of the so-called 'charter of the six', which seems to be the same as that of the council, which aims to influence the debate on the financial perspective by proposing that the budget of the european union be fixed at a maximum of 1% of community gnp, without giving due emphasis to the financing of economic and social cohesion in an enlarged eu and of the policies on which it is based. it also leaves open the question of the duration of the next financial perspective, in line with the objectives set out in the european constitution, which is five years. we believe that the seven-year period 2007-2013 is the most appropriate for structural policy planning. finally, the resolution wrongly links the discussion on own resources - revenue - with the financial perspective - expenditure - which puts the correction mechanisms of the main net contributors on the back burner. that is why we abstained.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament, but also as a portuguese citizen, i believe that the requirement to maintain policies which allow for greater integration and cohesion of the union - as called for in this report - must be a constant throughout the financial preparation of the european union. the principle of solidarity is fundamental, and foundational, to our community. and, furthermore, it is a substantial principle which cannot become a permanently relativized equation as the european average fluctuates each time enlargement causes that average to fall. our aim must and must be to level the playing field, creating a europe which is cohesive and solidary in its development and wealth.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of this resolution, especially since the plenary adopted most of the proposals we put forward to improve the joint resolution, namely: - calls on the commission and the member states to contribute to the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria, a minimum of eur 1 billion on a sustained basis; - calls on the european pharmaceutical industry to devote a significant part of its resources to anti-infectious and other essential medicines; calls, for example, on sanofi-aventis, the largest pharmaceutical group in europe, to start research into this disease instead of dispersing the team of researchers with expertise in this field; - calls on the commission to draw up a proposal aimed at better safeguarding the public interest in the guidance and research, development and production of medicinal products, with a view to lowering prices and reducing medical costs for public health services, and to guaranteeing the right of universal access to medical treatment and essential medicines; - urges the commission to oppose, both at wto level and in its bilateral relations, the inclusion by the us in its bilateral agreements with developing countries of the right to waive the import of generics necessary for the public health of their populations;
in writing. the endless spread of hiv/aids should concern us all. for several years now, efforts have been thwarted by a changing reality which has affected diverse and constantly changing populations both in europe and, even more so, in the rest of the world, particularly in africa, where it is a real scourge of dramatic proportions. this requires a constant effort to combat its spread and to invest in research and development of more effective therapeutic and preventive medicines. and that effort must, of necessity, be shared by the world's richest. we did.
the rapporteur. i have no objection to the report on the dutch initiative on vehicle theft being placed on the agenda, mr president, because i think it would be a kind gesture towards the dutch presidency if parliament, before it finishes, gave its opinion on its initiative, which is, moreover, a peaceful initiative and does not generate controversy among the benches. what i do not think is reasonable is that this should be done to the detriment of the initiative on registers. why would you do that? because what is at stake in the matter of the registers is the introduction of biometric data. the european parliament has already decided on this matter in the last session in brussels, with regard to passports. now we have to close the file on the visas. this is not a matter of codecision. it is a matter on which parliament gives its opinion to the council and either parliament gives its opinion in time to influence the council's decision or we lose out by 'failure to appear' because the council will decide in the absence of parliament's position. our position was well founded - it had the support of the socialists in the committee on civil liberties - and i do not see why we should dispense with this vote at today's sitting. so, mr president, i think we can add the report on the dutch initiative - a nice gesture for the presidency in office - but without withdrawing the report on visas, which was, moreover, adopted by a very large majority in the committee on civil liberties and with the vote of the socialists.
mr president, i would first like to commend the work of our colleague mr eurlings, whose report gives us an accurate picture of the current situation in turkey. the report itself reminds us that, despite the important reforms under way, torture continues to be practised in turkey, that there is no consistent practice of respecting human rights and that the genocide of the armenian people is not recognised, among other worrying factors. the obvious question is whether we are then in a position to open accession negotiations. as regards cyprus, is it possible or even acceptable for a european union with 25 member states to enter into negotiations with a country which only fully recognises 24 of these states? it seems surprising to me, to say the least. finally, in any event, will the european union be able to fully integrate turkey with all that this implies in financial, structural and european cohesion terms? another question: will our external security be strengthened if we have borders with critical countries like iran, iraq, syria, azerbaijan and georgia? i am not even talking about what should be the first question of all: how far do the union's borders go? i am not referring only to the geographical boundaries, but above all to the conceptual boundaries, which our colleague mr toubon referred to in his speech a short while ago. in view of all these constraints, the european parliament must at least open the door to an alternative to full membership. an alternative that recognizes the importance of the privileged relationship with this great country, but still an alternative. if it does not do so, it will make the same mistake as others have made in the past, which is to give, perhaps for the best reasons, the wrong message to the great turkish nation, or else to tie europe to commitments which it may not be able or even willing to fulfil later.
the central issue in this report is support for the official opening of negotiations with turkey, starting from a series of conditions and contradictions, which in some cases are impositions that go beyond the defence of human rights, although there is an unacceptable condescension with regard to the occupation of cyprus, given that it is a member state of the european union, with part of the territory militarily occupied by turkey. at this stage, which is not yet that of accession but merely the opening of negotiations for possible accession in ten years' time, it is important to know whether the conditions we have always set are met, taking into account the evolution of the situation in turkey and the interests and aspirations of its people, as well as the implications for portugal. but if we look at the question of fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees, it is true that there has been some progress, more the result of the struggle of your people and of progressive forces than of the pressure of the european union. and so it is that even positive changes to some legislation have in most cases not yet passed the paper. it is true that leyla zana and her comrades have been released, but according to information from progressive turkish and kurdish forces, some five thousand people are still being held... (summary statement pursuant to rule 142 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the commission has already given this parliament proof of his determination and enthusiasm to take over the leadership of the executive of the european union on the basis of a reforming culture, practices, policies and procedures. i hope that the commission as a whole will be able to find what is always the most difficult thing in the life of the institutions, with the impetus and the will to reform: the discovery of the right distance between realism and utopia. it is the search for this constant balance - which some call 'sensibility' - that has enabled europe over the last fifty years to develop the social model which is the driving force behind european identity. the essential components of this model have been peace, prosperity and the convergence of cultures. this model proved to be the winning model. but today we are faced with a reality in which many aspects have recently emerged that were previously unknown to us: a worrying demographic situation coupled with unprecedented technological developments, the most decisive factors in the consolidation of the phenomenon that has made the world smaller: globalization. in these circumstances, if europe is to remain a space that coexists with the winning model, it must face unhesitatingly the inevitability of reforms that lead, in the first place, to the strengthening of its competitiveness. this means opening up markets, increasing productivity, more and better research, more innovation and a greater bet on people and ideas. however, the reforms needed for europe cannot be seen as the sole task of the commission. i think that the most critical point of the reform era that is now beginning has more to do with the commitment and risk-taking on the part of the member states in implementing these reforms. it is only with a strong commitment from the member states that the participation of the most dynamic sectors of society and the intermediate powers can be encouraged, and without this there is no reform possible. this is also where i believe parliament should act.
mr president, mr president of the commission, when it comes to defining strategic guidelines, we should be clearer so that we can better express our ambition. the european union must be the europe of freedom, and freedom exists only in a healthy economic environment and with real and effective security. we need a competitive economy to meet the challenges of growth and full employment in a globalised world, and we must be able to reap the benefits of this. the challenge we face is to achieve an economy which makes balanced use of natural resources, which is efficient because it is modern and not because it accepts breaking the commitments on which the essence of its social model is based. wealth cannot be produced without work, and more wealth cannot be produced by working less. there is no such miracle, and those who persist in this mirage will be responsible for less development and less cohesion, both economically and socially. on the other hand, we need security. not security from speeches that exploit fear or those that ignore threats, but from strong policies that ensure effective borders and effective internal security. it is also necessary for europe to share with our traditional allies an international policy which promotes democracy and peace in our neighbouring territories and which contributes to a more secure and developed world. mr president, the coming years will require the commission under the presidency of mr barroso to show competence and a firm line of action in a period marked by the uncertainties arising from the ratification of the constitutional treaty and the financial austerity imposed on the member states by the stability and growth pact. we cannot have a union with more powers, more policies, more obligations and more states on the one hand and less budget and less resources on the other. it is an impossible equation, which makes impossible in the long term what we all want, a free and developed economy in a safe territory. this is the key to our model and the policy guidelines which will underpin it in the years ahead.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee - european agricultural fund for rural development on the proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). i believe that the european economic and social committee should be consulted given the strategic importance of the cap reform in 2003 and 2004. having concluded that the main focus of policy reform in the new financial period should be on rural development, it should also be underlined that more than half of the eu-25 population lives in rural areas, which cover 90% of the territory. rural development is therefore an important policy area, as reiterated in the conclusions of the lisbon (march 2000) and gothenburg (june 2001) european councils. it seems to me therefore essential to find together with the various institutional actors the measures that will help to accompany and further complement the reform of the cap and ensure coherence with the instruments and policies of the first pillar; as well as to contribute to other political priorities of the european union, such as the sustainable management of natural resources, innovation and competitiveness in rural areas, as well as economic and social cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions - erdf, esf and cohesion fund - on the proposal for a council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. i believe that cohesion policy is one of the fundamental instruments of solidarity within the european union. a policy which must be ambitious and capable of meeting the challenges of the latest enlargement and the new prospects for economic growth in europe. the consultation of the committee of the regions is essential given the strategic importance of these funds. the union's cohesion policy is an important contribution to achieving the objectives of growth and cohesion, as by reducing economic and social disparities, the union helps to ensure that all regions and social groups can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation by the committee of the regions - erdf on the proposal for a council regulation on the european regional development fund. this consultation seems to me to be essential, given the importance of the erdf for correcting regional imbalances. with the recent enlargement, regional disparities within the eu have widened, with a large increase in regions lagging behind. i believe that the harmonious development of the various regions of europe is a permanent challenge to which we must respond with clarity of objectives and firmness in political decisions. the development of the community's territory, which has increased with enlargement, requires greater territorial cooperation, based on joint projects for local development within the framework of crossborder cooperation and on measures leading to integrated territorial development, for which we need the participation of all regional actors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions - cohesion fund on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the cohesion fund. the contribution of the committee of the regions to this process of revision of the cohesion fund is indispensable since this is the fund which will contribute financially to the implementation of projects in the fields of the environment and the trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure. i believe that this revision should maintain the fundamental principles which define this policy and be based on an overall balance between strengthening the strategic dimension on the one hand and simplifying the system of implementation on the other, without thereby drawing a framework for reducing the solidarity between the states which is the principle and characteristic of this union of states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions - european grouping of crossborder cooperation (egcc) on the proposal for a council regulation on the creation of a european grouping of crossborder cooperation (egcc). the committee of the regions should be consulted given the importance of the powers exercised by local and regional authorities as public authorities. in view of the serious difficulties faced by member states, regions and local authorities in implementing and managing crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation actions, within the framework of different national legislation and procedures, it is essential that appropriate measures be taken at community level to overcome these difficulties. this new instrument of cooperation at community level allows the setting-up of cooperative groups with legal personality within the community, known as european crossborder cooperation groups (eccgs). the harmonious development of the community as a whole and the strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion require the strengthening of crossborder cooperation and the adoption of measures to ensure that obstacles to crossborder cooperation are removed.
in writing. the requirements of full and harmonious integration of the 10 new member states require that all protocols previously restricted to the 15 member states be adapted as soon as possible.
in writing. this proposal follows the authorisation given by the eu council to the european commission on 26 january 2004 to open and conclude negotiations with mexico with a view to concluding an additional protocol to the economic partnership, political concentration and cooperation agreement between the european economic community and its member states, of the one part, and mexico, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the new member states to the european union. the accession of these new member states entails a series of legal adjustments to put them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competitive fields. i voted yes.
in writing. the requirements of full and harmonious integration of the 10 new member states require the adaptation of all the protocols previously confined to the 15 member states, and require that this be done as soon as possible.
in writing. this proposal follows the authorisation given by the council of the eu to the european commission on 23 february 2004 to open and conclude negotiations with the republic of san marino with a view to the conclusion of a protocol to the agreement on cooperation and customs union between the european economic community and the republic of san marino, concerning the participation, as contracting parties, of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and the slovak republic following their accession to the european union. the accession of these new member states entails a series of legal adjustments to put them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competitive fields. i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council's proposal for a directive because i considered that it had already been sufficiently and unequivocally considered and assessed by the agri committee and deserved unanimous approval. however, i question the goodness and necessity of these matters of mere rectification or legislative updating following the same (albeit simplified) procedure as other reports dealing with matters of significantly greater importance. in my view, in the present case, the amendment of directive 87/32/eec can only be understood in the light of an excessively positivist interpretation of community law, since the storage of frozen bovine semen intended for 'semen collection centres' (with own production) could, by means of rules of common legal interpretation, include 'semen storage centres' (without own production), without any formal rectification being necessary for that purpose. it may seem like a joke. but sometimes even ridicule can be taken seriously; or the serious can seem ridiculous.
in writing. the proposal to amend the council regulation on eaggf support for rural development 'in order to avoid a difference in treatment between the member states' which were part of the european union before enlargement and the current 25 countries' is a positive one, but it should be noted that this measure arises in the context of a budgetary discussion in which a real reduction of funds will be made compared to the pre-enlargement period. this means that a policy is being pursued where support for rural development is used as part of a strategy to contain cap expenditure, the liberalisation of agricultural markets and the wto negotiations. these measures do not address the need to redress the deep injustices in the european union's agricultural policy, nor do they serve the urgently needed path towards economic and social cohesion between its various member states. the effective promotion of rural development requires farmers, agricultural production and a model of sustainable human development based on the exploitation of specific economic, social and cultural characteristics and diversity.
in writing. as this is an amendment to the regulation to avoid a difference in treatment between the former member states and those which joined this year, and as there is no budgetary change as a result of this amendment, i am in favour.
in writing. i believe that the states which joined the community after 1 may 2004 deserve treatment from their institutions which should be at least identical to that accorded to the oldest member states. i therefore voted in favour of the proposed amendment, since it is intended to prevent a situation of inequality in the limit of the financial contributions to be made on the basis of regulation no 1257/1999, and the third indent of the second subparagraph of article 47 (2) should be applied to the new member states.
in writing. this is an administrative matter, but it is correct from the point of view of the accounting system, since it corrects a situation which was justified before austria's accession to the union but which no longer makes sense. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. milk produced in the austrian regions of kleinwalsertal and jungholz is only available to german buyers, since the only access to those areas is by road from germany. regulation (ec) no 1782/2003, which introduced direct payments for the milk and milk products sector, left the management of the individual reference quantities of the producers concerned to the german authorities. at the same time, it stipulated that the payments relating to the milk premium were to be made by the austrian authorities within the limits of their national reference quantity and the corresponding budgetary limit. the result was, as one might expect, a highly irrational situation. it is essential that the dairy premium be administered in a fair and balanced way. the reference quantities for the producers concerned for germany should therefore be converted into reference quantities for austria from the 2004/05 milk year. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that, following the council decision of june 2004, it is essential that the legal instruments be adapted accordingly so that this process can proceed in accordance with all its objectives, which will only become possible - and truly effective - with the amendments suggested by the council here.
in writing. perhaps as a citizen of a member state which has benefited and still benefits from financial instruments promoting development and cohesion at european level, and as a witness to the real improvements which have resulted from them for my country, i believe i am in a position to understand the crucial importance of access to those instruments by the new member states and also by the candidate countries, such as croatia. i therefore think it is useful to amend the regulations which provide for these instruments so that this country can have satisfactory access to them as part of the pre-accession process which is now under way. the instruments in question (phare, ispa, sapard) could, during the period of validity of this financial perspective, contribute to structural improvement in the administrative, judicial, environmental, agricultural and transport sectors, preparing croatia for the adoption of the unified pre-accession instrument (ipa) which will be made available to it from 2007.
in writing. the essential reliability of statistical data suggests a widespread practice of agreements between different countries to ensure the validity of data used as indicators on various subjects, in particular by the fact that they are recognized and mutually validated. in the particular case of the swiss federal republic this question is of greater importance for reasons of neighbourliness.
in writing. this report is in line with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the field of statistics between the european community and the swiss confederation. as you know, the european union and switzerland have enjoyed close relations over the years, economically, socially and politically. the aim here is that these relations should also cover statistical cooperation. i am in full agreement with this aim, which, moreover, should have been achieved long ago on our part. in fact, switzerland was a signatory to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) and this agreement included statistical cooperation; but it was switzerland that could not ratify it because of a negative national referendum in 1992. the 1992 deadlock must be finally overcome, the negotiations decided on in 2000 must be concluded once and for all, and a full framework for cooperation with switzerland must be established, also in the statistical field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the giuseppe gargani report (a6-0045/2004) - euro-mediterranean partnership on a proposal for a council regulation on financial and technical measures to support the reform of economic and social structures in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership (meda) (codified version). simplification and clarification of community legislation are important factors in bringing the institutions closer to the citizens. the scattered nature of many provisions and their amendment make it difficult to achieve the transparency needed to understand community texts. the work of codification is praiseworthy and deeply necessary in a europe which must be at the service of the member states and its citizens and which therefore cannot work in the logic of obscurantism in the production of legislative texts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new codification of council regulation (ec) no 1488/96 and its subsequent amendments, which preserves the content of the codified acts in full. the intention to simplify and clarify community legislation in order to make it more accessible and easier for all parties to interpret and apply is thus fulfilled. this is an area which i have always considered to be of major importance for the future of the european union: to make european legislative and regulatory mechanisms more understandable, to make them better known and closer to the european citizens. as regards the substance, i would also recall that recently several european councils (lisbon, corfu and essen) have confirmed that the mediterranean area is a priority region for the european union and have adopted the objective of establishing a genuine and effective euro-mediterranean partnership.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to recodify decision 73/391/eec and its subsequent amendments and additions, in the context of the consultation and information procedures in the fields of credit insurance, guarantees and financial claims. there are no more than formal changes required by the coding process itself. in this case, codification is all the more important when the subject is of a particularly cross-border nature. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. particular attention should be paid to the accuracy of translations, bearing in mind that any inaccuracy may lead to legal uncertainty and, consequently, to a misapplication of the text.
in writing. the proposal is simply a codification of all existing community legislation on this subject, in order to ensure greater clarity and better understanding of the legislation. and it's important that you do. many directives have regulated a minimum level of crude oil and/or petroleum products. in general, all of them emphasize the fundamental importance of these products in the supply of energy products to the community, since they are products from third countries, the reduction of which in supply could have serious effects on the economic activity of the european community. in view of these aspects, this proposal seeks to facilitate the knowledge and understanding of the rules by european citizens and, more importantly, also seeks to create the necessary conditions to remedy any shortage of this indispensable energy source. as such, i vote in favour.
in writing. the proposal is part of a commission proposal on the future management of fisheries and the conservation of living resources in the baltic sea and the belts. the aim is to adapt the way in which the european union treats third countries which are parties to agreements on these maritime zones, in view of the recent accession of estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland to the european union. the management of fisheries and living resources in the baltic and belts is currently governed, until december 2005, by an agreement concluded in 1973 by the european community, the baltic states, poland and russia, known as the gdansk convention. as a direct consequence of their accession to the eu, these member states have withdrawn from the agreement, which means that it remains only between the eu and the russian federation. in view of this situation, the commission's proposal that the community itself should also dissociate itself from it is understandable. indeed, its continued existence would imply framing eu-russia relations in the context of an instrument designed for multilateral cooperation, which could be detrimental. i support the rapporteur in supporting the proposal, while at the same time subscribing to the concerns that the protection objectives... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. as this expenditure has already been validated by the court of auditors, which has obtained sufficient assurance that the accounts closed on 31 december 2003 are reliable and that the transactions concerned are, in general and overall, regular and legal, i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur's conclusion that, in view of the favourable opinions already given by the council (8 july 2004) and the commission (19 october 2004) and the compliance recognised by the court of auditors (13 may 2004), it seems reasonable and appropriate that the european parliament should give its favourable opinion to the secretary-general of the convention on the granting of discharge for the financial year 2003. i am naturally pleased with the transparency and, in the words of the court of auditors, the reliability of the accounts for the financial year. i also agree that the balance should be distributed proportionately among the three institutions which contributed to the convention's budget. i voted yes.
in writing. community guarantee to the eib on a proposal for a council decision granting a community guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans for certain types of projects in russia and the newly independent western states (nwis). the european union's foreign policy is expressed in this case by a 'neighbourhood policy' which will enable these countries to continue on the path of their economic, social and political development. i would like to stress that the eu's external lending capacity is an important instrument of foreign and development policy and therefore a powerful means of the eu's overall capacity to contribute to development and security in our immediate neighbourhood.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision which is part of the european commission's communication of march 2003 entitled 'an enlarged europe and its neighbours', which set out a strategy for creating a 'circle of friends': an area of shared values, stability and prosperity, and in which it is possible to achieve deeper economic integration. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2008-2013). i also considered this proposal to be appropriate insofar as it is in keeping with the spirit of the eu-russia summit in the hague on 25 november last, which was aimed at promoting strategic partnerships and deepening the 'four common spaces': a common economic area; a common area of freedom, security and justice; a common area of cooperation on external security; and a common area of research, education and culture.
in writing. this is the third readmission agreement concluded between the european community and a third country, as part of the so-called 'fight against illegal immigration'. the rapporteur stresses, and i quote, that 'the negotiations on readmission agreements have been going through difficulties, particularly because of the european union's problems in offering something in return for the agreements'. as we have been denouncing, it is basically a matter of expelling all the workers who, yearning for a better life, emigrate to another country, but who are confronted with a 'management' of human resources that sifts them, dismissing those it considers unnecessary. this is a procedure which is part of a logic of exploiting the workforce in a 'global' way, of which these agreements are only one of the visible faces. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. moreover, agreements of this kind, which have already been concluded with a number of countries, are of the utmost importance in the fight against illegal immigration, which, while being demanding that the law be strictly observed, also take care to ensure respect for human rights. reasons why i'm in favor of your approval.
in writing. on the basis of the amsterdam treaty, in the context of managing migratory flows, the tampere summit called for the union to develop 'assistance to countries of origin and transit with a view to promoting voluntary return and to assisting the authorities of these countries to strengthen their capacities to combat effectively trafficking in human beings and to assume their readmission obligations towards the community and the member states' (iv.26.). the agreement to which the proposal for a decision refers is aimed specifically at regulating the conditions under which the union and the sinhalese authorities will readmit persons who are not legally resident in the territory of the other party, a practice which the community would like to see included in all future agreements with third countries. well, that's my guess. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. i voted yes.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission was unable to obtain unanimous agreement in the council on its proposal for a directive on the simplification and rationalisation of reduced vat rates. the deadline for directive 1999/85/ec, which allows member states to apply a reduced rate of vat on labour-intensive services on an experimental basis, has therefore been extended successively, and now expires on 31 december 2005. the aim of this adaptation of the directive is to enable it to be applied to the new member states as a result of enlargement, which we think is the right thing to do. although the commission's evaluation report states that the effects of this measure are virtually nil and the cost-benefit ratio is poor, the commission's main objection is related to the difficulties in vat harmonisation, although it states that this measure does not distort the rules of the internal market. despite some reservations about the measure and knowing that it will not solve the problems of high unemployment in the european union, we think that this permission should be maintained for those member states that want to apply it permanently, with a view to making an additional contribution to job creation and to combating the parallel economy. let us hope that the new member states will contribute to this objective.
in writing. the council adopted on 22 october 1999 directive 1999/85/ec amending directive 77/88/eec with a view to the possibility of applying a reduced rate of vat to labour-intensive services on an experimental basis, allowing member states wishing to do so to test the effects of a vat reduction on these specific sectors in terms of job creation and the decline of the parallel economy. the experiment was eventually the subject of an evaluation report which revealed that it was not possible to identify a direct relationship between the reduction in vat rates and the reduction in unemployment and the shadow economy. the solution of lowering vat rates as a way of stimulating the labour market and reducing the shadow economy does not seem to me to be the best and most appropriate. however, the fact that the new member states were not allowed to apply reduced rates (the experiment was to be definitively concluded by 31 december 2003) led to an unfair situation. i voted in favour of this because i believe that the new member states should be given the same opportunity.
in writing. international fund for ireland on a proposal for a council regulation on the ec financial contributions to the international fund for ireland (2005-06). the fund is still very important in the reconstruction of areas devastated by the instability of decades of terrorism. their objectives remain pressing and at this historic moment in the negotiations for a lasting peace, the european union must show its solidarity with the irish people.
in writing. the international fund for ireland, set up in 1986 to contribute to the implementation of the anglo-irish agreement by promoting economic and social progress and encouraging contacts, dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists throughout ireland, has been extremely useful and positive in promoting economic and social development for peace and reconciliation in the region. the process of consolidating peace in northern ireland and the border region of ireland is again surrounded by threats and uncertainties, and the northern ireland assembly has been suspended. in this context, the promotion of peace through the economic and social development of the regions on both sides of ireland, a process which has been exemplaryly carried out at grassroots level by the international fund for ireland, is of increased importance. i therefore believe that the commission should adopt the proposal for a council regulation on community contributions to the international fund for ireland, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. respect for the principles underlying the rules of parliamentary immunity is fundamental to the functioning of a representative democratic institution. for this reason, the decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of a member should be accompanied by the necessary precautions. in the present case, the case is a judicial proceeding concerning conduct unrelated to political activity. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the report also calls for the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. as we have already said, the fundamental question is what this instrument will do: - whether it will enhance the value of a country's human resources; - whether it will enable the economically more developed countries to exploit more effectively the human resources of other countries by increasing the 'mobility' of workers. we are rightly concerned that this will lead to an increase in the immigration of technical and scientific staff to the more economically developed countries, and that this will lead to the creation of a european labour market, or even a european 'exchange' of skilled staff. it should be emphasized once again that the documents now proposed already exist as a result of cooperation with the council of europe and/or unesco. that is why we vote in favour of, but are critical of, attempts to undermine apparently positive objectives.
in writing. i congratulate mrs novak on her excellent work on the establishment of the single community framework for the transparency of qualifications and competences - 'europass'. the aim of this project is to create a uniform 'portfolio' of documents which will enable citizens to indicate their personal qualifications in a comparable way throughout the european union when applying for a job or a course. europass will facilitate mobility in europe for professional and learning purposes, which contributes to achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i support the creation of europass, as mobility is an important factor in creating better jobs and reducing the skills gap in the european labour market. i am sure that it will provide the necessary impetus to reduce the obstacles faced by european citizens in this field. i also stress the need not to prolong the legislative process and that is why i voted in favour of europass, which will allow it to enter into force as early as january 2005.
in writing. in the spirit of greater coordination, rationalisation and transparency of qualifications and competences, it is advisable to promote integration into a single framework of measures in the field of certification of qualifications, which does not concern the recognition of diplomas but only the simplification of the procedures for presenting qualifications and competences. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the aim of this legislative proposal, which is to create a uniform dossier of documents enabling citizens to indicate their personal aptitudes, skills and qualifications, is to promote the recognition on the labour market of periods of training and traineeship spent abroad, thus stimulating mobility in europe, both in terms of employment and for the purpose of apprenticeship. this project, in addition to encouraging the comparison of qualifications and skills, helps to achieve the lisbon 2000 objectives of making europe the 'most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world' by 2010. the europass, including documents relating to periods of apprenticeship in different countries, higher education qualifications, language skills and vocational training, contributes to a large extent not only to the above objectives but also to the qualitative improvement of general and vocational training in europe. it is a very positive measure of great importance for young people and should enter into force as soon as possible. i voted yes.
mr president, commissioner, seven years is a long time in the world we live in today. since the last financial perspective, the european union has undergone its largest enlargement ever and continued to develop its deepening with the entry into force of the treaty of nice and the signing of the constitutional treaty. in the last seven years, the world has become more globalized and societies more complex and more diverse. attitudes, habits, behaviors and even values have changed. it is therefore essential to adapt the financial perspective to the current political context and to the new realities of the world in which we live. with the decision on the financial perspective we have a unique opportunity to show a more ambitious vision for europe, a winning vision which i think the commission shares. we must therefore avoid at all costs reducing the objective of the financial perspective or the mere exercise of budgetary consolidation, as some seem to be intending. in this connection, i would like the commissioner to comment on three assumptions which i believe are fundamental to the financial perspective. first, the credibility. the political priorities linked to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy and european cohesion must be required to go hand in hand. secondly, the unequivocal statement of a break with previous practices. i am referring to the need to reform the european union's own resources. thirdly, the creation of imaginative solutions, such as making the money in the european union budgets also serve as leverage to mobilise other means from the financial sector, whether public or private.
we consider the commission's proposal for the next financial perspective to be clearly insufficient to respond to the current social, economic and environmental challenges, the needs for economic and social cohesion increased by enlargement, the high levels of unemployment and poverty found in the eu. quantitatively, they propose an average real expenditure of 1.09% of community gni, lower than agenda 2000 (1.10%) and earlier benchmarks; the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. in this debate, the question could be asked whether barroso confirms and aggravates prodi, since statements by the commissioners open the door to (re) negotiating downwards the already insufficient package, in line with the signatories of the 'letter of six' who want to impose a 1% ceiling on the community's gni to the budget, which has always deserved our opposition. we therefore want to make clear our rejection of financial perspectives whose annual average expenditure falls between the commission proposal and the ceiling of the 'letter of six', which is continually being brought closer together. finally, we support the maintenance of the financial framework for seven years, since even in this case it seems that the intention is to make the 'negotiation' ... downwards and for less.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the report which mr catania is presenting to us today calls into question the policy of repression and prohibition pursued by the member states. the rapporteur is calling for a change in the current strategy and it will not surprise anyone that we vote against this report. mr catania referred to the report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. mr estievenart was with us last month and he pointed out that, and i quote, 'there are positive signs of progress in reducing some of the most serious consequences of drug use'. he stressed that the number of drug-related deaths was beginning to fall. it noted that heroin use had stabilised in several countries, that the hiv epidemic among users had slowed down and, quote 'at the same time, it stressed that measures to reduce the harms associated with drug use had been stepped up and that users' access to treatment and complementary care had been increased. " this clearly shows that not everything was negative. there is still a lot to be done and despite all the policies we have been developing, there are still huge problems with the production and trafficking of drugs and with the consumption which continues to reach very high levels in all the member states. in the context of enlargement to the ten new member states, it is essential to intensify cooperation with the new border states. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is room for a european policy to combat drugs, a policy which prevents associated crime and which, as it is in the programme, meets the four major objectives: the prevention of drug use and dependence, the reduction of the supply of and demand for illicit drugs, the limitation of social and health damage and the reduction of crime. this is the path to which we are called. it's the path of combat, not the path of ease.
council. mr president, we are all aware of the fact that important decisions have to be taken at the coming european council. these decisions will pave the way for a further enlarged european union, as well as a further strengthening of policy areas that are of crucial importance for effective action by the european union on the challenges facing the world of today and tomorrow. the fifth round of enlargement did not end on 1 may this year. as reiterated by the european council in june, bulgaria and romania are an integral part of it. in its regular reports in october, the commission concluded that both countries should be ready to assume all membership obligations by 1 january 2007 and could sign the accession treaty early in 2005. the european council is expected to agree on these conclusions. the accession negotiations with both countries were formally concluded at the accession conferences yesterday. at the same time, bulgaria and romania will be encouraged to maintain the pace of their reforms until the time of accession. close monitoring by the commission will assist them in their preparations for accession. next, the final steps for the fifth round of enlargement. the european council will tackle the framework for future accession negotiations and the individual accession candidacies of croatia and turkey. in the future, specific frameworks for negotiations with each candidate country will take into account the experience of the past enlargement as well as the individual merits of the candidate country. on croatia, the european council is expected to welcome its progress in preparing for the opening of accession negotiations, but also to urge croatia to take the necessary steps for full cooperation with icty. the remaining indictee must be located and transferred to the hague as soon as possible. as far as turkey is concerned, the european council will assess whether it fulfils the copenhagen political criteria. on the basis of this assessment, the european council is expected to take a decision as to whether to start accession negotiations with turkey, while also providing for a framework for these negotiations. 1.1. as we know only too well, terrorism is and remains one of the greatest threats to all our societies. that is why the netherlands presidency has made security one of the main issues of its presidency. the june european council agreed on a new eu action plan to combat terrorism. now it will take stock of progress. there is no room for complacency, but overall we can be satisfied: considerable progress has been made, both inside the eu and in our external relations. this is shown by the updated eu action plan and several reports, dealing with specific issues of counter-terrorism measures. the council has agreed on setting up a border agency. passports will be safer through the use of biometrics. national capacity of anti-terrorism services will be strengthened and stricter controls on cash entering and leaving the union to combat the financing of terrorism have been agreed upon. in order to integrate intelligence capacity within the council, the situation centre has been enlarged and a secure communications link with europol has been established. member states will exchange information from criminal records, europol and eurojust will be better informed by member states concerning terrorist offences and there will be closer cooperation with selected third countries. i also mention the hague programme on freedom, security and justice, adopted by the european council on 5 november, which in the coming years will contribute substantially to the fight against terrorism. this does not mean, however, that we can sit back – on the contrary! the eu remains vulnerable and there is still much work to be done in implementing the eu action plan. in the next six months the eu will therefore continue its efforts. the multiannual strategic programme 2004-2006 issued a clear mandate to the netherlands presidency to take a decision on principles and guidelines in order to enable the eu to achieve political agreement on the financial perspectives by june 2005. six months of intense discussions under the netherlands presidency have resulted in clear principles and guidelines. they provide for a framework for the council to reach a general political agreement. the principles and guidelines will be accompanied by an elaborate progress report, which constitutes an overview of the positions of member states based on the legislative proposals, communications and further technical clarifications by the commission. an important part of this report is the 'building blocks', which have provided a useful structure for the discussions and have contributed to the process of moving towards a consensus according to the established time frame. the result of this approach is an analysis and a clear picture of the positions of member states in relation to policy content and financial implications. considering the work done and results achieved under the netherlands presidency, progress as scheduled should be within reach. we now pass the baton on to luxembourg, which will continue the discussion in a spirit of mutual understanding directed at finding a consensus acceptable to every member state. in this respect, let me also reiterate here that the important role of the european parliament in reaching an agreement with the council on the next multiannual financial framework is understood by all, and appropriate language will be included in the council's conclusions. at the european council meeting the eu drugs strategy 2005-2012 will be adopted. the strategy will be a key instrument to confront drug use and trafficking effectively with a view to ensuring a high level of health protection, wellbeing and social cohesion, as well as a high level of security for the general public. the strategy is based on a balanced approach towards supply and demand reduction. the commission will be requested to present an action plan based on this strategy for 2005-2008 to the council and the european parliament as soon as possible. i look forward to close cooperation with parliament in this area. the european council will welcome the progress made under the netherlands presidency in the field of immigration and integration. common basic principles for immigrant integration policy within the european union have been established. moreover, the need for common basic principles on integration, clear goals and means of evaluation mechanisms, and greater coordination of national integration policies and eu initiatives in this field is also underlined in the hague programme. in the field of external relations the european council will discuss four issues. first, we will address the situation in ukraine. i am glad that the parties concerned have reached an agreement on reform of the election laws and on a modification of the constitution. we have seen that these changes have brought the ukrainians a little closer to each other. we should now focus all our attention on the election process; because our goal remains free and fair elections, without external interference, where the ukrainian people can be certain that the election results reflect their will. that is also the best way to guarantee the absence of violence and to maintain the territorial integrity of ukraine. the second subject to be discussed is the middle east peace process. of course, in the short term attention will have to go primarily to the preparations for the palestinian presidential elections. but we should also keep in mind the longer-term perspective. therefore, we must ensure that the short-term actions fit into the framework of the road map, because both the israelis and the palestinians should return to the road map in order to be able to realise the long-term, final goal of a two-state solution. thirdly, the european security strategy was adopted a year ago and the european council will mark that. in the area of key threats and increasing the security in our common neighbourhood, the eu has achieved quite a lot. examples include our efforts in the field of non-proliferation vis-à-vis iran, and also the support package for iraq that we were able to offer prime minister allawi at the november european council. meanwhile, a number of challenges remain, for example the situation in darfur. for the implementation of the security strategy, relations with the us remain of vital importance and therefore ministers will discuss how we can further strengthen our transatlantic relationship. fourthly, the european council will also have a discussion with kofi annan, who will elaborate on a number of elements of the high-level panel's report. government leaders will then have an exchange of views with him, especially about the threats and challenges of our time and the millennium development goals, also in view of the major un event in 2005. the european council will endorse a number of conclusions adopted by the ministers for development cooperation in november. in general the european council will emphasise that the official development assistance of the european community needs to contribute in a coherent way to poverty eradication in all developing countries. the european council will also underline that the focus on the poorest should be increased, in particular in africa. the european council will also discuss the un high-level event in september 2005, when the world community will take stock of progress made towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. apart from the main themes on the agenda of the european council, other issues to be addressed are commonly shared values, consular cooperation, the eu human rights agency and the european external action service. on commonly shared values, the european council will note with approval the series of public debates hosted by the netherlands presidency, engaging participants with wide-ranging backgrounds and experience on the european identity and the concept of commonly shared values as the foundation of european integration and cooperation. on consular cooperation, the european council will confirm the commitments of the european union to intensify consular cooperation among member states. closer consular cooperation gives substance to the concept of european citizenship and helps member states to deal more effectively with an ever-growing demand for consular services and to face new challenges, such as the consequences of an increasing number of terrorist activities, including bomb attacks and hostage-takings. with a view to enhancing the coherence and consistency of eu human rights policy, the european council is expected to call for effective follow-up to the december 2003 decision to establish an eu human rights agency. on the european external action service, the european council will invite the secretary-general/high representative, together with the commission, to prepare a progress report on this preparatory work and to take appropriate steps to keep the european parliament informed. the netherlands presidency has made it its duty to ensure smooth and efficient cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament to make it possible to deliver on the issues to be discussed at the european council meeting. on 21 december prime minister balkenende will brief you on the outcome of the meeting. (applause)
commission. mr president, the forthcoming european council in brussels will be the first for the new commission. it will be an important meeting, marking the next steps in the process of building a larger, more prosperous and safer european union. it will be a sign of our ambition for a union which is dynamic and on the move; a union ready to share its destiny with the european family; a union which is concerned about the security of its citizens. i would hope that the spirit coming out of the european council later this week is one of cooperation. how else can we generate the trust in europe’s institutions and politicians that is needed for a smooth ratification of the constitution? we have heard from the presidency about its expectations and the issues that the summit will address. let me comment briefly on three issues: enlargement, the fight against terrorism and the financial perspectives. firstly, our policy of enlargement of the union has been the key in freeing us from our cold war past. the gravitational pull of the prospect of eu membership has transformed and modernised several post-communist societies. it has thus reshaped the european order. this was and remains an achievement of historic proportions that we should not underestimate. your house has been instrumental in supporting this process, but our enlargement is still incomplete. this european council will take the next steps for four countries, offering them the potential – through enlargement – to join the european mainstream. last october the commission made it clear that it should be possible to conclude the accession negotiations with bulgaria and romania in 2004. indeed, this negotiating process was closed yesterday, thanks to the increased efforts by the european union and by these two countries. i congratulate the netherlands presidency for its excellent work and close cooperation with the commission on that particular subject. the accession treaty for both countries now needs to be finalised and we hope that it can be signed after receiving the assent of this house during the spring of next year. in the remaining period up to accession, the commission will be watching closely to see that both countries deliver on the commitments made during the negotiations, and in some cases this will mean a further acceleration in their efforts. at the request of the european council, on 6 october the commission adopted its report on turkey and a clear recommendation. the main message in the commission’s assessment is that turkey has sufficiently fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria and that accession negotiations should now be opened. we consider this recommendation, which was very carefully prepared, to be well balanced and a good basis for a decision by the council. i am looking forward to taking comfort from the position your house will take on this question later today. turkey has made further progress in the last weeks. it has adopted five of the six pieces of legislation signalled by the commission in its report; the sixth law, on the execution of sentences, is pending before the turkish parliament. it is now time for the european council to honour its commitment to turkey and announce the opening of accession negotiations. a clear date should be indicated. we consider that, apart from the matters i have just mentioned, no other conditions ought to be added. the european council will no doubt wish to recall that political reforms will have to continue in the course of the negotiations and ask the commission to monitor further progress closely. we should also ask our turkish friends in all honesty: if you want to become a member of a club, is it not normal that you recognise the other members of the club? i am convinced that this will come at the right moment in the course of this difficult process, and preferably sooner than later. the objective of starting negotiations cannot be other than accession but we accept that the accession process is open-ended and its outcome cannot be guaranteed beforehand. as in the past, transitional arrangements and certain specific safeguards may need to be considered. but let me state what our ultimate challenge will be: in the end, we need not only to overcome diplomatic obstacles, but also to conquer the hearts and minds of european citizens on this issue. croatia represents the first of the western balkan nations preparing to start the process for accession to the union. the commission is ready to support the launch of such negotiations, but believes that any progress should be conditional on increased cooperation between the croatian government and the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. if such cooperation is confirmed, then negotiations can be started in 2005.
on behalf of the group. mr president, like all european councils, the next european council has very interesting topics. i'll say more. they are more than interesting, perhaps decisive for the collective future of our european union, and that is why there are the heads of state and government who participate, but also the president of parliament and the president of the commission. we must now ask for three indispensable attributes: ambition, adequate means and concrete ideas. and let's see what we mean by that in relation to each of these topics. if the process in bulgaria and romania seems to us to be a normal process and the result of a genuine effort by these two countries, although we are aware that romania will have to make a sprint in this final phase, if croatia is a case that is also clear to us - and it will be enough to have visited zagreb or dubrovnik to realize how interwoven it is in european culture - then the case of turkey is a special case, not only because of its geography but also because of its cultural and economic idiosyncrasy. the cyprus question cannot be sidelined in this negotiating perspective. but the opening of negotiations will undoubtedly clarify many of the issues which are currently doubtful or controversial for both sides and, in the end, it will be possible to assess more accurately what kind of union will be preferable for both sides. admittedly, alongside marriage, there are various types of de facto unions that may possibly be considered. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is certainly one of the important issues of the european council and its fight must be global and unrelenting. the european union must sanction rogue states which provide more or less legal sanctuaries for international terrorism without any hesitation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. there can be no hesitation or lack of resources in this matter. this brings me to the financial perspective. a dossier which, in our view, will determine whether or not europe intends to deepen its union. the means must match the ambition. jacques delors said so, and with good reason. it is also impossible to deceive the new members of our european union, or those who look to the union with hope as a lever for their democratic affirmation and development. let's get this straight. it is a fallacy to think that europe, the new europe, our europe, can be built with the resources of the past, and it is good to say that if ambition and solidarity are not going hand in hand at this summit and in the guidelines and directives that will be adopted, then we should be ashamed of our present leaders. mr president, that brings me to the external agenda. the council's services tell us that the council will discuss the middle east, iran, iraq, afghanistan, the mediterranean partnership and, i would probably add, the situation in ukraine, in darfur, relations with china and russia and even transatlantic relations. the question i ask myself is: with an agenda of which i have only mentioned a few topics, with the desire to have a common external service at the level of the european union, by what means are we going to try to influence the international scene? are we still a soft power? we are fighting for multilateralism without any chance of being active on the international scene, or will we have some relevant means and means so that we can finally stop being the political dwarf on the international scene? mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will end by saying as i began: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but if we don't have the triad of ambition -- the right means -- concrete ideas, we're talking like we're autistic. (applause from the epp group)
mr president, just a few days after the abolition of quotas in international trade in textiles and clothing, there is great concern about the future of thousands of companies and more than two and a half million workers, concentrated mainly in the southern countries of the european union, a sector which has already lost more than a million jobs in the last ten years. i regret that the debate we requested on this most important issue has not taken place in this parliament. it is essential to implement appropriate measures and not just to state possible actions to avoid the closure of enterprises, the unemployment of thousands of workers and the threat of poverty and social exclusion that hangs over large areas of high concentration of these industries, as is the case in portugal. which brings me to my question again: how will the consequences of the abolition of the quota system in the countries with the highest concentration of textile and clothing industry be taken into account in order to prevent further unemployment and to defend this important industry? i would ask the commissioner to refer this matter to the president of the commission, who did not deign to hear our question.
mr president, of the various subjects to be discussed at the next european council, apart from turkey, which we have already mentioned on other occasions, the fight against terrorism continues to assume enormous importance. the evaluation of the dutch presidency's action programme of june 2004 is proof of this. in the face of a threat to all, the most appropriate strategy is one that leads us to act together, going beyond the national level and even into the areas of justice and internal security. in fact, the way we deal with terrorism today is nothing like the way it was dealt with in the '70s and '80s. the events of 11 september 2001 brought about a radical change in security, confronting european countries with new responsibilities and new challenges, the urgency and seriousness of which was confirmed by 11 march. in a globalised world, politics, diplomacy, information, internal security and defence must complement each other to respond to these new types of threats. security has become a global and indivisible concept which today combines internal and external security, including support for third countries in the fight against terrorism. the european union and its member states have an obligation to rationalise their defence capabilities and to strengthen the means of diplomatic cooperation, intelligence services and judicial and police coordination, in a genuine synergy of national and transnational policies. as a portuguese member of parliament, i would like to stress that my government - then headed by mr barroso, now president of the commission - has transposed all the community legislation on the fight against terrorism and has taken the necessary operational measures to implement it. in this context, too, it is worth noting the option, which has just been taken up by the european parliament, of introducing biometric data in passports. as long as it is accompanied by the necessary precautions, this measure represents a strengthening of the mechanisms for preventing crime and thus of the strengthening of the security of citizens, which is our first objective. the various speeches on this subject in the run-up to the european council show that parliament wants to send a clear signal that this is the path which we must continue to pursue together without breaking.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, car theft is on the increase in europe and so is the feeling of insecurity among our citizens. europol confirms that of the more than one million cars stolen in 2002, less than 39% were recovered. we have already adopted and recommended a number of measures in this parliament. we did so in march and i congratulate the council on finally making some of them possible. better late than never. the proposal put to us by the netherlands is well-motivated but wrongly formulated. the text proposed to us should have been in the first pillar and not in the third. the european commission has been right on this point. some in this parliament have argued that it should be rejected for that reason. we had a different understanding in the civil liberties committee. we have removed from the text what would have to be exclusively the community pillar and made possible what can be covered by the intergovernmental pillar. in this fight, mr president, we have proved that the european parliament is in good faith and that it is sensitive to the growing problem of stolen cars and associated crime. but we are sending a message to the council: in future, the council and the member states should better respect the prerogatives of this parliament. a final word of thanks to all the members who have contributed proposals and advice and in particular to my colleagues in the committee on transport and to members emanuel jardim fernandes and corien wortmann-kool.
in writing. i voted in favour of opening the eu accession process for turkey, which does not imply deciding on the final outcome of that process, which will take years to negotiate. and i voted against a partnership statute, because that would mean that the eu would not honour its promises. i voted in favour, mainly because of the testimony of numerous turkish human rights defenders who confirmed that there were positive developments in the situation in turkey. clearly, these developments are not enough: there are still political prisoners, torture in prisons and much more to be done. but a breakdown in the process of opening negotiations at this stage would have disastrous consequences for the human rights situation in turkey. i voted in favour, although there has been no serious reflection on where and how far europe should go. because i reject the political and cultural boundaries of the 'christian club of europe' and the prophecies of a 'clash of civilizations'. i voted in favour, on the assumption that turkey cannot delay the recognition of the republic of cyprus, which is a member of the eu, nor the withdrawal of the part it occupies militarily. i voted in favour of turkey's recognition of the genocide of the armenian people, because i consider it essential for reconciliation with its neighbours and with its history.
in writing. this report continues to monitor developments in turkey in the light of the process of its eventual accession to the european union, as did the report adopted on 1 april last, for which mr oostlander was rapporteur. as i had the opportunity to write then, i consider that turkey was, perhaps hastily, recognised by the council as a candidate for membership. i also believe that the commission has recently made the same mistake by considering that the copenhagen criteria have already been met, when situations such as those listed in the motion for a resolution are still occurring, which directly contradict this position. i agree with the rapporteur's interpretation that it is necessary to stress the fact that this is an open process with no pre-defined outcome, even if it points in the direction of accession, and the wish that, regardless of its outcome, turkey will continue and consolidate the reforms it has been carrying out, which i welcome, thus affirming its role as a full, responsible democracy and a country that respects human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the initiatives in question, which are aimed at adopting a council decision on motor vehicle crime with crossborder repercussions, meet our concerns in the fight against crime. and although granting direct access to sis may seem to be in contradiction with the rule that 'data cannot be used for administrative purposes', the truth is that the necessary conditions for this to happen are safeguarded here.
in writing. theft and car theft are an important part of crime with cross-border implications at european level and deserve particular attention. it is also necessary to take account of the fact that this particular crime is often only part of wider criminal circuits, which cover various types of crime and are spread over large territorial areas. it is therefore clear that the circulation and registration of motor vehicles from other member states and also from third countries must be monitored with particular care. the rapporteur was right to note that the novelty of the dutch proposal is confined to the national contact points. i think it would be useful to check the effectiveness of their action and to review periodically the practices and methods to be adopted. the commission's preparation of a white paper on this subject, as proposed by the rapporteur, could provide a broader view of the subject under consideration.
in writing. we welcome the amendments made to the current recommendation for second reading in relation to the proposal presented last april, as they largely correspond to our proposals, namely: priority for public health and the protection of vulnerable groups such as children and newborns; the setting of maximum residue levels in products taking into account different climatic conditions and best available agricultural practices; information to the public on the health risks; the assessment of risks to consumers; the publication on the internet of the results of national waste control measures; the extension of the scope of the proposal to imported products; the possible involvement of civil society organisations in the setting of maximum residue levels. however, there is still a long way to go in this area, particularly as regards the implementation of a common agricultural policy which respects the existing cultural diversity, implementing policies which give value to small and mediumsized farming, and opposing the current imposition of measures which, while positive in their objectives, sacrifice and penalize farmers with fewer resources. the establishment of maximum residue levels for pesticides in foodstuffs for human consumption... (abbreviated voting statement pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. my position on this report was substantially positive because i considered that the reformulation and rationalization of community legislation in this area facilitates trade within the internal market and with third countries, and that this change does not cause any damage to the portuguese perspective.
in writing. the proposal is to reform community legislation on pesticides by replacing the four existing directives with a single regulation. at the same time, it is intended to secure some fundamental objectives, such as establishing a uniform level of consumer protection throughout the community, in particular by defining the role of the european food safety authority (efsa), and increasing food trade within the european union. i believe that important steps have been taken from the first to the second reading, in particular by the adoption by the council of amendments proposed by the european parliament and also by the introduction of amendments on its own initiative which have frankly improved the commission's initial proposal. i believe, however, that there are still aspects which can be clarified, in particular the distinction between residues (in the context of maximum residue limits) and pesticides. on the other hand, i also agree with the rapporteur that situations where mrls are exceeded should entail consequences for those responsible and that subgroups likely to consume a higher amount of a given type of product should be protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i understand that what is at stake here, the relations between the european union and russia - which is a major international player and the most important neighbour of many of the countries covered by our neighbourhood policy - is of the utmost importance for the future of the space we share across the european continent, as well as for some concerns of a relatively global nature. i would also like to stress that, despite the caution with which this is being said, the concern expressed about russian interference in countries which once belonged to its sphere of influence should be considered positive.
in writing. the strategic importance of the european union's relationship with the russian federation is undeniable and the ongoing initiatives to promote and institutionalize it are welcome. the common borders and converging interests contribute to the creation of a wide area of understanding, and there is a mutual interest in maintaining a permanent dialogue covering, in particular, the areas proposed for the four common areas: economic, freedom, security and justice, cooperation in the field of external security, research and education. i am not forgetting the worrying signs regarding human rights and civil liberties that have emerged in russia, particularly in relation to political processes and procedures, as well as the chechen question. the same applies to the unwise measures taken by moscow, both recently in ukraine and earlier in georgia and belarus, which have done nothing to improve the political processes in those countries. i am aware of and understand the desire expressed by russia to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the second world war, but i strongly disagree with the idea that the conquest of democracy and freedom should be equated with the criminal totalitarian subjugation to which all the peoples east of the iron curtain have been subjected.
in writing. the two communications which the commission has presented to us on the common asylum policy are of a very positive nature, in that they aim to establish high standards for the application of the current directives in the eu, providing for the possibility of revision, and in that they seek to improve the conditions of the vast majority of refugees in the region where they are settled. i welcome the commission's proposals to improve the evaluation procedure by adopting a single procedure, simplifying the process for the applicant and at the administrative level. improvements are being made in training, in-country assessment and related information, and in judicial procedures. the additional measures proposed to manage legal entry into eu territory and which could contribute to reducing trafficking in human beings, as well as the intention to establish high-quality protection regimes in host countries, are also welcome. however, i cannot agree with some of the proposals put forward by mrs lambert in her report, and i shall therefore vote against them. one of the main reasons why i rejected this report is that it seeks to extend the scope of the directive on minimum standards of procedure (short explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure).
in writing. while we do not support and even criticize some aspects of this owninitiative report by the ep, such as its basic supranational perspective or its belief in the common foreign and security policy, we also value its positive aspects. we believe that the resolution, which is part of the current policies developed at eu level, is very timid in its criticism and does not clearly denounce the consequences of the current asylum policy at eu level, although it does, among other things, point out that this threatens 'the humanitarian tradition of europe' and criticises the so-called 'outsourcing' of the application for refugee status to a third country, as well as the delay in responding to such an application. the resolution includes a number of issues which we consider to be positive, such as strict respect for international standards, including the principle of non-refoulement (allowing the applicant for refugee status to enter the country where the application was made), the rejection of the financing of detention camps or any other centre which restricts the individual freedom of asylum seekers, and the end of the policy of repatriation and readmission aimed at expelling immigrants to their countries of origin, as proposed by our group. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague jean denise lambert on the important and timely report she has produced on the asylum and protection process in regions of origin, which i support, particularly as regards the creation, complementary to the current common european asylum system, of, on the one hand, measures to better organise the orderly entry into the eu of persons in need of international protection and, on the other hand, measures to strengthen the protection capacity in regions of origin. in this way, an early protection is sought for asylum seekers and refugees who, in view of the delays in processing asylum applications, especially in crisis situations, may resort to illegal means of movement and may endanger their personal safety. statistics show that in 2003, some 70% of refugees remained in their region of origin. it is therefore imperative to provide greater and better protection in these regions, without compromising the eu's responsibilities to provide protection under international agreements.
in writing. my assessment of this report was influenced by the following main factors: on the one hand, i am in favour of some of the essential issues, particularly when it comes to establishing universal standards for the application of existing directives, as well as advocating the improvement of conditions for the vast majority of refugees in their countries of origin. i also disagree with one fundamental point: the application of asylum procedures to other situations of subsidiary protection. my final vote was against, as a result of the vote on some amendments which i considered to be fundamental.
in writing. the approach to asylum issues has been oscillating between two extreme views which have in practice proved ineffective in solving the problem. in fact, the notion of a fortress europe and a sanctuary europe lacks a close relationship with reality. they're both cartoons. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. at a time when the area of freedom, security and justice is being affirmed, i think it is appropriate to tackle this issue and involve the countries of origin and transit in the problems at hand. although i appreciate the generosity of the rapporteur's proposal, i cannot vote for it, because as regards the granting of refugee status, the rapporteur is no longer confining it to individual cases but extending its scope to cases of subsidiary protection, which raises doubts about the adequacy and proportionality of the proposal.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against drugs, and for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the eu drugs strategy, which will be adopted by the next european council in june 2004. he adds - and this makes sense in his logic - that he does not consider the principle of subsidiarity to be very important in this matter. that's not my understanding of what the anti-drug strategy should be. i voted against the motion.
in writing. the tangential approval of this report by the committee indicates that the rapporteur has departed from the european strategy to combat drugs by proposing an approach to the problem which, in my view, not only does not solve it but aggravates it. in fact, it is no longer new in this house to try to present the liberalisation of consumption, the absolutization of the idea of harm reduction and the adoption of a speech of surrender in the face of trafficking as solutions. this practice has a long history and is still commonly associated with the effort to impose it on the member states, in direct conflict with the principle of subsidiarity, which must continue to apply to this matter, despite the need for coordination in the fight against trafficking. the proposed laxity and decriminalisation are known forms of disempowerment of public authorities and are a false ally of those whose will and decision-making capacity are diminished by the effect of drugs, and are a profoundly wrong signal to the younger generations. it is ironic that the rapporteur invokes fundamental rights and claims to oppose an 'ideological approach' to this issue in order to justify an eminently ideological position, which is, in fact, contrary to basic fundamental rights.
the next item is the debate on the report (b6-0136/2004). we are discussing the questions to the council today. i would like to make this clear beforehand: under our rules of procedure, when a member who has registered for a question cannot be present, he must personally request to be replaced by an alternate. the bureau cannot therefore accept substitutions requested by third parties, in particular by the secretaries-general of the political groups. the requests for replacement by our colleagues who tabled questions 4 and 7, mr aylward and mr ryan, are therefore inadmissible and, if they are not present at the time of their questions, they will be considered as obsolete. before the minister answers the first question, i would like to remind the house that, as president vidal-quadras informed us this morning, this session will have to be adjourned at 6.30 p.m. due to the urgent commitments of the council representative.
question no 1 by witold tomczak (h-0416/04) subject: measures to abolish the duty on primary aluminium imported from russia many companies in the new member states importing aluminium from russia and the cis have appealed to their meps to take action to eliminate or reduce the 6% tax. in connection with this restriction, the economic situation in this branch of polish industry deteriorated significantly, which resulted in higher production costs and product prices, and this in turn led to a decline in the competitiveness of polish enterprises in the harsh european market. the option of duty-free aluminium from countries with appropriate agreements with the eu is not profitable for smes. will the council take urgent action to protect polish firms threatened with closure?
question no 2 by antonio lópez-istúriz white (h-0420/04) subject: relations between the eu and the european region of the pyrenees and the mediterranean on 29 october, the european region pyrenees-mediterranean (catalonia, aragon, the balearic islands, the southern pyrenees and languedoc-roussillon) was established as an area for cooperation between regions, particularly in the fields of railway, aeronautical, logistics, innovation and research infrastructures, with the ambition of opening its doors to new regions. the european region will have no political content, since this is foreign to the very concept of the new legal entity created, whose efforts are aimed at the cooperation already mentioned. in this connection, can the council indicate what role the european union will recognize in this european region and, more specifically, what participation it will be granted in the context of community policies? in addition, can the council indicate what management and control capacity will be allocated to the european pyrenees-mediterranean region in respect of community funds earmarked for and to be used for regional promotion and development?
question no 3 by mr papadimoulis (h-0422/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: unilateral recognition of fyrom by the united states as the 'republic of macedonia' the day after the presidential elections and in complete disregard of the european union and greece, the united states government unilaterally and suddenly recognized fyrom under the name of 'republic of macedonia'. this action is sabotaging the ongoing dialogue under the 'transitional agreement' under the auspices of the un secretary-general to find a commonly accepted designation for fyrom. given the european union's support for the dialogue process based on the 'transitional agreement', what initiatives does the council intend to take to effectively pursue the dialogue to find a mutually satisfactory solution to this problem?
question no 4 is therefore adjourned since its author is not present.
question no 6 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0428/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: safety at sea can the council state what measures have been taken to improve maritime safety in europe following the erika disaster and clearly state what initiatives it intends to take to improve maritime safety in the coming years?
question no 7 is therefore adjourned since its author is not present.
question no 9 by mairead mcguinness (h-0437/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the situation in darfur and the action of the sudanese government in darfur, hundreds of people die every day from hunger, disease and abuse that show no signs of abating. seventy thousand people have already lost their lives and hundreds of thousands more are still at risk. innocent civilians continue to be attacked and the number of displaced people grows as people flee violence. the populations live in constant fear of attacks and depend on humanitarian assistance for food, drink and survival. the continuing violence and insecurity are seriously undermining the humanitarian effort, blocking access to many areas, thus increasing the suffering and putting the lives of innocent people at risk. in view of the gravity of the situation, what is the council doing to ensure that this crisis is recorded and remains at the top of the european union's priorities? what is the council doing to ensure that the sudanese government respects international law and the agreements signed with the un agencies?
question no 10 by ewa hedkvist petersen (h-0438/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: driving under the influence of alcohol there was a tragic accident in sweden recently where a heavily intoxicated lorry driver who had just left the ferry in trelleborg drove off the rails, killing five people in two cars travelling in the opposite direction. different approaches to the alcohol problem and different rates of alcoholism in different european countries make it more difficult to solve the problem of drunken drivers and to prosecute them. this is particularly true in the context of international traffic. in 2001, on a proposal from the eu commission, the council of ministers decided to recommend that member states introduce a maximum alcohol content of 0.2 g/l for professional drivers. the recommendation was adopted in place of a directive on a common maximum limit for the alcohol content of road traffic. to date, which countries have applied this ceiling? will the council assess its recommendation and what results at community level have been achieved from the observance of the limits set out in the recommendation?
question no 11 by mr nikolaos vakalis (h-0441/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: exclusion of public expenditure on research from the calculation of the maximum authorized government deficit the eu's ambition to become the most competitive economy in the world (the lisbon agenda) requires a significant increase in the allocations for european research policy. research expenditure is strategic for the eu in that it is an investment in its survival in a highly competitive international environment. however, statements about this ambitious european research policy are hardly compatible with the restrictions imposed by the stability and development pact, which prohibits member states from increasing public expenditure beyond 3% of gdp. in order to encourage member states to make available 1% of gdp for public funding of research policy, i believe that this amount should not be taken into account in calculating the 3% of gdp limit imposed by the stability pact. does the council agree that public expenditure on research is a strategic expenditure of high priority for the eu and that as such it is justified to exclude it from the criteria of the pact? the argument that such a decision will set a precedent for a number of other exceptions (e.g. military expenditure) is not tenable given that the strengthening of research is a planned european strategic objective without any analogy with other national or european objectives.
we have reached the end of question time and we are also coming to the end of the dutch presidency. i believe that this is the last time that mr nikolaï is joining us in this question time to the council and i would like to address a special word of greeting and thanks to him for his collaboration with the european parliament during his presidency and to wish him the best of luck in this final stage, especially in the next few days which i am sure will be very demanding. questions 12 to 31 will be answered in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 6.35 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world must be one of the priorities of the union's external relations. we are encouraged by our own universal understanding of the notion of humanity and of the whole human being, but also by the knowledge that the democratic world is also a freer world, a world that is more apt to be just, a world that is able to build justice freely and therefore a more peaceful world, a more secure world. that is, by committing ourselves strongly to the european initiative for democracy and human rights we are at the same time promoting democracy and peace, humanity and security. we must never lose sight of him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. after a few years of experience, some reflections should be made. the european parliament should be more closely involved in the programmes specifically developed and supported in this context. it is a question to which the amendments to the regulation now proposed will provide a sufficient answer if the european commission, as we hope, accepts them in good faith and gives the new guidelines a broad and extensive interpretation, and enters into a new level of open and intensive relations with parliament. that is our appeal. but we must also give some signals on other points which concern us most. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the short term. i believe that the latter is the right way. the notion of human rights is becoming more and more broad and also sometimes more vague and there could be a temptation to use these instruments for anything and everything. that would be the wrong way to go in my view, reducing the effectiveness of what we do and leading to a waste of resources, which are scarce, or to duplication of instruments. there are many other instruments for cooperation and development policies with third countries, but these instruments of the european initiative for democracy and human rights are eminently political and should be concentrated primarily in the service of the promotion of democracy and that basic core of civil and political rights, freedom of conscience and religion, of expression and debate, the separation of powers and the rule of law, the free organisation and action of political parties and civil society, the possibility and regular effectiveness of free and fair elections and the vitality of open and plural societies. on the other hand, we must also be able to define priorities in terms of regions of the world or countries because of the particular strategic impact of the actions we support. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. 2) because these are situations which can have a positive multiplier effect at regional level in terms of democratisation and stabilisation; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). finally, we must also ask ourselves whether we are heading towards increasing bureaucratization and officialdom in the implementation of these policies or, on the contrary, whether we are going to be able to make these instruments more agile. that is what i am asking the commission to do. someone who's willing to take risks and who sets the tone for a bolder, bolder, more incisive execution. bureaucracy and bureaucracy would render these instruments totally useless for a simple and intuitive reason. we cannot rely on dictators to facilitate the promotion of democracy in their countries. so we need to be agile and know how to get our support right where it's needed, right where it's needed, right where it makes a difference.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately we are all in agreement on this matter and i therefore also agree with what has been said by previous speakers. we consider that the extension of this action programme is essential and we also consider it important that in these two years 2005-2006 the commission can make a proper assessment of the current programme and prepare a new and more ambitious instrument for action, taking into account the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 and the needs identified in the meantime. new problems require new answers. we therefore also support mr papadimus' report and appreciate the work he has done and naturally support the commission's proposal to extend the programme, although we believe that, in view of the objectives of the programme and its extension to ten more member states, the financial increase should be higher. the importance of civil protection is growing. the protection of persons and property is a necessity and requires considerable resources. in recent years, as has already been mentioned, there have been a number of natural disasters or criminal acts which have affected the people and the economy of the countries affected, such as the prestige accident, the floods in southern france, the terrorist attack in madrid, the forest fires in spain and portugal, and as a portuguese woman you will understand that i have a particular sensitivity to this matter. as i have already said, greater financial support would be desirable to prevent and remedy similar situations. for example, in portugal alone, 400,000 hectares of forest were burned in 2003 and about 170,000 hectares in 2004. it is therefore essential that the next action instrument should provide for more significant financial support. the environment is priceless and our forests cannot continue to disappear. we have an obligation to preserve them for future generations. we must not forget that the land does not belong to us, it is borrowed from our children. preventive and curative measures must therefore be strengthened. as regards prevention, the european union must be more involved, in conjunction with national, regional and local administrations, in strengthening technical and financial support to prevent these annual disasters. prevention is better, because it will always be more effective and cheaper than cure. as regards remedial measures, it is essential to strengthen coordination and monitoring, in particular with regard to reforestation of burnt areas. it is important to remember that the restoration of the mediterranean forest can take almost a hundred years. there are sectors where we cannot save. in the case of civil protection, saving can mean that we become irretrievably poorer and our collective future is severely compromised.
commission. mr president, i have noted with great interest the views expressed by members. i share most of your concerns and most of your views. however, as i have already said, the commission felt that there was a need for immediate action. some of you said that this compromise has been rushed through. but at the same time, some of you said that this has been pending for more than ten years. i believe, therefore, that we had an obligation to find a solution as soon as possible, without just saying that we would not continue these efforts for improvement. it is true that member states can do more. they can adopt stricter rules, not just for animals originating from their territory but also for transit animals. so there could be, through this, a possibility of stricter regulations covering a much wider area and affecting much more transport. as far as the subsidies are concerned i must remind parliament that even though we do not have the right – because of various international agreements – to legislate on movement of animals outside the territory, nevertheless the european union has linked the export subsidies to animal welfare requirements during transport. therefore to link the two is a substantial step as it brings compliance to a great extent, even though not through immediate legislation. i agree that implementation is very important. we will put greater emphasis on the issue of travel times, including all the other improvements that need to be made. we will gather enough scientific evidence to be able to convince even those who are reluctant at this stage. therefore we will continue to monitor the situation and get this evidence that can be used in a future proposal. on the staging point, this regulation has increased both the welfare situation and the bio-security situation. even though i understand and share the disappointment of many of you with regard to this regulation, at the same time, we must not, through this emotional approach, disregard significant improvements that have been made to the regulation. travel times are very important – that is why they were included in the commission proposal; but conditions during travel are just as important. they are being improved and dealt with in the regulation. the commission examined the legal problems referred to in the way in which the decision was taken. i can assure you that we checked with the legal services and everything was done in a proper legal way. while i share your concerns, we feel that this was a good compromise. it has gone the right way. some of us might have wanted to go one step further, or take one step less, but it is nevertheless going in the right direction. the commission will continue to monitor and follow the implementation. implementation is in the hands of the member states. agreement on any future proposal coming from the commission will again, in the final analysis, be in the hands of the member states. therefore it is something on which parliament and the commission have to work together.
commission. mr president, i thank mr ribeiro for his report on the proposal to protect deep-water coral reefs from the effects of trawling in certain areas of the atlantic ocean. this is the first time i have addressed the plenary of this parliament and it is satisfying that the first proposal that i am dealing with is focused upon the protection of deep-water coral reefs – an issue of great importance to us all. doubtless, we will have many an occasion in future, both within this plenary and within the committee on fisheries, to discuss issues not only relating to conservation and the preservation of fish stocks but also relating to issues such as deep-water coral reefs. having studied the scientific evidence and considering the irreversible damage that certain fishing gear can cause to these unique habitats, we propose in this regulation to ban the use of bottom trawls and similar trawl gear in the areas concerned. with this proposal, we fulfil the commitment given at the fisheries council of 23 october 2003, when the new 'western waters' regulation was approved to ensure protection for these habitats. i am happy to note that the rapporteur recommends that parliament approve these measures, as does the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in its opinion. the commission welcomes the adoption of measures to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems. they show our determination to work for the integration of environmental concerns in the common fisheries policy, as envisaged in the reform of 2002, and as repeatedly called for by public opinion. i turn briefly to the amendments proposed in the report before us. i can accept amendments 1, 2 and 3. however, i have difficulty in accepting amendment 4, since it is not in line with the legislation on the mandate that is given to regional advisory councils. these councils are to be consulted on the development of proposals for legislation, but consultation of them is not envisaged on the implementation of such legislation. as for amendment 5, the commission has difficulty accepting the substance of this amendment as it is currently worded. the commission is bound to review all proposals in the light of new scientific evidence. hence, obliging the commission to do so in a specific timeframe could also work against the spirit and purpose of the proposal. furthermore, we need to be conscious of the fact that the production of scientific evidence is very much dependent on the member states and, therefore, the commission is not in a position to guarantee its availability as prescribed in the amendment, that is, within a specified timeframe. on amendment 6, the commission notes that while it could find such an amendment acceptable, it is not really necessary since the geographical application of the regulation is well known and already established. as for amendment 7, in accordance with scientific advice, the main threat to the very fragile deep-water habitats is bottom trawling. damage caused by other gear, in particular specific gear such as gillnets and longlines, may be real, but is very minor compared to the erosion effects of trawls. furthermore, extending the prohibition on trawling throughout the european economic zone would appear to be excessive, i.e. would appear not to be proportionate since the majority of this area does not have submarine features threatened by fishing. in these circumstances, the commission is not in a position to accept amendment 7. finally, the commission has difficulty accepting amendment 8, because it would create a duplication of effort. comprehensive revisions of the status of deep-water features are currently being carried out by the international council for the exploitation of the sea, ices. this is considered to be sufficient.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the preparation, discussion and vote in committee of this report was an almost surprising process of learning, illustrating that one is always in time to learn, to learn always. an activity that i only knew superficially, i confronted and above all enriched everything that, in theory, the papers and the study could provide us. by contacting and informing myself of those who are connected with the activity, those who make their living from it, those who study it in depth and seriously, those who have responsibilities in it, i have learned a lot, and i know that much remains to be learned. i have been asked three questions, starting from the need to protect the environment which was under attack and was in danger of being attacked more. what predatory activities should be moderated or prohibited? to what extent? under what jurisdiction? after much listening and much reflection, i became convinced that a ban on bottom trawling would be insufficient to protect coral reefs and other formations where i survey the hot springs. i've been proven that the art of bottom-dwelling is just as predatory or even more so. that's why i explicitly included it. why the resistance to this inclusion? why do powerful interests use it? because, the commission argues, there will be insufficient scientific evidence to prove the harmfulness of this art. however, if that were the case, the precautionary principle should be used. the delimitation of the areas to be protected is defined in the commission proposal by the criterion of degrees of longitude and latitude. i regard this option as political rather than technical, at least not only technical and with a strong political significance. the non-use of the criterion of miles from the coast serves to disregard or to minimize the link to national exclusive economic zones as something to be forgotten. after the negotiation of the regulatory replacement after the period which ended in november 2003, from 200 to 12 then to 50 to reach 100 miles, the failure in the commission proposal to take account of the situation created in the 100 to 200 mile zone is, in my view, serious and must be corrected. which brings us to the key issue of jurisdiction. firstly, the mere omission of the national jurisdictions of spain and portugal, which was not omitted in the previous proposal when it came to the jurisdiction of the united kingdom over the formation of the darwin mounds reefs off the coast of scotland. does this mean that the united kingdom is being given a jurisdiction which is being denied or forgotten or hidden for spain and portugal? this leads to the truly delicate and fundamental questions that life imposes when confronted with the concrete. before the ratification of the constitutional treaty, this proposal completes the principle of the european union's exclusive competence for the conservation of marine biological resources. this decision is highly controversial and we find it unacceptable, since it replaces national and regional competence over part of the national territory, even though it is covered by community competence and has exclusive status. the balance between exploitation and conservation is obviously at stake. this balance was achieved when fishing was not industrial and predatory and the conservation of marine biological resources was under national and regional jurisdiction, and its replacement is therefore not justified by the need to correct incorrect or lax practices. (iii) there are two types of fishing, coastal fishing and, more or less, or even semi-artisanal and industrial fishing, the former being penalized, with serious social consequences and regional economies, by the predatory nature of the latter, which, due to its economic and political power, will continue its activity more readily; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my report and the amendments which i tabled in the plenary to reaffirm it have the intention which i have tried to make clear in this speech, awaiting the vote of this house. i am grateful for that vote and i am very grateful for all the help and cooperation i have had in putting this report forward.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, which has received the favourable opinion of the committee on fisheries of this parliament, is intended to prevent the use of a fishing gear which is highly damaging to very fragile marine systems such as deep-sea corals, which, in addition to their specific richness for biodiversity, are also important ecological niches for various organisms at various stages of their life. the commission considers that this protection covers the boxes around madeira, the azores and the canary islands, the outermost archipelagos where small-scale fishing has been practised for centuries and has allowed not only the conservation of species but also the maintenance of important fishing communities. at a time when there is growing concern about the maintenance of fisheries resources and when several recovery plans are being initiated in areas devastated by overfishing, the sustainable fishing that is practised in these archipelagos must be encouraged and supported and safeguarded by all of us. and we're talking about areas where there's no continental shelf, and as such, the places where fishing can be done are just the small seamounts that are usually associated with these deep corals. you can say that off these islands there is a lot of water but not a lot of fish or a lot of fishing grounds. it is therefore essential that these areas be safeguarded and protected from industrial fishing activities with erosive, highly erosive characteristics. the emergency measures already in place are helping, but we must have lasting solutions and this commission proposal is to be commended. however, the amendments which seek to extend the ban on nets to deep-sea fishing make perfect sense to me. because of their depth and risk of loss, they can cause ghost fishing and also erosion of the seabed, putting the ecological balance of deep-sea corals at risk. i therefore believe that the proposal to ban gillnets should be extended to include the 200-mile zones, because this proposal is about maintaining what was not there until very recently. i can assure you, in full knowledge of the facts, that by approving these proposals we are contributing to the protection of the environment and to that sustainable fishing which we want to see based more on precaution than on recovery.
on behalf of the group. mr president, allow me to address a special greeting to the commissioner on his first speech and to wish him the best in the performance of the extremely important and difficult tasks which he has been entrusted with. but let me also say that in this proposal it is indeed incomprehensible to me that, after the mistake of liberalizing bottom trawling and bottom trawls a year ago in the 1954 regulation, this mistake is not corrected with regard to bottom trawls. we need only read the documents produced by the european commission which are absolutely conclusive in stating that bottom trawling is extraordinarily harmful and predatory on the environment for us not to understand how the european commission wants to impose this practice in the autonomous region of the azores where it was never allowed. this is a regression in nature conservation imposed by the european commission, by the european institutions, which has no meaning, which has no acceptance. i would ask you, commissioner, to think this over more carefully.
i would like to express my support for the report by mr ribeiro and the proposals contained in it. ensuring the sustainability of marine biological resources is also the best way to protect the most threatened of all species in some areas of the union, namely man himself. many of the fishing communities in some coastal areas of the union, such as the azores or madeira, have no other alternative for their maintenance or survival. in this case, it is the european commission itself which recognises that we are dealing with very sensitive ecosystems, which are under great threat and which it is urgent to protect, especially as there is still a considerable lack of information about them. the mere fact of this is reason enough to take all the preventive measures necessary to prevent the destruction of these habitats. the proposals put forward by the rapporteur go in that direction. they therefore deserve my vote in favour and i call on the house to do the same.
in writing. as is well known, the flexibility instrument, with a ceiling of eur 200 million, is intended to enable the financing of specifically identified expenditure in a given budgetary year which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more of the other headings. this is a mechanism of great importance for meeting emerging needs. i also believe that it is essential that the union, by using the flexibility instrument, should support its involvement in the rehabilitation, reconstruction and stabilisation of iraq, as promised at the madrid ministerial conference, and that it should also support the process of consolidating peace in the republic of ireland, which has been experiencing increasing instability. as regards the question of decentralised agencies, i believe that the time has come to find a structural solution to the ever-increasing amount of funding they require, reconciling their funding with the needs of internal policies. on the globe, i voted yes.
in writing. this proposal for rejecting the 2005 budget, which our group has tabled and to which we have made a significant contribution, is not only timely but also consistent. it helps to clarify the responsibilities of political forces which, while sharing criticism, are not consistent in action. so we regret the rejection of the rejection. this is timely, because this is the first full year of an enlarged eu with additional cohesion requirements, and a key year in the debate on the financial perspectives for 2007-13. it is therefore unacceptable for the community budget for 2005 to exceed only 1% of community gni (in thousands of percentage points!) for psychological reasons, concealing the clear consistency with the objectives of the signatories of the "charter of the six", following the 2004 budget, the lowest since 1987, in relative terms. consistent, because we already rejected the 2000 budget at the beginning of the current financial framework, and five years later our criticisms are confirmed: insufficient resources for economic and social cohesion; under-financing and lack of adequate programmes in the fields of employment, social affairs, the environment and cooperation; problems of implementation and lack of transparency; above all, a budget subject to the dictates of the stability pact, and "savings" to finance enlargements with the same financial resources and other priorities such as war and propaganda.
in writing. i was an active participant in the conciliation meetings which led to agreement on the eu budget for 2005. it is a matter of pride and satisfaction. a failure of the negotiations on the first enlarged eu budget would have been a bad political signal to the european citizens. it would be a sign of inability to rule the 25. all community policies will be adequately financed in 2005, in line with the priorities set. compared with 2004, this budget will increase by 6.5%, exceeding the symbolic value of 1% of gni. the council, the ep and the commission agreed in a statement that the pace of payments would be reviewed in mid-2005 and that the budget lines concerned would be reinforced if necessary. portugal's priorities are financially covered in 2005. regional and cohesion policy is strengthened, as is the common agricultural policy with its pilot projects, and the increase in funds for the conclusion of fisheries agreements. a budget is proof of the credibility of the objectives set. it is no use making big political statements without providing the funding to make those intentions a reality. the 2005 budget is therefore a credible instrument.
in writing. our position is clear and well known: we are against the war and the american-british occupation of iraq and we demand the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from that country. this is the position which justifies the rejection of the european union's financing of the reconstruction of iraq from its community budget. we are obviously in favour of increasing humanitarian and food aid to the iraqi people, but we cannot accept that aid is used to legitimize what has happened and to benefit the aggressor. apart from positions of principle, it is not acceptable that this aid should be financed at the expense of the european union's cooperation and development policy, that is, at the expense of the least developed countries, just as it is not acceptable that there should be no multiannual framework, as happened in the case of the balkans. we know that this report deals with the type of financing to be adopted, that is, how to mobilise an additional eur 185 million, which would otherwise have to be found by re-allocating other budgetary chapters. we also know that the additional amounts will be used to finance the peace programme and the decentralised agencies and that the agreed amounts are less than necessary and do not address the financing needs.
in writing. in line with our proposal to reject the community budget for 2005, we voted against this report, which reflects the degree of hypocrisy and whitewashing that has been going on in the budgetary procedure that is now ending. parliament criticised the council for reducing payments in agriculture, for not accepting its proposals, for not being available to assess the needs of the european agencies and for forcing it to make cuts at the first reading. reasons enough for rejection. despite this 'scenario', parliament welcomes the agreement reached with the council at the conciliation meeting on 25 november and whitewashes the process by claiming that its efforts have 'avoided drastic cuts' and maintained its traditional priorities, which is patently false. unfortunately, this has been the story of all budgetary processes since 2000, where the flexibility instrument has been used for five consecutive years, showing the correctness of the cfp proposal to revise the current financial perspectives. every year, in the name of the sacrosanct stability pact, parliament accepts terms which even call into question its budgetary powers. which begs the question, then, why reinforce them if you don't exercise them?
in writing. i repeat what i said at the first reading, that i regret that this draft budget for the financial year 2005 is only 1.004% of the gross domestic product (gdp) of the 25 eu member states. i would like to see it made even more ambitious, as is essential after the accession of ten new member states and to give meaning to the speeches of those who say they want to move institutional europe forward in new policies and areas of responsibility. but, given the negotiating world and the real economic and financial difficulties of the present situation, i would like to highlight some of the results achieved in the difficult conciliation process and i consider it important that the psychological threshold of 1% imposed by the 'letter of the six' has been exceeded, even if only minimally. i note some positive progress, particularly in maritime safety (especially pollution) and the maintenance of the framework for structural and external policies, in particular development aid, also taking into account the special relations with the acp countries. the rapporteur's remarks are realistic and point to some inconsistency in the announced draft contained in the european commission's proposal that this would be the 'competitiveness and cohesion' budget. i expect much better from the 2007-13 financial perspective.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of fisheries for portugal, particularly in the case of international fisheries agreements in which portuguese fishermen have a direct interest. i would also like to support my vote by saying that the question is one of extending the existing protocol and that the proposed amendments do not in any way prejudice national interests.
in writing. the period covered is the period between the expiry of the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european community and the islamic federal republic of the comoros and the date on which the commission considers that it has carried out the assessments necessary for the renegotiation of the agreement. the proposed solution, given the significant activity of the community fleet in this sea area (40 tuna seiners and 25 surface longliners), is to extend the previous agreement until a new fisheries protocol is concluded. the extension does not imply any change in the terms and restrictions of the previous protocol, and the financial compensation and fishing opportunities available to ms are maintained. given that the portuguese fleet maintains fishing opportunities for 5 surface longliners in that area, it is important for portugal to support this extension and to ensure a favourable renegotiation of the agreement. i voted yes.
in writing. i welcome the decision to allow full application of article 67 of the treaty, so that qualified majority voting and codecision can be used for title iv matters such as immigration, asylum, crossing borders, etc. we have gained efficiency, we have strengthened the role of this parliament, guaranteeing the principle of democratic legitimacy, which is fundamental for the adoption of rules on such sensitive matters as asylum and immigration policy and others involving the fundamental rights of citizens. i support mr bourlanges' report and the two specific proposals he makes to us, because: - codecision and qualified majority voting in legal immigration matters are essential for the management of the union's migration policy. the signing of the constitution on 29 october 2004 ensured that the measures provided for in the field of legal immigration should not affect the right of member states to determine the volumes of admission of third-country nationals to their territory to seek work there. - the limitations on the jurisdiction of the court in title iv, introduced in amsterdam because of fears of overloading and excessive delays, also make no sense, since article 225a was introduced in nice... (short explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1))
in writing. the rapporteur wanted to propose that the court of justice should have its jurisdiction extended by the repeal of article 68 tec - an addition to the proposal for a council decision to the effect that various areas of title iv, part iii of the tec (visas, asylum, immigration and other policies relating to the free movement of persons) should be governed by article 251 tec. as i have said on other occasions, i think it is better for the union to gradually consolidate skills and practices rather than seek to feed a continuous glut of skills. the whole proposal is a sensitive subject and the report is full of the sick maximalism of a centrifugal europe, without any popular support for this approach. i am not sure that the proposed repeal will in any way strengthen the legal protection of european citizens and of third countries, as mr bourlanges claims. i'm rather of the exact opposite belief. and i think that the european parliament would do better to simply support the proposal for a decision as it has been put forward - which in itself represents an important and ambitious step forward in the area of freedom, security and justice - and to resist embarking on this sickly fear of the 'beyond'.
in writing. the subject of the commission proposal, which the rapporteur supports, to maintain until the end of 2006 a legal basis and a financial framework for operations to defend and promote human rights and democratic principles in developing countries and other third countries, deserved my vote in favour because i consider that such maintenance, when matters of major importance in terms of the community's external policy are at stake, is of utmost utility and is fully justified.
in writing. community funding under this regulation takes the form of grants or contracts, which the european commission proposes should also be extended, in duly justified cases, to legal persons, which i also agree with. the participation of civil society should be supported, regardless of the institutionalised nature underlying it in each case. it is imperative that the union pursue, improve and intensify the path set out in the commission communication of 8 may 2001 entitled 'the role of the european union in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries'. the european union is seen by many as the last window of hope. as the afet committee (with only one abstention) has shown, the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr) must therefore use all possible instruments in its aspirations, focusing primarily on support for democratisation, good governance and the rule of law. i would like to refer to the speech i made yesterday in the plenary debate. i naturally voted in favour.
in writing. natural disasters such as floods, heat waves, forest fires, earthquakes, ecological disasters caused by toxic waste, toxic industrial accidents, serious industrial accidents and terrorist attacks are highly unpredictable and, for this reason, cause numerous victims and considerable economic damage. it is important to know and exchange experiences, to rationalise resources, to investigate and seek technical solutions to minimise the impacts caused, but above all, it is important to focus on a policy of investment in prevention and education, involving community, national, regional and local political institutions and all civil society organisations in a solidarity, responsible and differentiated partnership. the people, in their immense wisdom, say that 'prevention is better than cure', which is perfectly applicable to the case of the forest fires that ravaged portugal in the summers of 2003 and 2004 and the case of the oil spill by the prestige and erika oil tankers. we welcome the extension of the community action programme in the field of civil protection and its budgetary increase, but we also believe that this is a matter in which there should be no time limit because of its permanent nature. civil protection also involves the definition of a transversal policy: based on new models of agriculture and spatial planning that humanize urban and industrial growth... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i congratulate mr papadimoulis on the excellent report he has produced on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 1999/847/ec as regards the extension for two years of the community action programme in the field of civil protection. the aim is to ensure continuity in this area until the date of entry into force of a new legal instrument. this programme aims to strengthen the protection of citizens, the environment and property in the event of natural or technological disasters throughout the community by providing additional assistance from the other participating countries when national response capacity is insufficient. since the adoption of this programme, its effectiveness and the need for action at european level have been demonstrated, notably during the prestige disaster and the fires in the summer of 2003. the report also highlights seven areas where the programme could be improved, notably in terms of cooperation, exchange of information and increased resources. i also support the need to increase the annual budget of this programme to eur 2.4 million per year (in 2005 and 2006).
in writing. given that the community's civil protection programme currently in force expires on 31 december this year, and that it is useful that there should be a gap between this date and the start of the next legal instrument, i consider it advantageous to extend the current programme for two years, although i regret that the programme will be extended without the necessary evaluations of the 2000/2004 period having been carried out. the financial reinforcement which the commission is asking for is realistic and is particularly important in the case of portugal. for the reasons i have given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. several events, such as the prestige accident, the forest fires - particularly in my country - and the floods in southern france have highlighted the need for action at european level. the scale of certain disasters often exceeds national response capacity, and the provision of mechanisms such as the one created by the current programme at european level is increasingly justified. the proposal goes in that direction, providing for an increase from eur 1.5 million (in 2004) to eur 2.4 million per year (in 2005 and 2006). i support this development, which is part of the reinforcement of cooperation in the field of civil protection, to which the european union began responding in the first community action programme in the field of civil protection adopted in 1997, and which had as another highlight, for major disasters, the creation of the solidarity fund in november 2002. the european information and surveillance centre is very important, as it allows member states or third countries to send requests for assistance. a permanent network of contacts within the commission is thus established to ensure uninterrupted links between the civil protection centres of the participating states and to promote the sharing of information.
in writing. the commission proposal provides for a ban on the use of bottom trawls in certain areas including the most sensitive seamounts from the point of view of their habitat within the 200 miles of the aar, the ram and the canary islands. similar restrictions already exist in an area in the northwest of scotland. 1.1 i believe that further progress should be made towards a ban on the use of bottom-set gillnets. indeed, such networks also cause serious problems for ecosystems, which are aggravated in the azores eez by the volcanic and rocky nature of its seabed. there are several studies that confirm the sensitivity of deep-sea habitats, such as deep-sea coral reefs, hydrothermal vents and fisheries of seabeds and seamounts.
in writing. i fully support the european commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 850/98 of 30 march 1998 on the protection of deep-sea coral reefs against the effects of drift in certain areas of the atlantic ocean (com (2004) 58 final). i welcome the european commission for presenting this proposal, because it fulfils its promise to propose an amendment to the technical measures in force in the community to prohibit trawl fishing up to at least 200 miles around the outermost regions of the azores, madeira and the canary islands, with the aim of protecting the ecosystems of some of the most sensitive areas located in the 'seamounts' outside the 100 miles. the deep-sea habitats targeted in the commission proposal were until recently protected from trawling (the use of bottom trawls or similar towed nets operating in contact with the seabed) thanks to the special access regime resulting from the accession negotiations. however, this scheme ceased to apply in august 2004 and it was essential to ensure the continuity of protection of these areas under community legislation.
in writing. the protection of deep-sea coral reefs in the atlantic ocean is obviously of particular interest to portugal. the proposal is to prohibit the use of trawls in the waters of the azores and madeira (and also the canary islands) in order to protect deep-sea coral reefs, which are of great importance for the conservation of biodiversity. it is estimated that 65 percent of fish species in these areas depend on these reefs at some point in their lives. given this need for effective protection, the extension of the ban on bottom trawling is to be defended, since it also causes serious problems for these ecosystems due to the loss of nets (ghost fishing). in this context, and although i am not satisfied with the final result of the vote on the amendments, i consider the result achieved by this report to be very positive and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation provides for a ban on the use of bottom trawls in the most sensitive environmental zones within the first 200 nautical miles of the azores, madeira and the canary islands. i support the measures proposed in general and i also consider it essential that the specific features of each area be properly taken into account. i therefore also supported the amendment proposals to include fixed bottom trawls in the proposed prohibitions, and i deeply regret that this measure was not included in the final version of the committee, contrary to the rapporteur's recommendation. i have therefore been working with a number of colleagues to get it back up and approved by the house. in fact, it is known that these types of networks are highly damaging to ecosystems, mainly because of the high probability of network loss situations. and in the specific case of the azores, this risk is further enhanced by the volcanic nature of the seabed. so it made no sense to leave the protection halfway.
in writing. another resolution in which the parliamentary groups of the ps, psd and cds-pp, using language full of mystifications and sometimes omissions, reaffirm - together! - their options and the fundamental axes of the european union - neoliberalism, federalism and militarism. and it is not surprising that they reaffirm - all of them together! - the 'promotion of increased competitiveness' as their 'top priority' - or, more precisely, of capitalist competition - their support for the 'lisbon strategy' - following the example of the big employers in europe - 'the improvement of labour markets' - the cynical name for the attack on workers' rights - 'the reform of pension schemes' - that is, their progressive privatisation - 'the completion of the single market' - or rather, the liberalisation of energy, transport and telecommunications - among many other examples... a 'good' package wrapped in language with social concerns and good intentions, which seeks to hide the contradictions and the true essence of right-wing politics actually carried out at eu level, as well as its very serious consequences. the socialist party, the socialist party and the cds-pp may try to conceal or hide their broad understanding, but the reality is that they are being exposed. let us not forget him in portugal on 20 february.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise resolution on the commission's political guidelines, with particular reference to the pact on economic, social and territorial cohesion policies. as i have said many times, i consider cohesion policy to be a guiding principle and a fundamental cornerstone of the european union as a whole, without which it would lose its meaning. without cohesion policies, the union would be nothing more than a 'hyper-market' and an instrument of subordination to the big and dominant players in all areas. the principle of cohesion, as the founding principle of the union, is, moreover, a fundamentally christian-democratic concept. the left's adherence to this understanding is welcome. but we cannot abandon the left in the affirmation and defence of the principles that are ours. in other words, the development of competitiveness is necessary, but not to destroy cohesion, but to make it stronger.
, in writing. as we have been saying, the economic/political objectives of the present enlargement are clear, as expressed once again in the resolution we have just voted. the resolution whitewashes the implementation of neoliberal policy as a criterion and background for eu membership, although it refers to the idolized "functioning market economy", i.e. capitalism and the domination and exploitation by large financial and economic groups of an increasingly significant part of the country's economy. as the 'foreign direct investment' report says, which some say is reaching 'record levels', this means that the large foreign financial groups are increasingly dominating the bulgarian economy. the 'applause' for bulgaria's efforts is contrary to the objectives of the eu. economic and social cohesion is not built on the basis of competition and the movement of capital in pursuit of the most unrestrained exploitation. these, while leaving behind the trail of unemployment and poverty - as exemplified by the relocations of companies from portugal - do not create real wealth in the country to which they relocate. the resolution itself states that many people do not feel any improvement in their economic situation and that emigration continues.
in writing. as the commission and the report in question have pointed out, bulgaria has made the necessary progress towards accession to the european union, particularly in the economic and judicial fields, although it must be recognised that, among other equally important issues, there is a need to combat crime, corruption and trafficking in human beings more effectively. in this context, and considering that the reforms still under way can be developed in time, i am in favour of the idea that bulgaria should accede on its own merits, and for this reason i believe that the accession treaty should be concluded in 2005 so that accession can take place in january 2007. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the report, which follows on from the previous ones, assesses the progress made in a perspective which defines the neoliberal capitalist nature of the enlargement processes. the criteria to be met and the progress made are presented in more or less detail, criticisms are made and praise is given so that, in the end, these countries define and are ever closer to adopting and implementing a legal/institutional framework - the so-called 'community acquis' - which underpins the neoliberal model of the eu. the spirit of the advocates of this policy is so great that they do not hesitate to put forward proposals in a clear attempt to settle accounts with the history of the peoples' struggle, and thus for the thousandth time there is the fraudulent adulation of the 'market economy', of 'structural reforms' in the framework of 'competition' and 'market forces', of 'bringing the privatisation process to a successful conclusion' and of 'dismantling unviable enterprises' and of 'creating an environment favourable to foreign enterprises and investment'. the demands are constantly being reaffirmed, even if accompanied by the hypocritical lamentation of their grave consequences for the workers and peoples.
in writing. in february 2004, the european parliament adopted a report lamenting that, despite some progress, romania still did not fully meet the copenhagen criteria. however, as this year draws to a close, the general view is that some progress has been made towards accession, although it is also recognised that there are still many areas where this objective is not fully achieved. it therefore makes perfect sense to try to negotiate the terms of the treaty in 2005 and to leave a safeguard clause in case romania's actual accession has to be delayed until january 2008. which, by the way, seems likely. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i hope that romania will be able to conclude the negotiations with a view to signing the treaty of accession to the european union as soon as possible. i consider the rapporteur's recommendations and warnings to be very important, and i understand the importance of the romanian authorities and people being aware of the most serious contingencies of the accession process. i would remind you in particular that specific safeguard clauses may be applied in the event of serious non-compliance and that there is a risk that accession could be postponed for one year if the application of the acquis and compliance with the copenhagen political criteria are in question. i believe, however, that these warnings are only meaningful if they serve to encourage merit and performance and never to set standards that are impossible, too high. i particularly agree with the rapporteur's idea that the commission should set up a permanent mechanism of close monitoring and assistance which could help romania along this path and i think it is essential that the commission should continue to keep the european parliament fully informed of the progress of the process leading to romania's accession. the adoption of the report is particularly timely, after the way the presidential elections in romania were concluded last sunday.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, zimbabwe is unfortunately one of the regulars, one of the most frequent visitors to our debates on thursdays on the urgency of human rights. this says two things: it says the persisting seriousness of the situation and it also says the ineffectiveness of the measures we have taken. what we must condemn, of course, is the ruin of a country and a people deliberately promoted by an evil and authoritarian regime. as has been mentioned here, the poverty statistics are increasingly impressive and zimbabwe was a country that could not only feed all its people but even help solve problems of hunger and deprivation in the african continent or other parts of the world if it was properly managed. but the mugabe regime, despite international and european union warnings, continues to aggravate political oppression and we look with great concern to the elections announced for march. either you can quickly bring about some transformations and minimally serious conditions of debate in the country or these elections will not be free and fair and it is doubtful that they are worth even observing. it is the case of roy bennette, the case of the persecution of tsvangirai after he visited us here, it is also - and i would like to draw your attention to this - the very negative influence that this regime can have in the region where the future of democratic regimes or of regresses to authoritarianism is also at stake. for example, i was recently in mozambique, which held elections (the results are still being finalised) but we learned that the election campaign, that mozambican voters were voting abroad and that opposition parties were being suppressed in zimbabwe, the parties opposing frelimo. so there are conditions. the fate of zimbabwe can decisively influence the consolidation of democracy in the region, as we hope, following the example of south africa, and thus consolidating democratic aspirations in mozambique and angola, or it can, on the contrary, represent a return to forms of authoritarianism. i would like to call for increased pressure on neighbouring countries and for more dialogue with the african union, signifying the importance of the african union and also of exerting its forms of pressure on the evil mugabe regime.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the great lakes and in particular in the democratic republic of congo is a wound, a volcano in the heart of africa, which is unfortunately always ready to explode. after a conflict that has caused three million deaths over six years but which, according to the international rescue committee, still causes 31,000 deaths every month, there are signs that the situation remains unstable and unfortunately extremely erratic. the joint parliamentary assembly of the acp states recently met in the hague and, interestingly, our meeting opened with good news - the news of the dar es salaam conference and the commitment made by all the heads of state there that the conflicts had ended - but on thursday, when we closed the meeting, our co-chair, glenys kinnock, gave us the sad news: the rwandan army had crossed the borders and entered the democratic republic of congo. so we need to be more effective in this area to stabilize the region. i appreciate the image of mr posselt comparing the situation with the thirty years' war and i hope he is right because it means that this conflict will end and that these regions of the african continent will be prosperous, stable and modern as germany is today. that's what drives us. and to stabilize the african continent in open and democratic societies. what do we have to do here? we must recognize that we have not done enough against the militias of the former rwandan government, which are a pole of instability and a pretext for permanent instability in the eastern democratic republic of the congo, and we must act more energetically to disarm them. we must make it clear that any invasion is unacceptable and that respect for the borders of the countries is a principle which must be respected by all the states in the region. we must complete the democratic transition in the democratic republic of congo and consolidate the stabilisation of the country, including the need to reunify the congolese army. we must strengthen the means of the united nations mission to ensure peace and stability in the east of the drc and to create conditions on the ground that will not make us turn back, that is, that will lead everyone to honour the 2003 peace agreements, that will lead everyone to honour the commitments made in tanzania on 20 november and that will lead everyone to implement the un security council resolutions on time.
