(spanish) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour today to appear for the first time before this forum of representatives of 450 million citizens of a united europe speaking my mother tongue, slovak. for years and years, i have hoped and believed that slovakia would, as a sovereign state, one day become a full member of the european union. an essential prerequisite for the continued effective operation of the eu following its historic enlargement involves adapting its institutional framework to meet the new circumstances. the first test awaiting us, therefore, and what a test it is, is the approval of the constitutional treaty. adopting the constitutional treaty is, however, impossible unless citizens of the member states can identify with such an important document. let us not divide europe into old and new, let us not categorize states as small and large, rich and poor. if we want europe to be really unified, we must listen to every nation, every citizen. let us give an opportunity to these citizens and member states to create their own attitudes to europe in line with their own traditions, respecting the principle of sovereignty in cultural and ethical matters. i am deeply convinced that the purpose of eu reform is to create not a superstate but a supranational body, whose legitimacy is derived from the primary legitimacy of the member states. the constitutional treaty must guarantee a model of effective coexistence, the fundamental pillars for which are tolerance and mutual trust. may i remind you of the rights of the small states. for them, the question of financial mechanisms, together with an effective regional policy, is particularly vital. as regards the future shape of the european commission, i am of the opinion that each member state must have its own full commissioner with precisely defined powers. europe must be built on the principle of equality among the member states of the union. the accession of ten new states to the eu does not mean that the process of integration is finished. nor will the adoption of the constitutional treaty bring the reform of the union to an end and, therefore, it is not possible at this stage to resolve all the questions relating to the operation of the european union. it is important that this process should aim to meet our common objectives. mr president, allow me to sincerely wish our irish friends and indeed all of us a successful resolution of these matters, matters which have been discussed with such passion, and to hope that fundamental progress will be made at the summit in june, culminating perhaps in the adoption of the treaty by consensus among all the national delegations.
(spanish) mr president, it is a joy and an honour for me to appear in the european parliament as one of the representatives of the slovak republic and also to thank all of you who have been instrumental in enlarging the european union. from an economic point of view, however, the new member states became part of the european union long before 1 may 2004. in 1990, shortly after the fall of the iron curtain and the end of the cold war, the countries of the eastern bloc had a balance of trade surplus with the advanced western countries of some usd 10 billion. over the subsequent years, this indicator was turned totally upside down and, in 2002, the countries of the former eastern bloc had a balance of trade deficit with the advanced western countries of around usd 40 billion. this occurred because the advanced western countries took advantage of their superior competitive position to break into the markets opening up in the eastern countries with an annual increase in their economic potential of about usd 50 billion. this factor was one of the sources for economic growth in the advanced western countries in the 1990s. today, we are witnessing the enlargement of the european union. the existing member states are on the one hand putting on a friendly face towards the new member states, but on the other hand several member states have imposed restrictions on the free movement of workers with respect to the new member states. i also consider, given these circumstances, discussion on reducing member states' contributions to the european union budget to be not altogether appropriate. if there are doubts about the destination of these resources or the way in which they are spent and used, it is time to look for a more effective model for the operation of the entire mechanism for the distribution of eu resources and not to weaken financially the system of regional and structural solidarity, which could be one of the sources for future economic growth in the eu. and so, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to urge you quietly but insistently to make sensible decisions which will not disappoint the fragile expectations of the citizens of the new member states following accession to the eu. (applause) thank you very much.
(sk) ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time that members of parliament from the new eu member states have been able to put their views forward. it is a pity that these opinions are being delivered in such a private environment. nevertheless, it is of course an honour for me to appear before the european parliament. i come from slovakia, which, just like the other new eu member states, has undergone huge changes in the last 15 years, changes which often took decades in the advanced democracies. these changes have been very painful and have brought with them great inequalities and social injustice. we are living proof that if the social aspects of the market economy are ignored, along with the effects of experimental reforms on the population, and if the invisible hand of the market is continually overemphasized, it is one hundred percent certain that the result will be enormous differences in living standards and enormous differences between regions. i believe that we have had enough fireworks and receptions celebrating the enlargement of the european union. it must be borne in mind that the union now includes countries where average income is about eur 160 and average earnings are about eur 360 a month. full compliance with the european economic and social model may act as an emergency brake for some member states. we may, of course, have great reservations about this model, but socially fairer and more forward-looking models are very difficult, if not impossible, to devise. we wish to use our experiences from the last 15 years to make as constructive a contribution as possible to the implementation of this model. we do not wish to be the part of europe which is only attractive because of its low labour costs and weak social protection. the introduction of restrictions on the free movement of workers has not been the best of contributions to the european economic and social model. it is essential to express the conviction that further such 'contributions' will not occur and that equality and solidarity will not be restricted to glossy brochures about the european union, but will be real european values. (applause) thank you very much.
(sk) mr president, mr president of the commission, and the new commissioners, i offer you my congratulations and i believe that your candidacy will be confirmed by our vote today. but it is not simply a matter of approval, for huge commitments and great challenges await you in your new posts. much has been said here about money, about the far east and the near east, but i would like to direct my question towards a resolution of the roma problem. the european commission and the european parliament have often reproached our country, the slovak republic, for not doing enough to solve the roma problem. i would like to ask you, perhaps mr prodi, whether you would not perhaps consider supporting the establishment of an institute for solving this problem, since this question has now become a matter for europe and the resolution of the roma problem is not just a question of financial resources. it is a question of an overall philosophy and a general approach and i believe far more will have to be done in this regard in the future.
mr. president, allow me to wish you all the best in your new role. the dutch presidency is presenting us with a programme which is also a challenge, namely the signing of the treaty establishing a constitution for the european union. as a member of the european convention, i can guarantee that this treaty contains the fundamental principles for a future strong and prosperous europe. i cannot, when we look to the future, fail to recall the steps taken by the slovak republic in the past. this month we are commemorating the 12th anniversary of the signing of the declaration of the sovereignty of the slovak republic by the slovak parliament. it was the first step towards the creation of an independent slovak state. the second step was the adoption of the constitution of the slovak republic on 1 september 1992. this period was completed in november with the peaceful division of the czechoslovak federation into two separate states - the czech republic and the slovak republic. i assure you that despite the division of the state, relations between czechs and slovaks have reached a much better level. the founding of the slovak republic was a step towards the eu, it was my political party, the movement for democratic slovakia, whose president, mr mečiar, handed over the application and request for the slovak republic's accession to the european union. i therefore regard our current membership of the eu as the fulfilment of our goals, ideas and programme. we are interested not only in the abolition of frontiers which restrict the free movement of persons, but also in the collapse of the virtual division into old and new europe, or, as i heard yesterday, into western and eastern europe. three members of the hzds, mr kozlík, baco and i, are working in the group of independent members. but i want to assure you that our aim is to work for a future prosperous and united europe. we support the actions of the dutch presidency and the programme it has presented to us. thank you. thank you. (applause) thank you very much.
mr. chairman, on behalf of the non-attached slovak mps for the people's party hzds, i assure mr barros that as realists we support his development intentions, especially in science, research and education. however, the rationalization of the common agricultural policy, as the most budgetary-intensive area, is also a limitation to the progress of the european union. unfortunately, the current cap and its reforms have only a name in common, as, for example, in direct payments, the cap supports up to several times more of the original eu member states than new members. as a result, up to a third of the food market in the new member states is occupied by food from the eu-15, although until recently the new eu members were also net food exporters. but this common agricultural policy, which encourages under-performance and production cuts, is seriously undermining the prospects of all of us to compete with third countries. the new us agricultural policy in particular is developmental, expansionary to aggressive. and already today, the united states produces food at half the cost. after the next round of the wto, our position will deteriorate significantly. we are therefore prepared, mr barroso, to support a common agricultural policy where, instead of administrative battles within the eu, we focus our efforts on increasing the competitiveness of food, our common food of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, let me highlight three aspects: respect for national cultural heritage, gender equality and the fight against poverty. i am very pleased that you have recalled the importance of the member states' many and rich national, regional, cultural, linguistic and political traditions. the democratic construction of a new europe requires the confidence of all its citizens and respect for the principle of subsidiarity. we all know that the citizens of the member states are currently apprehensive about the european project as a project of centralisation carried out by community institutions. i call on you, mr. president-designate, to work towards the decentralization of these institutions. the declaration of the slovak parliament, adopted in january 2002, stresses in this context the sovereignty of the member states of the european union in cultural and ethical matters. what has not yet become a reality in the european construction is gender equality. i am proud to see that women are responsible for important professions and are reinvigorating the intergenerational solidarity network. when women fully contribute and pass on their skills, they can positively influence the organisation and understanding of the community of all its inhabitants. women put the basic values of the human person - truth, justice, love, and freedom - first. they must be encouraged to share and bring these irreplaceable values into family and professional life. i also recall the role of women in caring for children, for the handicapped, for the elderly, for women refugees, who, despite their own suffering and hardship in desperate situations, are working for the good of all those who suffer even more. the protection of women against all new forms of poverty is a necessary condition for the effective realisation of gender equality. mr barroso, even if you did not mention this in your speech, you are certainly aware of the importance of combating poverty, which is a serious problem for the member states. poverty is the rape of human rights and the breaking up of families. i invite you to take an active part in the celebrations of the world day against poverty on 17 october. the slogan of this international day has often been quoted in the european parliament: 'where people are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are violated'. to unite in order to be respected is our sacred duty. mr president, you have proposed a positive alliance between the commission and parliament, come and meet the members of the comité quart monde européen, the oldest intergroup in the european parliament, which has been the voice of hope for the poorest families in europe since 1979. mr barroso, on behalf of the members of the slovak republic, i wish you every success in your work as president of the european commission. thank you. thank you.
thank you very much, mr president, and allow me to join in congratulating you on your re-election today, on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the group of independent meps. just as the spectrum of colours adds beauty to a picture, i believe that the spectrum of political parties in the european parliament also ensures that the decisions of this body will not serve only a certain part of europe. i would like to return today to the speech by commission president barroso on this subject, who made it clear that the union must have a strong and independent commission. i also believe that europe needs a strong and accountable parliament. we must meet the will and expectations of our constituents. in order to represent their interests here, we must have the right conditions for our work. mr president, let me remind you, from the very beginning of our mandate, of our demands to eliminate the discrimination we feel as a group of independent members. firstly, the secretariats of other political groups are better staffed, for example the europe of the nations, which has 27 members, has 34 officials. we have 29 members and only 11 employees to ensure our work in the secretariat. our meetings are not interpreted into our native languages, even though many nations are represented. the financial support allocated to political groups is checked only after it has been used, whereas we have to ask for the funds and prove in advance for what purpose we are asking for them. mr. chairman, all of us here were democratically elected by the will of our constituents to represent them. the european union ensures its prosperity by agreements, by compromises, and we must do everything we can to eliminate discrimination in this house. so i'm asking you to address these issues, not push them away. i feel that economic pressure on a group of independents should be a reason to get involved politically. you mentioned in your speech that you had problems with interpretation. i come now to another form of discrimination which the european parliament is committing. interpreters from the previous period from candidate countries, during our observer status, did not have an equivalent status. they were mainly discriminated against in the social field, in terms of their rights and benefits. since the accession of 10 member states, i.e. from 1 may this year, their status has been partially adjusted, but they are still heavily discriminated against against by their counterparts from the old member states. interpreters have never been recruited for the a8 post, given the demands of their profession. the difference between the old and new interpreters is more than 1000 euros. mr president, i apologize for speaking at the outset about economic and financial problems. in slovakia, however, the saying is "a clean table makes friends". the ep needs to solve all financial issues for all the members present, so that there is no statute, so that there is no virtual border between the old and the new. i ask you to do justice to the man who is in your hands. on the other hand, i can offer you a job that's honest. the mps from the independent group will point out the injustice, but we will always show an effort to find a compromise and solve the important problems that you raise. you're going through a difficult time. therefore, i wish you health, to be able to handle your difficult task, and i wish you balance, to handle this task well. not every politician gets the opportunity you got. prove that you are worthy of this historically very important office and that you are the president of us all. thank you for your attention. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, even at its 15-member level, has already started to benefit from its relationship with the new member states. if in 1990 the advanced countries of the european union had a us$10 billion deficit in foreign trade with the eastern european countries, today the surplus is about us$40 billion. the european 15 have thus not only largely taken over the markets but also the proprietary businesses of the less developed countries, which generate considerable income for them. the new member states of the european union are therefore rightly expecting to be treated with courtesy, not to be subject to barriers to labour mobility, to administrative barriers to the use of post-accession aid and, certainly, to budget cuts for structural operations and the compensation of regional disparities. (applause) thank you very much.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i'm gonna try to really use this time. i want to thank the minister for coming to the foreign affairs committee and informing us of the steps he's going to take to help with this situation. after all that i have had the opportunity to hear here, i shall be anxiously awaiting the decision of the security council next week, as well as the decision of the un plenary session to be taken in the light of this situation, so that the european union can then decide its next steps in a sovereign manner. i think that the horrors we've heard about here cannot be solved just by raising funds to help these people to provide their basic necessities of life, but that we really need to try to solve these things by putting economic pressure on the government. so a common action of all the organizations that can help here is agreements with the african union or the united nations, as well as the united states. i'll keep my fingers crossed that solutions are adopted as soon as possible for the benefit of these unfortunate people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the political issue we are dealing with today was the subject of a wide-ranging debate in the committee on women's rights and gender equality of our parliament. i would like to confirm that every member of our committee, without exception, has had a chance to express his opinion. the committee took the time to discuss this matter, even in a situation where we did not have sufficient information and thorough analysis, in particular as regards possible violations of human rights, community law or the right to free movement of citizens or information. despite a very open and lively discussion, the committee on women's rights, in view of the conflicting views, did not find a consensus in favour of a common position. i would like to return to a more substantial aspect. this goes far beyond political polemics, and even legal advisers have no clear solution. the following are simply the thoughts of a woman who is in solidarity with other women. i would like to remind you that a woman who feels compelled to have an abortion never does so with pleasure. often, these are situations in which a woman does not believe that she can handle the pregnancy and the birth of a child, and in this confused situation, she feels that she has no other choice. this personal trauma may be linked to extraordinary situations where a woman has been forced to leave her job, has been abandoned, has been raped, or has suffered other physical or psychological trauma, violence within the family, economic and social environment. the present situation is a manifestation of the failure of developed human society to contribute to the needs of all human beings, including the poorest, the smallest and the weakest. we must work towards a pact of internal stability that leads to greater trust of the individual in society, so as to promote solidarity between generations and to engage with each other in this direction.
the incidents against the indigenous hungarians in serbia-montenegro, more precisely in vojvodina, are events that if they get out of hand can turn the region into uncontrollable firebrands. ensuring and respecting human and minority rights is the measure of democracy. serbia and montenegro's long-term objective is to join the european union, but to do so it must create a lasting, solid democratic value system, which is an important element of our fundamental principles, the copenhagen criteria. any country that does not accept this has no place in the european union. as a representative of the hungarian community in slovakia, i can prove by experience how hungry a minority community reacts to any measure or event that threatens not only its identity but also its existence. serbia's political leaders are playing down the tense situation. such a process could easily set off a chain reaction. i support the motion for a resolution. we must be strict in our warnings, our recommendations. we must firmly call on the public authorities and state bodies of serbia to stop the attacks against hungarians and other national minorities. serbia and montenegro can only have a chance of becoming a member of the european union if it creates a balanced situation on its territory that contributes to the legal security of the minorities living there. finally, i cannot agree with mr kohlicek's view that the parallel he draws is wrong and misleading. (potlesk) what are you doing?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to support the draft amending budget of the european union for 2004 for the european data protection supervisor. at the same time, however, in the context of the development of the budgetary management of the european union over the seven months of 2004, i would like to express my concern about the gap between the implementation of commitments, which is 74%, and the implementation of payments, which is 54% and lagging far behind. the budget of the slovak republic for the first nine months of 2004 represents a payment to the european union budget of 70% of the budget, but the drawdown of the european union budget is only 15% of the annual plan. in this situation, not only slovakia but also other newly acceding countries would become net payers to the budget of the european union instead of receiving accession aid. the situation needs to be urgently examined, both at the level of the european commission and at the level of the european council and national governments. thank you very much.
mr president, if we condemn the use of doping in sport, i agree with all those who have spoken before me that this is about amateur athletes as well as professional athletes. this is the use of substances that are often not only drugs but also medicines used to treat many diseases. on the other hand, what kind of society is it that tolerates and even proposes many measures to enable the sale of soft drugs in some states? so who are we allowing and who are we forbidding to use drugs? so we're allowing non-athletes? can teachers or doctors use drugs or substances that are doping? can children use them?
mr president, as someone who has had plenty of experience of amateur and professional sport and who has participated in several world championships and olympic games, i understand clearly the danger of illegal drugs in sport. besides being an athlete myself, i have children who have reached or are approaching the level of elite athletes. i have never used performance-enhancing drugs and i do not want my children to become the victims of cheats. people who use illegal drugs in sport are nothing but cheats. they are destroying the true meaning of athletic competition and do nothing but set a bad example, in particular to our young people. science has shown illegal drugs to damage the physical and mental capacity of human beings. we know illegal drugs kill, yet the temptation is always there and it is growing. the reason is the unprecedented boom in the popularity of sport over the last few decades and, obviously, the rich rewards that accompany it. sport is an excellent tool for shaping the character of young people and is very good for our general health. it is in everyone’s interest to maintain the positive influence of sport. i call on parliament, the commission and the european union institutions to work with national and international sports federations, national governments, the ioc and professional associations to combat the dangers of illegal drugs. together we can keep the cheats out and keep sport clean. (applause)
mr president, as you know this vote will decide on the request for two urgent procedures concerning macro-financial assistance, one to the federal republic of yugoslavia, and the other to bosnia and herzegovina. the two referrals are proposals for decisions aiming merely to extend the current expiration date of the financial packages, which are due to expire on 9 november 2004. yesterday the committee on international trade - the committee responsible for both referrals - held an extraordinary meeting to decide on the request for urgent procedure. i would like to inform you, on behalf of the committee on international trade, that it decided by a wide majority to accept the request for urgent procedure in both cases. it also adopted the report on these two referrals through simplified procedures. we believe that the federal republic of yugoslavia and bosnia should not pay for problems in the handling of internal eu procedures. however, before proceeding to the vote, i would call on the commission not to abuse the urgency procedure, but use it only as a last resort and to always inform parliament as soon as possible through the appropriate channels. i regret to note that parliament was not properly informed about the possibility of an urgent procedure in this case. the handling of the case dossier, and the communication with parliament, took place late and did not follow the appropriate channels. i hope this will not be repeated. that being said, and on behalf of the committee on international trade, i wish to advise my colleagues to accept the requests for urgent procedure so that parliament can adopt the committee's opinion on thursday and so that the council decision can be amended to allow the foreseen allocation of financial aid to bosnia and yugoslavia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the division of the cake, but not so much about how the cake is made. it should be recalled that around 90% of budgetary resources derive from the gross national income base and from resources derived from value added tax revenues, and these are closely linked to the rate of economic growth. yesterday, the president of the european central bank, jean-claude trichet, said that 2003 was accompanied by only stagnant growth of 0.5% of gross domestic product. he also said that the world economy was currently experiencing the strongest growth in 30 years and that the european union should benefit from this positive global environment. however, the draft budget proposed does not correspond at all to these realities. in 2004 the payment of commitments is forecast to increase by 7,9% compared with 2003. these are updated figures reflecting developments in july and august 2004. in contrast, despite the reported favourable growth environment, the draft budget of the european union forecasts an increase of only 5.4% compared with 2004, which means that the annual increase in disbursements is to be 30% lower than in 2004. the eu budget for 2005 is intended to reflect the full membership of the 10 new member states for the year, unlike the 2004 budget. in this respect, the baseline parameters as set by the council and accepted in principle by the commission are rather comfortable and restrictive in terms of development and will cause considerable problems in the implementation of the eu's basic structural, regional and cohesion policies. thank you. thank you.
, author mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your on sunday, october 17, the international community commemorated the international day for the eradication of poverty to draw attention to poverty as a violation of human rights. we're trying to eradicate poverty, but to do that, society has to redouble its efforts. it must be based on the experience of those who actually live in poverty and of families who reject poverty and do everything possible to give their children a better future. these are people who constantly feed their testimony with the idea that wherever women, children and men are condemned to live in poverty, their human rights are violated. it is our great duty to come together and ensure that these rights are respected throughout the european union. on october 17, 1987, 100,000 human rights defenders gathered in the rue du trokadéro in paris in response to a call by father joseph brezinsky to honor the victims of hunger, violence and ignorance. they expressed their opposition to poverty and called on humanity to unite in order to ensure respect for human rights. the european parliament subsequently adopted this position in its annual reports on fundamental human rights in the european union. in this spirit, the united nations launched its first decade for the eradication of world poverty in 1996. the european union has also been active in this area through the lisbon agenda. let me remind you of two important points in this issue. the first is the bias of the attitudes involved. it is important that the poorest members of society are directly involved in the planning, implementation and evaluation of programmes and strategies. for example, the world bank has adopted exactly this kind of participatory approach to poverty reduction. the european institutions need to have much more determination and conviction, as well as the right tools, to act effectively. despite the best intentions, european community policies have failed to adequately address the feminization of poverty. programmes to combat social exclusion often lack specific measures targeting women. i am thinking in particular of single mothers, widows, disabled women and elderly women who have become dependent on others, as well as women who are discriminated against because of their ethnic or other minority status. in short, the european project has failed to create equal opportunities. but it fills me with pride to see women taking on the important responsibility of intergenerational solidarity within the family. i am convinced that every woman can have a positive impact on the way in which a community of citizens is organised and structured. since all women promote human values such as truth and justice, love and freedom, they should be supported in sharing and promoting these values in their families and in their professional lives. i would like to pay special tribute to those who live far from home or in difficult circumstances who overcome their suffering and fatigue to help their loved ones. in this context, i openly condemn the traffickers who exploit these vulnerable women and children. the second important aspect is the internal stability pact. it is widely recognised that poverty is the real test of democratic systems. but the heads of state and government of the european union have refused to recognise the eradication of poverty as one of the objectives of the european union in the draft constitutional treaty. many have heard of the stability and growth pact. on october 17th, i would like to introduce a different kind of stability pact, a pact of internal stability that gives women and poor families more self-confidence and dignity, a pact to open the doors of society to women and the poor. it is necessary to support this pact for internal stability in an enlarged europe and to eradicate poverty by promoting solidarity between generations, non-discrimination, equal opportunities and constructive dialogue, in order to build together a genuine partnership with the weakest members of society.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add two comments to the question put by mrs zaborska: first of all: many studies show that in the new member states, women have borne a substantial part of the burden of the transition, both psychologically and economically and socially. it's also closely related to the feminization of poverty. both unemployed and employed women are at risk of poverty. as regards women in employment, particularly in lower paid professions, this is mainly due to the fact that women's wages are on average about 25% lower than men's wages over the long term and this is no exception, it is almost the european average. as regards unemployed women, the most difficult and difficult situation to manage is that of older women, who are still treated very unfavourably in some countries for the time they spend raising children, and especially single women with children. it also shows that the chance of escaping poverty in the case of job shortages and long-term unemployment decreases with the length of unemployment. in my country, slovakia, 21% of the population lives at risk of poverty or below the poverty line, according to the latest data from the statistical office, using the eurostat methodology. second note: one of the most important dimensions of sustainable development is the social dimension, in particular poverty. the feminization of poverty is not just a problem of new countries. it is clear that women's poverty is more likely to result in the social exclusion of children, thus affecting the life chances of the new generation. i therefore join the issues as urgent, including the need to strengthen gender-specific statistics also in terms of building a knowledge-based society. i also join because some countries, especially some governments, try to downplay the problem of poverty as a personal failure. i expect the european commission to strengthen its policy in this respect as well. (applause) thank you very much.
mr. chairman, i appreciate the first coordination of the big 25 of the dutch presidency. you did it without any major problems. but let me also point out the negative. despite the fact that all important equality documents have equality between men and women in their preambles, i consider it a disgrace for the 21st century and all strategies that the council was chaired by you, with 25 men and two invited guests, mr chirac and mr schröder, meeting (especially in november). we've all been critical of mr. buttiglione for his comments. but that is the reality in this important institution of the european union. you have failed to adopt the statute for members of the european parliament, so that the virtual division of europe and discrimination within this body continues. we work under different conditions here. however, we talk about equality of rights and obligations in the lisbon strategy as a very serious chapter. it's good that you're thinking about immigration in europe from a security perspective. but it would be good, and i would welcome it, if you would consider the perspective of emigration in the future. europe is leaving its most valuable people, and in effect encouraging competition in other countries. thank you. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite being one of the independent members of the european parliament, i am a euro-realist and i want to support the election, but especially the start of the new commission's activities, on behalf of the slovak people's party and other euro-realist colleagues, and at the same time to direct its attention mainly to economic growth issues. the european union has emerged primarily as an economic grouping which, on the basis of its growing economic power, can also have a positive influence on foreign policy processes. i therefore regard it as a warning sign if the euro area's economic growth lags far behind that of its main global competitors, such as the us, china, russia and others. the lisbon strategy is not even halfway done and the european union's crucial development instruments are failing. the huge funds invested in the agricultural sector are largely used to rehabilitate inefficient production or to stimulate the suppression of production. the resources for structural operations, which should boost the european union's economy, are largely under-spent, while commitments remain. we are thus silently witnessing the european union's total level of legally-based budgetary commitments reaching eur 200 billion, corresponding to a five-year payment volume. the use of pre-accession and post-accession aid for the new member states is also lagging far behind. this is where the european commission's experts, together with parliament and the council, must look for the roots of the euro area's low economic growth, high unemployment and mounting government debt. so the new european commission, we ask you, get to work!
mr president, honourable members, it is said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. many key documents of the european union are full of good intentions. this is true of the lisbon strategy, but it is doubly true of the proposals for the guidelines which define the new financial framework of the enlarged european union for 2007-13. perhaps this is why we are now seeing the euro area's economic growth lag behind that of its main global competitors. in the 1990s, when the eu-15 countries benefited mainly from the gradual takeover of eastern european markets, average annual labour productivity growth was 2.3% per year. at present, it is only 1.2% per year, with euro area productivity growth more than one third lower than in the us. in this respect, i welcome the speech by mr borrell, president of the european parliament, at the european council, where he specifically pointed out the considerable gap between the lisbon strategy's ambitions and reality. however, any financial perspective is also at risk if it is not underpinned by real implementation. the debate on the new financial perspective cannot therefore be about the financial frameworks alone, but above all about the efficiency of the use of common resources, not only about the european union's commitment, but above all about concrete implementation steps to increase the eu's competitiveness. thank you. thank you.
commissioner, today is the day of aids and your statement on this subject is, i believe, very good, but it is only a statement. i hope that your future work will include practical steps to help improve this situation. today's aids day is a call to us as politicians to be aware of the choices we make. aids is a disease that spreads across borders, and that's why the decision to make health care a matter for individual states is not a good one. it cannot be seen, it cannot be perceived, it cannot be felt. it's a disease that crosses borders without customs clearance. the disease started in the high-risk group -- homosexuals, then later hemophiliacs, donors, drug addicts. today, we also find that a large number of women are involved. what they didn't say was that of those 40 million, 5 to 5.5 million are children and adolescents. these are alarming numbers. we were talking about transmission today. i'm talking about the love. perhaps that is why women are so often the victims. but i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to those who were not discussed today. they are health workers who are willing to risk their lives very willingly and very happily. they are volunteers. but did we realise that these health workers are often the first victims of the health reforms that are being done in the european union? it's a bad thank you for their work.
(no) thank you very much, mr. chairman. mr president of the commission, you have a very important role to play, and in the end this debate shows how difficult it is to build something, how easy it is to criticize something. i assure you that the debate that will follow the presentation of your programme will certainly be more dramatic than today, when we are to offer you both our goals and our dreams. i would ask you to include the future in your programmes, that is, to take care of the next generation, of young people, of education. but i would ask you to make the past a priority in your programmes, that is, to take care of the generation that is getting older, to take care of the elderly. the first test, a very clear target, will be the constitutional treaty mentioned by my colleague mrs bobošikova. i am convinced that you can convince european society that this is a modern document which simplifies all the rules of the game which have survived historically. this is your first time as chairman of the g25 commission. i ask you to make use of the potential that the ten new member states have tried to offer you in their commissioners. so that you too can break down the border that exists, the virtual border between old and new europe. you're in for an amazing time, fulfilling your goals, fulfilling the trust we gave you when we voted for you, but of course that also obligates us to help you do that. i cannot make promises on behalf of all members, but i can tell you that those of us who are here for slovakia, those who are here for my political party, are always ready for a constructive discussion, and therefore for cooperation on your programme. i'm going to be very strict and very careful in the health sector. the free movement of persons is only a word that is not fulfilled if we cannot also cover health insurance in this free movement of persons. i'm very happy for you, mr. chairman, and i trust that you can build a program in january that meets our goals. thank you. thank you.
thank you. thank you. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on my colleague mr roszkowski's report by introducing a brief numerical genesis. for 2005, the commission came up with a preliminary payment proposal of €109 billion, the council came up with a payment proposal of €105 billion at first reading and parliament raised the level to €111 billion. he seemed qualified. in the second round, the council again proposes payments of €105.3 billion and the parliament proposes payments of €106.3 billion, 5 billion less than in the first round. it is quite clear who is playing the first fiddle in budgetary ping-pong, but it is also clear that budgetary procedures are not yet precisely profiled. if parliament passes the proposed level of payments, this will mean an increase of 6.5% compared with 2004. this represents modest progress compared with the projected rate of euro area inflation, but the reasons for optimism are already considerably less than when compared with the need to finance the political objectives and priorities of the european union. if the quality criterion for the budgetary process of the european union is to be the convergence of the level of commitments and payments, then there is rather reason for pessimism. the european parliament has just approved the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2003. in the parliamentary debate on this report, one of the key conclusions was that the rate of payment drawdown, or payment execution, is relatively low and ranges between 80 and 90 per cent in the longer term. the proposed draft budget of the european union for 2005 does not provide any revenue in this respect, and provides for a payment rate of 90%. the decisive levers for implementing the appropriations in the form of payments, especially as regards the structural funds, are in the hands of the governments of the member states of the european union. it is therefore an important task for parliament to use political instruments and also to obtain media support to put the appropriate pressure on governments and the council, with a view to making a fuller and more efficient use of the funds available to finance the common policies of the european union. otherwise, the parliamentary budgetary procedure will be, and will remain, a test of the loyalty of meps to their home country's government rather than a test of the efficiency and competitiveness of budgeting and the use of european union resources. thank you. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union countries have a favourable investment climate today. there are low interest rates, there are no inflationary pressures, there is plenty of savings. however, if we compare the european union economy with the united states economy, we must say that it is the investment in the united states that achieves higher added value and faster returns with the same investments. the european union must therefore focus more on structural reforms at all levels, in all institutions. it is not at all the same whether we measure the effectiveness of the funds spent in individual categories and sectors by their volume alone. in the feedback, in addition to measuring quantitative indicators, we must involve and prioritise quality measurement and value-added measurement. the same is true of the science and research mr wurtz spoke of today. member states need to be involved in the process. each of them should develop its own national lisbon strategy, its own financial perspective and make payments and deductions from it. we all know that the main battleground for the lisbon objectives is the pursuit of reforms at the national level. i mention all this because when we talk about annual budgets, the financial perspective and the lisbon strategy, we always talk about interconnected vessels. we finally reached a compromise when we negotiated the 2005 budget. i trust we can agree on a budget together. i thank all my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their constructive approach. we all know that the 2005 budget is a transitional budget. we have to prepare a new financial perspective. with them we have a better chance of launching the lisbon strategy, which should be given a different quality.
