(sl) mr president, i would like to thank you for your i am very pleased to be here with you speaking slovenian and, with the voting card of a member of the european parliament, to be enjoying a time when history is smiling on us. it smiled when the berlin wall fell, when human dignity was restored to the people of the new democracies, and when we were building an independent and democratic slovenian state. remembering the victims of totalitarianism in europe, i am grateful to all those who have contributed to the european democratic movement. i am particularly grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for all your support and solidarity. the success and stability of the european union will depend on what we do and how we work together. i would like us to work together in the spirit of the founders of europe. this session is not our first experience together. we already have behind us experiences that will enable us to work together in the future, namely our work in the european convention, which has led to a good draft of the constitutional treaty and has deepened our sense of mutual trust. the enlargement of the european union must also mean a deeper union. an enlarged europe means a larger political europe, a more transparent and effective institutional order, a greater role for the european parliament, greater decision-making with a qualified majority, a single foreign minister and greater influence on the part of all its citizens, both men and women. an enlarged europe also means increased cooperation, open under the same conditions to all members, and not just open to a club operating at different speeds without a constitutional foundation. the european project is not only a matter for professional europeans. we will succeed if the citizens of the european union experience it as their own. the key terms of the convention have been the values, democracy and equality of the member states, and not any quantitative talk about large and small. we new members do not want to be just additions, we want to be an additional value, the equal co-creators of a united europe. let us bring together the experiences of the older member states and the democratic dynamic of the new ones. the plan of a truly united europe will succeed if the european countries, or euroland, become the foundation of a country of values, or valueland and if, at the same time, the union becomes a community. the term 'more europe' must mean above all an enhanced europe in europe itself. the european project must also be completed in a south-eastern direction. the sources of conflict there must be replaced with a vision for the future, with reconciliation, the respect of all identities, cooperation and a well thought out economic plan.
(sl) mr president, like my fellow member mr peterle before me, i would like to express my pleasure that i am able to speak as a representative of the republic of slovenia, as a new member state, in my slovenian mother tongue. on the basis of my experiences of taking part in the convention and my experiences during my one year stint as an observer in the european parliament, i am absolutely convinced that it is crucially important that the european constitution be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. the fundamental legitimacy of this exceptional document, which is unparalleled anywhere in the world, lies in the fact that it was accepted by a consensus in the convention after lengthy preparations and discussions with the broadest possible participation of national and european parliaments, governments, the european commission, the civil service, the social partners and others. furthermore, i am firmly convinced that the early adoption and implementation of the european constitution is a prerequisite for the effective, democratic and transparent functioning of the enlarged european union. it is a prerequisite for the achievement of values and goals and also for the rapid and socially just development of a united europe. the constitution is vital if everyone's high expectations are to be fulfilled. this is particularly true in the new member states. it is also important if the european union is to play a greater role and if its social market model is to develop sustainably in the global world. finally, with its guarantee of balance in the functioning of the institutions of the european union and in particular the enhanced role of the european parliament and national parliaments, the european constitution is an important condition for actually bringing the european union and its citizens closer together. i therefore call on the governments to demonstrate both courage and responsibility by adopting the final treaty as soon as possible at the intergovernmental conference, and, if possible, during the irish presidency, which has shown exceptional sensitivity and commitment.
(sl) mr president, there are many important rooms in our collective european home. there are political, economic, cultural, spiritual rooms and also social rooms. i am convinced that both the european social and economic model are extremely important, if not crucial, for the cohesion of the european union. the essence of this model could be boiled down to the simple statement that you have brought together both competition and solidarity. according to data from research carried out by the pew global survey, the views held by both eastern and western europeans, with regard to the market and the social system that should be guaranteed by the state, have a large number of points in common. this is why today the citizens of ten new countries, including my country, slovenia, tend to ask two main questions. are the days of the previous european social and economic model numbered, and will the european social market model survive in the eu of 25 states? my reply is that it will. it must survive. of course it will have to respond to numerous changes, for example negative demographic trends, rising healthcare and pension costs and also a more balanced representation of both sexes in the labour market. i would like to mention the contents of a report prepared for the european commission by a group of experts led by jacques sapir, which clearly calls for european cohesion funds to be redirected to the accession states. in this way they will be available to the people that need them most. i am convinced that the eu must offer the acceding states the same conditions that were offered to the new members in each previous round of enlargement. up until now, to be frank, the founding members of the european union have had priority in the distribution of funds.
(sl) mr president, as a member of the convention on the future of europe, i participated in the development of the constitutional treaty. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express the hope that the new constitutional treaty will be adopted this year and that the procedures for endorsing the constitutional treaty in the member states will take place within a reasonable time span. as a member of the convention i particularly wanted the charter of human rights and freedoms to become an integral part of the constitutional treaty. this is important not only for the sake of the charter itself and its meaning in the european union but because it has a special symbolic meaning for those of us who come from the former socialist states. it is also important for the eurosceptics, who can see that the range of human rights and freedoms is generally more extensive than it is in our constitutions. i do think, however, that the slovenian constitution is particularly good. at the same time this is a clear sign that we have joined a community of democratic states which respect and safeguard human rights and freedoms. i see europe as a flourishing community, in which peace, prosperity and the security of people and property are not merely political slogans but a reality. we must do everything to ensure that terrorism and crime do not grow but are fundamentally reduced. we do not need large, new bureaucratic organisations at the level of the european union, but we do need increased cooperation between police forces and the member states. as far as possible we need to establish a uniform policy in the fight against terrorism and crime and to increase the effectiveness of our security services through joint action. it is also important that we cooperate in controlling the external borders of the european union effectively and that balanced assistance is given to those states which bear the greatest burden in this respect. slovenia is a peaceful and safe country where people can walk the streets of our cities safely even during the hours of darkness. it is well known that in many places in europe it is not safe to do so. i therefore express the expectation that, in addition to taking care of economic, scientific and general social development, the european union will pay particular attention to the security of its citizens and the protection of their property.
president of the commission. i totally agree.
(sl) mr president, i would like to thank you for your i would like to thank mr prodi for presenting the new members of the commission and also for the considerable efforts he has made to secure the accession of the ten new states. in its negotiations with the european union, slovenia attempted to use its very best people. and this we succeeded. the team conducting these proceedings within the government of the republic of slovenia performed its task with distinction, naturally with the consensus of all the parliamentary parties. the proposed candidate for the new slovenian commissioner is undisputedly one of these people and i am therefore delighted that he has been nominated. dr potočnik's team, and before him mr bavčar's team, based their success on the fact that all their negotiating positions had been endorsed in the slovenian parliament, which was something unique and an example of great cooperation on both sides. mr. prodi, the ten, or rather twelve, new players will strengthen the fine team that you lead. if this team also cooperates closely with the european parliament, it will be even more successful and that is something we must not forget.
mr president, mr barroso, i have an invitation for you, and as the last speaker, i hope you will remember it. on 1 may this year, 10 new countries joined the european union. in the referendums, our people voted for europe mainly because they want security and a better life in the common european home. they expect that our combined efforts will overcome the historical backlog of development. these differences, economic and social, are obvious. just look at the problem of unemployment and social exclusion. the development differences, mr barroso, will of course not be resolved overnight. but they can be removed by your firm commitment to an active policy of solidarity and social cohesion. i expect that your commission, if you get support for it today, will make this a priority. new and better jobs are the central issue for all of europe, and especially for the new member states. you can rest assured that i will support any measure you take to that end. but if you are indifferent to this problem, which affects a significant part of the european union, you cannot count on my support. but if you're elected, i wish you the best.
mr president, under the leadership of jacques delors, europe saw the fall of communism, the restoration of democracy in the east, the emergence of new states and the opening of the political process towards european unification. the presidency of jacques santer saw the process of rapprochement between the candidate countries develop towards the largest enlargement of the european union in its history. under your presidency, mr president, after difficult negotiations and adjustments, ten new member states have joined the european union in full, on the basis of a truly united europe, which will be built not only by professional europeans but also by its citizens. having had the opportunity to work with the slovenian side on this process on various occasions and in different capacities, i know the will, coordination and mutual attention this project required. mr president, i am pleased that the commission has followed the vision and priorities you announced at the beginning of your presidency, and i am pleased that your commitment has made a strong mark on this unique stage in the development of the european union and thus on european history. as the head of the slovenian delegation to the epp-ed, i would like to express my sincere appreciation and gratitude for your contribution and in particular for your attention to slovenia. thank you also for your presence at the celebration of the enlargement of the european union on the slovenian-italian border, on the south-western edge of the former iron curtain, on 1 may 2004, which was a special way of highlighting that the time of totalitarianism and a divided europe is over. as a former member of the presidency of the european convention, allow me to express my appreciation for the excellent contribution of the european commission to the treaty establishing a constitution for europe.
mr president, i have the honour and responsibility of taking part with you for the first time in the european commission of the enlarged european union. i want the european parliament to do this with dignity and credibility. i was happy to vote for the future president of the commission, not because he is from beautiful portugal, but because he has presented a vision worth supporting. today, it has reinforced this vision with some programming elements, with a clear will to work closely with the european parliament and also with a will to lead the commission in the spirit of the european constitutional treaty. i'm not interested in discussing the outcome of the american election or the fate of berlusconi, and we don't have to go back to adam and eve. we must be interested in the future of the european union and the power of its commission. our task is not to decide on the personal views of the candidates, but on the competence of the proposed commission. there are too many challenges ahead of us to play small games. a lot of what i've read about interrogations, i'm not happy with either the left or the right. but even if i were to agree with the criticism, i cannot, because of one majority vote in one of the committees, put the whole commission at risk for one of the candidates. if we adopt the practice of judging by ideological criteria, by one or two sentences or even by quotations taken out of context, we will find it difficult to find a candidate who will survive, because everyone has said something in their life that could be discussed politically for a long time. i will of course support the commission, which will act as the president has assured us, and i wish it a happy journey. (applause) i would like to thank you.
(on behalf of the group). mr. chairman, colleagues. the waste management objectives that the new member states have committed to during the accession negotiations are not simple for most of them. this also applies to the different types of packaging waste, according to the european union directive of 1994. all the new member states have requested the granting of transitional periods. as we know, the directive was amended during the accession negotiations and the waste management standards were increased. to stay within the realm of what could be done, it was logical that the new countries should be given new, extended transitional periods. and that's what we're talking about today. new countries are now establishing their own packaging waste management systems and the next three years will be crucial in this respect. the systems should be high and the ecological standards feasible and economically acceptable. in this respect, the new countries are pooling their existing experience and, within the framework of legislative possibilities, are drawing on the experience of others. both by the 'best practice examples' they want to repeat and by the failed experiments they want to avoid. in any event, they will try to link the different methods and influence the producers to make the packaging material functional, but at the same time safe and acceptable to consumers. the method of re-using packaging, mentioned in article 5 of the original directive, is one of the methods we want to follow. for example, my country, slovenia, supports the reuse method when it makes sense, both from an environmental and an economic point of view. however, it was impossible to ignore the fact that the interpretation of article 5 of the original directive was the subject of numerous complaints and also of legal proceedings. both parliament and the council have asked the commission to draw up a report, which we have heard today, which will examine the various aspects of the impact on the environment and the internal market. in our political group we are pleased with the extension of the deadlines for new countries proposed in the revised directive. however, taking all the elements into account, we have come to the conclusion that it makes sense to confine the text to its original purpose and not to include anything that is still in the process of development or is still the subject of expert analysis and ongoing proceedings before the european court of justice. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i welcome the ambition of the european council, and of the netherlands in particular, in implementing the lisbon strategy, but i share the concern of the european council that this strategy has not produced the expected results in four years. i also agree with the conclusion of the kok report on weak implementation by member states. i am not talking about the problems of distant galaxies, but about a key project of the union, which is to ensure that by 2010 it has the status of the most dynamic and competitive economy, while taking into account the balanced social and environmental dimensions of development. so we have six bad years ahead of us. i am convinced that we will not succeed by repeating clearly acceptable objectives or by making technical additions to a strategy that is essentially good. what is really missing is the political will and the european spirit. in times of crisis, everyone seems to think of themselves first, but the union's past shows that progress has been made when it has acted in solidarity, with common sense and a common will. the high objectives set by the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved by acting in a disjointed, non-uniform and partial way, let alone by playing by different rules for different member states. it is important to work simultaneously with key actors on all relevant fronts and at all levels. i hope that the european parliament, as the most legitimate representative of the interests of the citizens of the union, will contribute to the strengthening of the political will of the member states and to the leadership excellence of the joint institutions involved by monitoring the implementation of the lisbon strategy with responsibility. i have, of course, an understanding of the unfavourable global economic context, but i would like to see it not as a reason for excusing itself, but as an incentive for an enlarged european union to find answers to those questions that others cannot.
madam president, mr president of the commission. i asked for the floor to express my warm and sincere appreciation of the developments of the past few weeks and to express my satisfaction with your and our conduct in appointing your commission. by your decision to postpone the vote on the commission and, mr president, by listening to parliament's mood and making welcome changes in the composition of your commission, you have, mr president, de facto shown respect for parliament and contributed to its reputation and power. it is now time for parliament to make the same smart move and, by giving a large measure of support, to contribute to the reputation and strength of your commission. i believe that this is a necessary step towards mutually reinforcing the roles of the main european institutions, which will hopefully also help to increase the confidence of our fellow european citizens in both the european idea and the european union. mr president of the commission, europe deserves a strong parliament. europe deserves a strong commission, and we need to do so. the tasks ahead of us in this mandate require vision, ambition and, as you rightly said, strong institutional partnership. europe certainly needs strong political leadership. at least two tasks are essential. the success of the lisbon strategy and the completion of the ratification of the european constitutional treaty. you've said a lot about the first task, mr. president, and not enough about the second. so let me conclude this speech by calling on you to accept the success of ratification, that is, the ratification of the european treaty as part of your personal and collective political responsibility. i wish you much success in your work.
council. i do not have anything to add. i hope my answer was enough to explain the position.
council. the council is aware of the problem posed by the need to strike a balance between security concerns and trade efficiency. the question of the development of consistent cargo security requirements and a need to ensure minimal damage to trade is regularly raised in the framework of eu-us policy dialogue on transport and border security. in this context, the eu-us agreement on the container security initiative signed last april, aims to agree mutually acceptable and reciprocal standards that would make burdensome additional controls upon arrival of goods in the us unnecessary. in particular, this agreement sets up a working group designed inter alia to improve and establish standards practicable for industry partnership programmes, to improve supply-chain security and facilitate the movement of legitimate trade. also in the context of the eu-us policy dialogue on transport and border security, the eu is actively seeking us cooperation regarding the us bioterrorism act, in order to eliminate any potential negative impacts of this legislation on eu exports to the us. regarding the practical measures to be implemented in order to facilitate international trade activities with the us, to the benefit of eu firms, the council invites the honourable member to raise this question with the commission.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would add that these are not small problems for european companies. in this context, i am of course thinking in particular of slovenian companies. these are serious problems that they have in america because they never know how long it's going to take customs to inspect the goods. in this respect, i would like to suggest to you and, of course, to the commission that you examine the possibility of the customs authorities, in the context of trade regulations, indicating in advance the maximum time that can be taken to examine containerised goods. that way, suppliers wouldn't miss deadlines and customers in america would be happy. in short, we would achieve free trade between the european union and the united states of america. thank you so much.
mr president, many in this chamber have heard the rhetorical question of how far europe's borders extend. the recent events in ukraine have made it clear that europe is certainly bigger than many thought and believed until yesterday. and the democratic spirit of europe, despite the harsh eastern winter, is once again on the march, and with determination. the demonstrators in kiev do not insist on protecting the opposition candidate yushchenko, but defend ukraine, defend the territorial integrity of ukraine and demonstrate in support of the rule of law, or in support of the rule of law. i am also a strong supporter of a united ukraine, our partner and also our strong immediate neighbour. voters were not only choosing between two candidates, but they were also voting against one candidate. they voted against prime minister yanukovych, who in many eyes represents oligarchs and a corrupt state. it was and is a rebellion of the humiliated and the disgruntled. it's about human pride and basic human dignity. this is a fundamental human right and therefore ukrainian women and ukrainian people deserve not only our solidarity and support, but also our help and action. resistance and resistance when they have nothing left to lose is the last hope for them and for us. for us, this is primarily a responsibility for the concrete actions of our european and other institutions. i congratulate the commissioner, but i would like to draw your attention to something. ukraine has already made a great contribution to democracy and peace. she gave up nuclear weapons, which was a huge contribution. he deserves a reward for that, too.
thank you very much, mr. vice president. turkey is our long-standing neighbor, ally and partner. turkey is a long-standing candidate with a successful market economy, which has been waiting for years for a date to open negotiations. it's very different from ukraine in that respect. turkey is like a big, long train that is hard to move, but has moved a long time ago and is moving towards democracy more and more safely and faster. we let the turkish european train run into the tunnel. there's no room for the orient express to maneuver there either. trains don't slalom, trains don't turn around in the tunnel. turkey must and wants to move forward towards democracy and europe and has no other choice. i support the enlargement of the european union and the europeanisation of turkey. no other european union mechanism brings more stability, more predictability and more development to the east than the date for turkey. turkey would certainly recognise cyprus if all of cyprus were in the european union. when all of cyprus is in the european union, the turkish army will no longer be there. this is the path to strategic moves and to strategic goals. that's why i support europe, and that's why i support turkey. thank you so much.
mr president, i shall be voting in favour of this report, along with other related decisions taken by the european union in recent times. i take it, above all, as a message to turkey that we are satisfied with the recent democratic reforms. at the same time, it is of course quite clear that these are insufficient to be more precise about the further integration process of turkey into the european union. turkey is obliged, like all other candidate countries, to fulfil all the conditions. that's the point of my little act. i would like to stress that the conditions for further enlargement, especially with a country as sensitive as turkey, must be met by the european union itself. it has committed itself to this by the copenhagen criteria of being, and i quote, "absorbent enough to accept new members". in other words, it could achieve its political, economic and social objectives. to become more cohesive and effective, it must first be consolidated internally, it must first be strengthened internally, and i consider ratification of the european constitutional treaty to be the most necessary condition for considering further enlargement of the european union.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner figel, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the purpose of the europass is to create a single framework of european union documents to achieve better transparency of citizens' qualifications and competences. this should also contribute to the achievement of the lisbon strategy, while at the same time helping to improve the quality of education in europe. the europass documents are: the europass cv, the europass mobility, which records periods of learning completed by holders outside their country, the europass diploma supplement, which contains information on the holders' educational achievements at higher education level, the europass language map, which allows the presentation of language skills, the europass certificate supplement, which describes the skills and qualifications defined by the vocational training certificate. citizens may use individual europass documents or the entire document folder on a voluntary basis. in the following years, however, it will be possible to add new documents, particularly in the field of information technology. on 21 april 2004, the european parliament adopted its position on this legislative proposal at first reading of the codecision procedure, adopting 14 amendments which were almost fully taken into account. the european council reached political agreement on this draft at its meeting on 27 and 28 may. after consideration of the draft document in the committee on culture, a decision was unanimously adopted, with one abstention, to adopt europass immediately in the european parliament's plenary session. as rapporteur, i support the europass proposal and i am in favour of its swift implementation. it is in the interest of the citizens of the union as well as of the commission and the dutch presidency to ensure that the benefits of the application of this document are maintained. the proposed date of entry into force of the instrument is 1 january 2005. the timely introduction of the proposed europass will also allow the timely preparation of all procedures for its implementation. the proposal makes each member state of the union responsible for implementation at national level. to this end, each member state shall establish a national europass centre responsible for coordinating activities in this field. the european network of national europass centres will also be established. their activities shall be coordinated by the commission. the tasks of the europass national centres shall be to coordinate, in cooperation with the relevant national authorities, activities relating to the accessibility or issuing of europass documents, to set up and manage the national information system, to promote the use of europass, to ensure, in cooperation with the relevant national authorities, that relevant information and guidance on europass is available to every citizen, to provide information and guidance on learning opportunities in europe and on the structure of education and training systems, to manage community financial support for all related activities at national level, and to participate in the european network of national centres. the national centre shall act as the implementing body at national level. the commission and the member states shall ensure that appropriate representation and information activities are carried out at community and national level, targeting citizens, education and training providers, social partners and enterprises. the commission shall also regularly inform the parliament and the council of the implementation of these activities. the first report and evaluation will be after three years from the date of entry into force of the document, the subsequent reports every four years. given that education is at the heart of the lisbon strategy, the europass documents will greatly improve the mobility of european citizens in education and employment and enable closer cooperation and integration between the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists - madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur and also to bulgaria. she's closed all the chapters and she's an example and an inspiration to all the neighbors. all neighbors, i repeat. it would be even more exemplary if it took a step further in its attitude towards minorities, and in addition to the turkish minority, did more for other minorities living in bulgaria. the balkans, the old mountain, is their anthem, and to call the balkans a political problem is incorrect in bulgaria's case. bulgaria already belongs to western europe, what we have to deal with in the future is the western balkans. that is why, commissioner, it seems important that now that we are talking about bulgaria, we should also pay some attention to macedonia, which has already applied for membership of the european union, and that the european union should also take a step forward. the united states recognized her under a name she chose herself. we still insist on the name fyrom and it is time to take a step forward, because that too would be a big step towards the europeanization of this area. in an hour and a half, mr. commissioner, you will be meeting with a delegation from serbia and montenegro. this is the first time that this delegation has come to the european parliament, and i think that the example of bulgaria should be used as an incentive for all its neighbours to do more and better for the predictability and stability of this part of the world in the future. so i think we can all learn from bulgaria, and we can learn a lot from bulgaria, its first neighbour, which we have so massively supported today, and said yes to start negotiations. i'm talking about turkey, you know. bulgaria is the last country on the road to turkey, and i think it is right that all of us who have anything to do with this should support all of these countries to cooperate as much as possible politically and economically with each other and to enable the further enlargement of the european union.
