mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i'd like to thank mrs palacio for her efforts on aviation safety. i agree with what she's said. i would also like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the plane crash at sharm el-sheikh in egypt. i would then like to deal with the sensitive aspects of the discussions with the united states on aviation safety. the commission should be honoured for its fight to defend the integrity of the negotiations with the united states on the air passenger lists. some of us in the delegation for relations with the united states were in the united states discussing these issues. we know, in particular, how extremely difficult it is to get the united states to strike what we consider to be a reasonable and balanced balance between counter-terrorism and human rights. the negotiations have been partially successful and partially unsatisfactory. the united states has made some major concessions, however. the fact that information can be stored for three and a half years is positive from the american point of view. from a european perspective, however, this is hardly acceptable. however, in this case it is also about creating well-functioning links between the eu and the us so that industry, trade and air traffic can function and develop. in the light of this, it is urgent to find a solution that does not put an end to these contacts at a time when the economic situation is improving. i should warn you, however, of the contagious effects. three and a half years cannot be a template for the eu as we move forward with our own data protection and law enforcement legislation. in europe we have stronger protection of human rights than in the united states, especially in terms of privacy. we should be proud of that protection. as we in the eu develop our own counter-terrorism measures - in many cases similar but not identical to those taken by the us - we must defend our privacy protection. cooperation and coordination with the united states on these issues is necessary, but we cannot abandon our own principles of human rights. who wants to see armed guards and general requirements for fingerprints on european air traffic? the agreement must fall if the united states does not respect the protection of human rights. we cannot afford any room for loose interpretations on either side, either economically or humanly. the commission must have clear assurances on every point regarding interpretation and compliance. a broader international agreement on aviation safety could be a step in that direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr herzog, for a very, very extensive work and for many fruitful discussions, even if we have not been entirely in agreement. i would also like to thank the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, who have contributed a lot of discussion and many good amendments so that we have finally got a result from the committee on economic and monetary affairs which i think is very good. i am opposed to a general framework directive. in my view, this is not beneficial, but rather confusing. it forms an additional layer of legislation between the internal market competition rules and the sectoral directives and also hinders product development. the process of gradual deregulation of markets in the eu has been the most important component of improving services of general economic interest over the past decade. one of the reasons for deregulation was the generally poor quality of services before the market was opened. i am anxious that we do not have a monopoly situation again. i would therefore urge parliament to follow the conclusions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy in the herzog report and not to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the left. if we follow the position of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we stimulate competition and product development and provide opportunities to offer consumers alternatives, both cheaper and better.
mr president, i would like to thank you. herzog has had a most ungrateful task. if there is one area where we are deeply divided in this house and in public opinion throughout the eu, it is precisely this area. the problem is that we have single market legislation which actually invites unlimited and unrestricted competition in both goods and services. this is something we cannot live with. it is said that this is mainly a matter of services of economic interest. what services are not of economic interest? is the education sector not of economic interest? isn't the healthcare sector of economic interest? are not all social services of great economic interest? it is all about welfare policy and we are talking about real political dynamism. if we want to balance development and stop this general attack on the welfare sectors, what should we do? should we go for a framework directive? i'm a little uncertain. a framework directive could in itself limit the scope of internal market legislation. it would be good to soften the climate and make the contradictions a little less violent. but in the political climate we have today and will have in the coming years, i fear that such a framework directive would be strongly dominated by market forces and right-wing forces. in that case, such a directive is a step in the wrong direction. then it could be a trap instead. is decentralisation a better option? is it better to invest in protecting local and regional activities? perhaps it would open up some other possibilities for a kind of protection and increased opportunities to wage a local struggle to preserve what we wish to preserve. above all, however, we would need time for research and discussion rather than the gigantic battle that we will face in the coming years.
in the case of amendment no 22, we believe that it is of the utmost importance to take action against environmental crime at sea. we welcome increased european cooperation between national coastguards in joint operations, planning and skills development. we therefore do not think it necessary to create a new parallel organization at european level. we look forward to the work of the european maritime safety authority.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) thousands of deliberate discharges of waste and cargo residues, including chemicals and oil, take place every year. the need for common legislation in this environmental field is therefore indisputable. on the other hand, it has not been demonstrated, much less proved, that the most appropriate and effective method of putting an end to these irregularities is to set up another european authority, a common european coast guard. better coordination between member states and increased accountability by national governments could prove equally effective. i therefore voted against amendments nos 6 and 22, which were nevertheless adopted (by 382 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 20 abstentions, and 392 votes in favour, 71 votes against and 33 abstentions, respectively).
in the case of the nuclear industry, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is maintained. we believe that the swedish safety agency, together with the iaea, wenra and other existing organisations, complies satisfactorily with the requirements for the drawing up of safety regulations and the control of these. we have doubts, however, whether the eu has the necessary powers under the treaty to decide on a nuclear safety directive, at least as regards the seppänen report. we have chosen to vote in favour of the report in the final vote because it has not been possible to vote on the proposed legal basis for the directive and because the report is clearly much better than the commission's proposal.
in the case of the nuclear industry, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. i also voted in favour of amendment no 30 by the green group, which seeks to remove obstacles to fairer competition between nuclear and other energy sources on the energy market.
in writing. - (sv) i voted in favour of amendment no 19 by the green group (which was rejected by 71 votes to 235 with 11 abstentions). this amendment emphasizes that inhabitants of potentially affected areas in neighbouring countries should have the same rights as citizens of the country where the plant is located, for example, in public consultations when granting loans from the community budget. it is important that the espoo convention is respected in practice.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner nielson, this is the police. of course, it was with great shock that we learned the terrible news of the earthquake in bam. in the middle of the christmas weekend, television screens were filled with horrific images of injured and disaster-stricken people, thousands desperately searching for their loved ones in a city in ruins. on behalf of the eldr group, i would like to express our deep sympathy and condolences to the iranian people at this difficult time. of course, the eu should continue to work with the iranian authorities to help provide the victims with care, shelter and other necessities. we should also help rebuild this beautiful historic city. our concern for and solidarity with the iranian people also extends to their access to democracy and human rights. the eldr group is very concerned. there is still a lot to be done, because the iranian regime is anything but democratic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we are extremely concerned about the latest developments and the guardian council's interference in the upcoming election. by rejecting thousands of candidates across the country - more than half of those who applied - the guardian council of iran is once again demonstrating its unwillingness to reform the iranian government. it sounds hollow to classify the underdogs as a bunch of criminals on the grounds that they have been in contact with, among other things, a number of groups that the guardian council dislikes. by that logic, a quarter of the legislators already in office would be criminals. if iran ever wants to be counted among the democratic states, it must accept that political legitimacy is derived from the people in free elections, not by the arbitrary interpretation of the ayatollahs of what is the will of god. the iranian people, like everyone else, want democracy and human rights. we in the eldr group would like to call on the iranian leaders not to interfere in the elections but to allow the candidates to stand so that they can be as fair and open as possible. in this context, i would like to join my colleagues in calling on the commission to strengthen and develop the human rights dialogue with iran. it's got to be more than just polite coffee talk. for it to be meaningful, it must be clear, persistent and consistent, and it must be regularly evaluated. i hope that you, commissioner nielson, together with chris patten and javier solana, can act to bring fresh blood into these talks, also in the light of the work to get iran to ratify and implement the non-proliferation treaty.
- the next item is the commission communication on services in the internal market. after the commissioner's speech, we will use the catch-the-eye procedure.
commission. madam president, i assume that you want me to say something – i used to speak your language, but i have not done so for about 40 years! i have come to the house this evening to make two declarations: the first is on the services directive, which the commission decided upon this afternoon; the other is a short announcement on behalf of the commission, and in particular of my colleague mr solbes, on the strategy for economic policy coordination and surveillance. i shall start with the services directive. it is with great pleasure that i can announce to you today that the commission has adopted a proposal for a directive to create a real internal market in services. it is an ambitious but balanced and gradual proposal, which aims to set service businesses free of legal and administrative barriers to the development of cross-border activities. it is potentially the biggest boost to the internal market since its launch in 1993. it will improve the competitiveness not only of the services sector but also of the whole european economy, including the manufacturing sector. the proposal is a major element in getting the lisbon agenda back on track. it is the result of a long process launched by the commission's services strategy in december 2000. it addresses the internal market barriers identified in the commission’s report on the state of the internal market in services in july 2002. the european parliament was involved throughout the process and adopted supportive opinions on both these documents. i am therefore delighted that i can come to you first and present our proposed solution today. the proposal responds to the european parliament's call for a comprehensive proposal to ensure free movement of services by means of applying the country of origin principle, administrative cooperation and, where strictly necessary, harmonisation. the proposed directive is comprehensive in that it covers all the services that are at present unable to benefit from the internal market because of legal or administrative barriers. it covers both the freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. it will benefit a wide variety of services, including professional services, business services, security services, environmental services, distribution services, travel agencies, hotels, restaurants and entertainment, as well as health services. only those services that are already covered by wide-ranging specific eu law, such as financial services, telecommunications and transport, are excluded. in order to make it easier to establish a service business in another member state, the proposal will cut red tape through a large-scale administrative simplification process. a number of restrictions on establishment, such as nationality requirements or 'economic needs tests', will be abolished. in addition, member states will be obliged to set up electronic procedures and make available to service providers single points of contact dealing with authorisations and other formalities. unnecessary authorisation procedures will be screened and removed; remaining authorisation schemes will be made more transparent and predictable, being based exclusively on objective criteria known in advance. other restrictions, such as requirements that limit the number of outlets per head of population, or fixed tariffs, will also undergo a transparent process of screening and mutual evaluation. in order to make it easier to provide services across borders, the proposed directive aims to implement in practice the country of origin principle, whereby once a service provider is operating legally in one member state, it can provide its services in others without having to comply with further rules in those 'host' member states. in order to underpin this principle, the proposal provides for enhanced administrative cooperation between member states and for some basic, harmonised, eu-wide quality requirements. it will, for instance, require appropriate professional indemnity insurance for services giving rise to particular risks. the proposed directive recognises the specific nature of the regulated professions and the particular role of self-regulation and calls on professional associations to establish european codes of conduct on professional ethics. it is complementary to and fully compatible with the proposed directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. in order to make it possible to use services offered in other member states, the proposal also clarifies and strengthens the rights of users of services. it therefore makes it clear that those rights prevent member states from imposing restrictions such as requiring authorisation to use services (for example of architects or builders from other member states), or discriminatory tax rules making services from other eu countries more costly. the proposed directive clarifies the rights of patients by setting out, based on the case-law of the european court of justice, the conditions under which national social security systems must reimburse the costs of medical care received in other member states. the proposed directive seeks to create more cross-border service activity, which will give businesses new opportunities in new markets, so that they can grow and create more jobs. increased competition will also be likely to reduce prices and help to disseminate best practice and encourage innovation. in particular, smes will greatly benefit from the improved legal certainty and increased opportunities for cross-border supply. the effect on the economy as a whole will be higher competitiveness and more and better jobs. therefore, the proposal needs to be adopted, written into national law and implemented as quickly as possible. this means that it must get the highest political support from all the institutions involved. the commission is aware that, unfortunately, this proposal arrives too late to achieve first reading in this parliament. however, given that it meets the european parliament's request for a comprehensive approach to create a true internal market in services, i trust that members will give it due consideration and start to discuss it in order to provide a sound basis for the new parliament's work and show the way to the council of ministers. that is what i would like to say on the directive on services. now, very briefly, on the other subject, i should like to say that the commission has decided today to challenge the council conclusions in the european court of justice. this challenge will, however, concentrate exclusively on procedural elements and will not touch on the country-specific economic surveillance aspects of the council conclusions. more details are available in a document literally just made public, with the reference number ip/04/35.
- thank you very much, lieutenant bolkestein. we would be particularly grateful if you would inform us of the result immediately.
commission. madam president, i thank the members that have put questions to the commission. first, i should like to deal with the subject of the services directive. i will then move on to the other subject. i thank mr harbour and mrs villiers for their support for the directive, or at least for what i said about that directive in general terms. mr harbour said quite frankly that approval by parliament is all very well, but what about the other half of the legislative body in the union – the council? he is quite right in saying that the council – not only on the issue that he mentioned, but others as well – has been laggardly. that is very bad. sales promotion, the example quoted by mr harbour, is only one example: there are others. mr harbour asked for the council to accept a serious timetable. i wish i could achieve this. as mr harbour knows, the commission is very powerful, but it is not powerful enough to force the council to stick to a timetable. we are in the hands of the presidency. mr harbour can count on the commission to impress upon the irish presidency that it should do some serious work on this. however, when all is said and done, the presidency presides and the commission plays the role of the greek tragedy chorus: it looks on, but there is not much it can do but say 'woe!'. nevertheless, we will chivvy the irish presidency along, and tell it to get on with the job. mrs villiers complained that financial services are not included. the reason for that is that we have a very elaborate framework for financial services, as mrs villiers knows better than almost anyone else. the financial services action plan, with its 42 measures, is now well on its way to completion. we did not want to muddy the water or go over the same ground again, and that is why, as with some other fields that are regulated by other legal instruments, we thought it better to exclude financial services. with regard to the stability and growth pact, and the fact that the commission has decided to challenge the decision of the council in the court of justice, mr mombaur said that the commission must insist on budgetary discipline. the commission certainly does that: that is why we are going to court. i am pleased that on the whole – if not across the board – parliament supports the commission in that endeavour. the commission believes that we live in a community of law. the stability pact is an agreement between parties and an agreement between parties is the law between parties, and that law must be upheld. i said earlier that the proceeding the commission would like to start in the court of justice will concern procedural aspects. we do not think it is the proper role of the european court of justice to tell the union how to formulate economic policy. therefore, the court will focus on procedural aspects – the areas where it believes that the ecofin council has gone astray. having said that, i should like to point out that procedure and substance form a whole. it is for the court of justice to decide where the member states – or the council – have gone astray. i hope that will happen soon. we do not want this procedure to drag on for years. we hope that a fast-track procedure can be followed so that we will receive the opinion of the court in the autumn. mrs villiers repeated her well-known song in pointing out that she is against the euro or, at any rate, that britain should not join emu. i will not enter into a debate on that now. i know that fools rush in where angels fear to tread, so i will not get mixed up in the uk debate on the euro. she also said that 'inevitably' – that is the word she used – these problems arise when there are 12 countries without one over-arching economic policy that is followed by all 12. i beg to differ. twelve countries have signed up to the stability and growth pact. if, and as long as, they do what they signed up to, there is no problem about 12 countries following different economic policies. as long as their budget deficits are below the famous barrier of 3%, i do not see what more we need. no doubt the commission will come up with more proposals along those lines. that is my answer to mrs villiers on the point of the link between sovereignty in economic affairs and deficits in fiscal policy.
- thank you, commissioner bolkestein. - i'll see you in a few. this meeting is closed.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0455/2003) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on detergents (10595/3/2003 - c5-0521/2003 - 2002/0216 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr nobilia).
madam president, i would like to thank you. our group has chosen to support the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur. we would have liked to go further in several areas and have stricter legislation, but we think it is very important that we take a decision and that this comes into force as soon as possible. the possibility for individual member states to maintain and introduce stricter rules in this area, as several member states have already done, are proposals which are particularly important to us. one of the main issues is the abolition of phosphates. there are good reasons to end that use immediately. we know that the phosphates lead to a lot of over-fertilization. in the marine environment, for example, they create major environmental problems. we know that there are adequate substitutes and that countries have in practice phased out the use of phosphates. sometimes in politics there is a contradiction between what is politically possible and what is desirable. we have therefore chosen to make a compromise which is politically possible, i.e. phasing out phosphates over three years. it would be desirable to phase them out today. we'll try to go both ways. we will vote for the green amendments to phase them out immediately, but we believe that it is the political compromise that will be adopted in the end.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and all the parties involved on the proposal that has been put forward. i think they have done a surprisingly good job. it is an important report for the environment but also a major and important consumer issue, because detergents make up a large part of what we use every day. it is necessary to provide consumers with complete and sufficient information to enable them to guide market developments by choosing environmentally friendly products. as regards phosphates, the argument in sweden, where we still have some detergents containing phosphates, is that we have both treatment plants that handle the phosphates and that the alternatives are not entirely problem-free. i have accepted these arguments. in amendments nos 40 to 46, which the green group is now tabled, we note that the scientific committee has said that phosphates are a major problem and that the alternatives available do not cause these problems. that said, i think it is time to ban them altogether if they are so dangerous, if they are destroying the mediterranean, etc. let's not wait for that. i would therefore like us to vote in favour of these amendments so that the commission can make a proposal on this.
commission. madam president, i thank members of parliament for this very constructive debate. i want to come back to the issue of phosphates, which was raised by a number of members. we must remember that fertilisers are a very important source of phosphates: about 50% come from fertilisers. years ago, in the country which i know well, i proposed taxation on fertilisers high in phosphates. that solved the problem to a certain extent. in many countries the authorities have acted. the use of phosphates in detergents is effectively banned by means of national legislation or voluntary agreements in member states that have deemed such measures necessary. national measures currently exist in the majority of member states and, in some cases, they have been in place for many years. that is why the commission will now concentrate on ensuring that any proposal in this area has a secure scientific basis and that it has an added value at community level. the scientific committee found that the consultants' report on phosphates was seriously lacking in some respects – for example concerning the impact of alternatives – and it is has identified a number of other areas for which data is still lacking. i want to assure you that the commission is fully committed to filling these data gaps as rapidly as possible and to proposing whatever measures may be justified on that basis.
- thank you, lieutenant liikanen. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0474/2003) by mr sandbæk, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission updating the community action programme: rapid action against hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is the moral duty of the european union and the individual member states to make every effort to combat aids, malaria and tuberculosis. 20,000 deaths a day, or more than 7 million deaths a year, are horrendous figures. we can think of the plague that raged here in europe in the middle ages. the black plague is back in our world. 41 percent of the world's population is at risk of contracting malaria. in the light of the un millennium development goals and the g8 summit in evian on sustainable development, i would like to say to mr poul nielson that no area should be spared in terms of providing for people affected by malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/aids and in terms of prevention. it is really about the rearmament of the entire civilization of this earth. women must no longer be exploited, sexually degraded and subjected to a slavery which is totally unworthy of a modern and civilized society. we need a new dignity on the part of men towards women all over the world. a society with a new and strengthened way of life is needed, where men show respect for women and for the dignity of the human person. i would urge commissioner nielson to get involved in lifestyle issues, not least in relation to the male lifestyle which in this way, not least in relation to the spread of hiv/aids, degrades women and contributes to a completely immoral spread.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think the commission's update report was very good. i also think that sandbaek has made a very good report. she has put forward a number of proposals which strengthen the areas where the commission has indicated that strengthening is needed to achieve the objectives of poverty reduction and the fight against these diseases. i would like to take up paragraph 26 of the sandbaek report, which is very important. it reminds us that the annual repayment of debts and interest amounts to almost 40 percent of the gdp of the least developed countries. this is tremendous; i think the eu should take the initiative to write off its debt. it could also be possible to allocate such a debt write-off to be used primarily for hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis and perhaps also for education. this would indeed speed up and strengthen the fight against poverty.
commission. madam president, mrs sandbæk referred to the unspent edf money that could be used for this. the amount of commitments not yet spent on the budget part of our development cooperation is eur 11 billion. for the edf it is eur 8 billion. we are now at a point where it takes the commission and the member states pretty much the same number of years to implement things. today we are not slower, but we have a mountain of old decisions to implement. this is true for both budget and edf areas. at the end of 2003 we found that we had reached a level of edf spending of around eur 2.5 billion: the highest ever, around 60% higher than the level when this commission took office. it was announced to member states that they had better be prepared to pay up for the last quarter of that year so that we could deliver on this better performance. unfortunately, however, some member states did not pay their contributions, so we had to ask them to make up their minds as to whether they were serious about their wish for the commission to perform better. the commission is serious about that. the trips agreement is being addressed by the commission. we were pleased that it was possible, before cancún, to have concluded this agreement, after waiting for the us since december of the year before. we are now in the process of working out how to implement this in terms of legislation. we look forward to doing this. we will give this a very high priority. the money being committed by the union, member states and the commission for the global fund is eur 2.6 billion. all in all, the total amount pledged to the fund is eur 4.8 billion. i agree with those who said that this is still not enough money, but it should be considered that our budget support for the health sector and even our general budget support makes it possible for our developing partner countries to increase the effort in basic health services. the annual spending per capita on public health services in sub-saharan africa is somewhere between two and six dollars. so even with antiretrovirals becoming very inexpensive, the system to administer them and to make sure they are correctly handled is not there. i do not mean that we should give up on treatment, but i insist that prevention, to put it quite clearly, is the only cure in terms of hiv/aids. i would tend to agree with mr sacrédeus regarding lifestyle change, especially for men. this is why the whole agenda on reproductive and sexual health and rights is the key to getting it right on hiv/aids. more people in africa – especially children – die from malaria than hiv/aids. these are poverty- and ignorance-related diseases, so the whole link with fighting poverty and the challenge of meeting the millennium development goals makes a lot of sense. i wholeheartedly thank parliament for its cooperation and the backing that we have received. let us continue to make this a team effort.
- thank you, chief nielson. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0329/2003) by mr bébéar, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the new partnership for africa's development (nepad) (2003/2106 (ini)).
commission. madam president, i shall start by commenting on mrs kinnock's remark about the need to mobilise similar support for other things as we do for the peace facility. we do not spend similar amounts of money on all the other things: we spend much more. what is new about the peace facility is that we are creating a basis for spending money on things we were never able to spend money on before. funding the implementation of the peace operations decided by africa and implemented in an african context is a new thing. we should make sure that we only use that money for things that cannot be funded through the regular systems already in place. i liked mr corrie's remark about oil-rich african states which could do more. we should come back to this. i also see that it would be very meaningful in the joint parliamentary assembly to discuss the performance of oil-exporting economies and other similar extraction industries in africa. this discussion is just starting up, but that is in many cases where the big money should be found for social purposes. the fantastic things about nepad were its timing and character, and the ambition of accepting exposure and measurement as regards the global criteria relating to democracy. these african countries are saying that they want to be judged on these same principles, echoing what we had all agreed on in the cotonou framework. they wanted this to be taken up. they did it up against the g8, which attracted much attention globally and, in that sense, raised the stakes in the process of democratisation in africa. nepad, and democracy in africa, are still very new. the best performers have had only two – at the most three – reasonably fair elections. we tend to forget that: the best performers have experienced two acceptable democratic elections. there is not much more than a big handful of those best cases. however, things are moving in the right direction. this peer review is a fantastic, very daring endeavour. of course they had to institutionalise. it was a wise move to set it into the context of african union as soon as possible, because, as mr van orden correctly pointed out, what would they have done with zimbabwe and a large number of other cases if the original five heroes of nepad had handled that? they would have run out of political authority. it would have been perceived as a kind of ganging-up – showing the others how to do things. instead, it was wisely embedded – if i may use that word with reference to that continent – into the african union, which took it up. this work is continuing. it is quite fantastic that they are lining up standards to get through this screening in the peer review process. i told them in one discussion that it looks as if it is more difficult to get good marks in the peer review process than it is to fulfil the criteria we have defined in order to become a member of the european union. it is very ambitious. i can only recommend that everybody interested in africa studies how they are setting the mark there. i have warned them that it may be too ambitious, but they want this to be a global standard for governance. they know it is not going to be easy. institutionally, we look forward very much to a systematic, close, well-organised collaboration with the emerging commission in addis ababa. i hope that we will get back on track and be able to manage the difficulties – also with reference to zimbabwe. i hope that 2004 will be a positive turning-point, enabling us at full speed to resume the eu-africa dialogue.
- thank you, chief nielson. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0477/2003) by mr prets, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the preservation of cultural diversity: the role of the european regions and international organisations (e.g. unesco and the council of europe) (2002/2269 ((ini)).
commission - madam president, you will understand that, because there are no fighters in the chamber, i am not going to answer all those who, as i understand very well, left the chamber at a quarter past midnight. but let me say a few words that are very dear to my heart. it is the luxembourgish woman who is speaking to you, and it is the luxembourgish woman who has developed with you the european year of languages, of all languages, without exception: recognised languages, unrecognised languages, majority languages, minority languages, because i have always said that there are no major languages, there are no minor languages, there are only mother tongues, and they are all major by definition. so, let's continue in that direction. we have developed our language action plan based on this multilingualism, and let me tell you that multilingualism includes our non-official languages, but certainly not esperanto, because we have enough living languages that are struggling to create, alongside that, artificial languages. so let us teach our children languages and, in this regard, i am still glad to see that almost all - and i would even say all - of our ministers of education are making an effort, and some are starting from scratch. they make an effort to introduce languages into primary education. there's been a huge improvement in the last two years. we are still far from the end, but we are making progress and at least the ministers who are not making an effort have a bad conscience. and it is up to you, members of parliament, to continue to give them a bad conscience so that reforms at local, regional and national level can be implemented. the commissioner also tells every minister he meets that maintaining multilingualism in europe is a matter of survival. i would now like to answer some specific questions, even though the members are no longer in the chamber. as regards unesco and our allies, it is clear that at unesco we need all countries to form a majority in order to adopt a convention on cultural diversity, and we need to set the example of cultural diversity at the global level. so what we are trying to do, and we are succeeding in doing, by setting an example and insisting on respect for minorities, is to change mindsets, especially in countries - and some have been mentioned - that are very far from perfect, and we all know that. you parliamentarians know this, because you are constantly discussing this, but it is by taking these minorities with us and telling them that we do not accept that they are left behind that we can help them, not by building a wall between those who are right and those who are wrong. i would like to give you a very concrete example. for the first time last may we opened the cannes film festival with european cinema day. twenty-five ministers, proud of their national film production, accompanied by young and well-known directors, showed the world the importance they attached to cinema. and on the afternoon of this european cinema day, we organised, with our partners worldwide, a conference on world cinema to give a voice to those who have not and to give a chance to the cinema of those minorities who, without europe's help, would never have had the opportunity to express themselves. that must be the european policy. it is a policy that sets an example for us and presents our unique model. i now turn to mr beazley, who asked me a very specific question, asking whether we would be drawing up a communication on unesco. mr beazley, i do not know if you have noticed, but in august the commission published, for the first time in the history of the european union, i believe, a communication on unesco, which was an instrument to move things forward. now we've won a battle. i say a battle, because it's not over. the groups hope - the first one has started to meet - that there will now be discussions at unesco level. i believe that at the end of 2004 or the beginning of 2005 the international negotiations in the strict sense of the term will be able to begin. it is only then, when we have a starting text, that we can define what europe is seeking to achieve in these negotiations. it is not enough to present a communication every three months which would be of no use. i am a believer in realpolitik, as the germans say: i want to take action that produces results. our communication last summer helped to get things started and to show that europe was involved in the development of an international instrument. now, as soon as the discussion has produced the first results, we will state the directions we wish to give to the debate. so let's be effective and not activism for the sake of activism. i regret to have to tell mrs junker that, as regards the concentration of the media, we may have the same idea at the outset, but we are also based on the same treaty. however, it prevents the commission from presenting an instrument for harmonising and preserving the diversity and pluralism of the media. the treaty being what it is and the commission being the guardian of the treaties, i cannot do better. i will never get the commission's approval if i depart from the treaty. we can only hope, madam president, that the new treaty, as several members have clearly stated, will contain much stronger elements concerning this diversity in all its aspects, because it is multifaceted. it concerns not only dance and the arts, but also and above all language, minorities, cinema, and the pluralism of expressions, and therefore of the media and the audiovisual sector. i would therefore like the new treaty to give more scope to the representatives of the people first of all, but also to the commission's initiative to take it a step further. it is said that the world is not a commodity, much less culture. in this connection, i believe that the commission has made it very clear in its action on external trade, but also on the authorisation of national aid, for example, for public and other cinema and television, that it is not prepared to accept that culture is considered a commodity. but even if it is not a commodity, culture has a price and must be paid. so it is up to us to convince national governments and to ensure that europe can invest enough to keep these cultures alive. europe must have the opportunity to be a living example to the world, to change the world, because even if our experience of diversity and respect for others is not perfect, our example is still interesting. let's lead the way, and the world will be a better place.
- thank you, chief reding. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.) the written declaration (article 120)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the irish presidency is very welcome. we have high expectations, because we know that small countries like ireland can usually be effective and action-oriented presidents. it is also important because the previous italian presidency was so miserable. you not only have your own problems to deal with, you also have to deal with some of the problems that the last presidency created. some of them are in foreign policy. i would like to mention two. the italian presidency failed to criticise the enormous human rights abuses taking place in chechnya. we now expect clarity with russia on this fundamental issue of human rights for the civilian population of chechnya. as for palestine, there was another italian adventure. they were trying to push a more pro-israel line and had a one-sided meeting with sharon. but the reality on palestinian soil is that israel, by building the wall and by expanding settlements, is destroying a possible two-state solution and destroying the possibility for palestinians to live a normal life. the eu must also be clear on this. in addition, israel has recently introduced a kind of visa requirement for the occupied territories, which also applies to eu citizens, aid workers, journalists and others. we expect the eu to protest. however, as regards the environment, which is my area of expertise, i think the presidency's programme is a little thin and not sufficiently concrete. you could have gone a little further in this area. for example, you could have mentioned the importance of getting a good chemical legislation in place quickly and of working with parliament on this issue. the importance of pushing the climate negotiations forward is mentioned in the report itself, but this is a huge task for the eu in the next six months, when the kyoto protocol threatens to collapse. other major issues are the cartagena protocol and the kuala lumpur biodiversity conference, where important decisions will be taken on trade in genetically engineered products. this is the old eu's baby, and it should be protected. another chapter is also missing in this programme, which is otherwise good. this is the crisis of the monetary union. it's time to stop pretending. the monetary union and the stability pact are facing a serious economic and political crisis. it was shown just yesterday when the commission decided to bring an action before the court of justice against the council's decision. the crisis is that rules have been set which do not correspond to reality. when reality and the rules collide, this political crisis arises and the solution can only be one: to reconsider the stability pact as it stands today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president, i would like to thank you. as a swedish conservative speaker, i welcome the irish presidency. it is a new european union which you will hand over to the next presidency in six months' time. with the enlargement of the union under your presidency, the eu's importance will increase and its word will carry more weight. ireland has a great deal of faith in the work of peace. you took the initiative and contributed to a solution and normalisation of the long-running internal conflict on the island of ireland. despite what was said at the recent eu-russia summit, i now appeal to you and the irish presidency to use your confidence and the growing importance of the european union to initiate a genuine peace dialogue between the parties to the chechen war, with a view to putting an end to the atrocities. the war in chechnya is a hotbed for the spread of terrorism. it is an abomination to russia, but also to europe, and the war could have far-reaching consequences for the peace of our part of the world. mr president, what you can do for peace and freedom in europe will be crowned with infinite gratitude by the peoples of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a modern form of colonialism. what is needed is a real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change of approach to our relations with the poor countries. i have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i voted in favour of the report because parliament approved amendment no 2, which defines bushmeat as meat from 'wild animals in tropical regions'. otherwise the unfortunate thing would happen, that the hunting restrictions and the animal welfare would apply to meat from all wild animals, including swedish species such as elk. the swedish moose stock is stable, while hunting is carried out in such a way that the species is not reduced and even less threatened with extinction. regulated swedish elk hunting and illegal hunting of monkeys and other wild, endangered animals are two completely different worlds.
in writing. - (sv) we fully support the recognition of cultural diversity as a fundamental right and we therefore choose to support the prets report on cultural diversity. the eu is and must remain a mosaic of minorities and cultures. as liberals, we always put the individual at the centre of all political decisions. we therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance for international law to confirm that each state or group of states has a legal right to freely determine the cultural policy it wishes to pursue and to strengthen the policy of international cooperation and solidarity in cultural matters. linguistic diversity must also be preserved within the eu. we are, however, skeptical about the idea that the eu should have a legal right to adopt measures in the field of culture and the media to preserve and promote cultural diversity. we therefore do not support the eu developing a legal instrument for cultural diversity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating both the commission and the rapporteur on a very excellent report on a pressing subject. there is no doubt that in our societies there is a great deal of xenophobia and racism, or at least a fear of what comes from outside. there is widespread distrust. you think people from other countries are coming and taking our jobs away from us when it's the opposite. the people who come from other countries have greatly contributed and are contributing to the welfare that we have. i can speak from experience. i was born after the war and grew up in a residential area where the inhabitants were mainly from estonia, latvia, lithuania, and finland. about half my neighbors came as immigrants from other countries. they have contributed to swedish welfare just like everyone else. we would not have the prosperity we have today if these people, along with the rest of us, had not contributed to that prosperity. we're in a different place today. we have a refugee policy and an immigration policy. we must build a common refugee policy based on international conventions. europe must be a refuge for people who are persecuted and at risk of death in other countries. we must have a humane refugee policy in which we take on a shared responsibility. immigration policy is another matter. it is about people who are not in danger of being killed in their own countries, but who would like to come to europe, for their own sake, to have a better life, but also to contribute to our societies, which they do. they are already doing so today, and the need will be greater in the future. we know the demographic situation and we need growth, employment and prosperity in europe. we need to increase employment in the future and we need people for that employment, to be able to cope with elderly care and health care. we need people, also from other countries, along with those who are already here. unfortunately, people coming from other countries are becoming largely unemployed today, and we should of course do something about that. i am convinced that we need an immigration policy. immigrants must be integrated as soon as possible. integration policy is important and employment comes with education. this applies in particular to women, which dybkjær was keen to do. this is important for the sake of women themselves, but also for the integration of the next generation into society. let me also say something about the issue which has created a little bit of turbulence, namely the right to vote. i have experience from the euro vote in sweden. we applied the same rules as in local elections, that is, people from other countries were allowed to vote. they went out and voted very heavily. if they had been allowed to decide the outcome of the swedish vote, sweden would today have the euro as its currency. they were more supportive, they were more european than the other swedes. think about it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. i would like to warmly thank rapporteur kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her forward-looking report on the development of the services sector to create new and, i would stress, important future jobs. at the same time, i would like to express my pleasure and satisfaction that mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, as rapporteur, and the committee as a whole have dealt so favourably with the many amendments i tabled. i would like to mention a number of points here. first, undeclared, i.e. undeclared, work should be converted into regular work in the services sector in order to improve the general business climate and tax morale and create a level playing field. the eu must strengthen cooperation in the fight against undeclared work. secondly, the european parliament should call on the member states to develop and stimulate the home services sector in order to facilitate the possibility of combining work and family life, not least in the light of the fact that the european union has identified the demographic challenge as one of its main issues for the future. thirdly, the european parliament should draw the attention of the member states to the fact that demographic trends in most member states are such that work in the field of elderly care needs to be valued, not least among young people. i want to emphasize this. fourthly, the european parliament should stress to the member states the need to increase the opportunities for disabled people and immigrants to gain access to the labour market in the service sector. such improvements are necessary to meet future needs in areas such as care and care, and to increase the participation and integration of these groups in the labour market and in society. i would also like to stress the need for the report to include the value of entrepreneurship and innovation in the service sector and the development of a dynamic and creatively developed cooperative service and business sector.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i will begin by recalling a little of what we said in 2001 in the report for which i was responsible. we know this is a big problem. it is in all the member states and probably to about the same extent. this was the conclusion of studies carried out by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (dublin foundation). the dublin fund estimated 8%. compare that to workplace violence, where it is estimated that 4 percent of the victims are victims, and sexual harassment, 2 percent. all in all, this kind of harassment, pure violence, psychological violence and sexual harassment, is a big problem. we can also assume that this is a growing problem. why can we do that? because there was a clear link between stress and high stress in the workplace and this problem. we know how the job market is changing today. the labour market and precarious working conditions are changing. safety at the workplace was also of great importance. we are now seeing a change in the organization of working life. we are getting insecurity and less safety in the workplace, which also makes this problem likely to increase. we demanded an analysis at that time, a green paper to give us a better picture of this, and possible legislation, but these were not the only instruments. so you can understand our frustration now that we think nothing has happened. i share your view, madam commissioner, that it is now important to establish contact with the social partners. it is also true that it is important to use many instruments because the legal instrument is not enough. we probably have to work on work organisation issues and influence issues and look at how it works out in the workplace, but we also need legal instruments. it is a good opportunity to propose and implement measures where violence in the workplace is present, including psychological violence in workplaces with bullying. this is an opportunity to do that. there is a need for legal instruments and 'best practice' in work organisation issues at european level. not much has happened at member state level. in sweden we already had legislation and belgium has introduced legislation, but otherwise not much has happened. as this is a community area, it is a matter of health and safety at work, and the commission and we have a responsibility in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank stephen hughes and jan andersson very warmly for raising this issue. i believe that the psychosocial working environment, the spiritual environment, indeed the spirit of the workplace, are fundamental values which are profoundly underestimated in the perhaps too soulless societies into which our european welfare states are developing. i think it is totally unacceptable that employees are abused in their workplace and that they are not seen as co-workers, as the people they are, with their full human dignity. how we treat each other is a matter of decency. it is also, in the extreme, a question of civilization and a question of how we see each other as human beings. i would like to thank you for highlighting this important area of health and safety at work in such a positive way. i believe, as previous speakers have said, and we are unanimous in this house, that this is a very urgent and underestimated area. when we come to the request you make, mr andersson and mr hughes, you hardly believe that there is sufficient protection in national legislation. are we sure about this? let us hope that the swedish legislation, followed by the belgian legislation, can set a healthy pattern for the rest of europe. let us not exhaust that route because it has not been tried in very many countries yet. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. does european legislation make the solution more effective? i am afraid that the problem is being removed and, instead of finding a solution, it is being moved too far away from the workplace. let us examine the national legislative approach in this area.
in writing. - (sv) we have voted in favour of this report because it is a good one. however, we do not accept the content of one of the amendments to the report. the amendment calls on the member states to automatically legalise the situation of immigrants who work without a residence permit. we see this as a direct invitation to people outside the eu to try to immigrate illegally into the eu, and we also see the risks of social dumping that such a situation could entail.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. we regret that the report does not distinguish between the areas of immigration dealt with at european level and those dealt with at national level. we also believe that the concept of citizenship adds no value but rather contributes to confusion. it is unacceptable when the term is given the meaning it has in the report, because it means that the right of individual countries to determine their own electoral laws is not respected. each country has the right to decide which third country nationals may participate in its elections, whether local or european parliamentary.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. member states needing assistance in border surveillance shall be able to obtain it upon request from the competent authority of the member state. the national authorities must remain responsible for the management and surveillance of the member states' borders within the eu. for the reasons stated above, we have decided not to vote. we are also in favour of the content of the report.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i voted against paragraph 4, which was adopted by 277 votes to 129, with 47 abstentions. it supports the creation of a european border guard force, composed of specialised units, to be financed by the community. when required and at the request of the member states, it shall temporarily assist the national authorities in securing certain risky sections of the external borders, without however taking over the powers of the member states. i do not think that the eu should create another military authority, but that it should also be the responsibility of the respective member states in the future. better coordination between member states and acceptance of the increased responsibility of national governments may be a better approach.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have discussed zimbabwe many times in this house, and it is extremely tragic to see how this prosperous country with such enormous potential has gone straight to the edge. zimbabwe has long been a lawless, economically depleted and aids-stricken country. it has a powerful old, insane ruler who's completely out of touch with reality and with his own people. just when you think the worst is about to happen, new reports of the deteriorating situation in the country are coming in. human suffering and hunger are worsening, and there is an urgent need for humanitarian aid. mugabe must step down. it's the only chance for the people of zimbabwe. now the outside world has to go hard against hard. so far, all efforts have failed, but the sanctions must be intensified. the entire international community must be crystal clear in its condemnation of mugabe's regime and tell him that his patience is running out. no contacts, no exchanges, no sporting events and a renewal and tightening of sanctions is what we are demanding. we must seek a broad coalition, including the sadc countries, to take action and put pressure on the regime. south africa's so-called 'silent diplomacy' has proved to be completely ineffective, but south africa must still be persuaded to use its contacts to put pressure on mugabe. at the same time, we in the eu must support the opposition. there are a few very brave people who, at the risk of their lives, and sometimes even losing their lives, are trying to fight for democracy and human dignity in this country. i hope that the commission can guarantee that the eu will continue to support these brave people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the liberal group, of course, strongly condemns the murder of the irishman, monsignor courtney, and demands that the authorities immediately carry out a full investigation to find out who murdered him. those responsible must be held to account and punished. of course, the important work that courtney did for peace must not die with him, but must live on. we also extend our condolences to his family and to the relatives and the irish people. perhaps this could be the basis for the irish presidency to step up its efforts to support the peace process in burundi. it's unclear who killed courtney. the rebel movement fnl has denied any involvement, but does not support the peace process either. we would, however, like to call on them to lay down their arms and support the peace process, and we would also like to express our pleasure that they have actually agreed to meet and talk with the president of burundi. perhaps this will eventually lead to support for the peace process and negotiations. burundi is a tragic country in every sense, with widespread humanitarian and social misery, a lot of violence, especially against women, and widespread abuses that violate human rights. the peace process is very fragile. many people are guilty of extremely serious war crimes. we strongly oppose any tendency to grant any kind of general impunity to these people. instead, burundi should implement the decisions of the arusha agreement and ratify the statute of the international criminal court (icc). the wounds of burundi, where 300,000 or more people were murdered, will never heal unless justice is done and the murderers are held to account. people must be given the opportunity to move forward and the process of national reconciliation must continue. we support the establishment of a un-led peacekeeping operation and hope that the eu can be of any help in supporting the peace process. we have high hopes for the donor conference later this year.
mr president, i would like to thank you. last year will not go down in history as the eu's most successful year. this is worrying, not only in view of the turnout in the forthcoming parliamentary elections, but also because confidence in the european project as a whole is in danger of being eroded. that is why 2004 must be a very successful year and it has potential with the historic enlargement, the unification of europe, which lies ahead of us. it is interesting to note that the norwegian social democrat politician thorbjørn jagland has nominated the eu for the nobel peace prize a norwegian, i ask you to note. for this enlarged europe to work, whether we win the nobel prize or not, there must be clear rules, order and discipline, and therefore a constitution must be adopted. it is reasonable that citizens should also take a stand on such a constitution in the context of the parliamentary elections. it is not acceptable that some countries do not want to adopt these rules but want to go ahead on their own. mr president-in-office, you can feel the goodwill that is flowing to you in this chamber. if it were up to you and us, we would have this constitution as soon as possible. i hope you can use all your diplomatic skills to convince your friends in the council of the same.
the rapporteur's alternate. mr president, i would like to thank you. the european union is delivering. the efficiency of the codecision procedure makes a substantial contribution here. the citizens' demands for more growth, more jobs and development are being met. the public procurement conciliation which we are now debating is an expression of this. modernising and opening up europe's public procurement market is necessary to increase europe's competitiveness. the public procurement directive stipulates full competition between tenderers. full transparency and equal treatment are guaranteed. this benefits both europe's taxpayers, who get better value for their money, and the countless companies that now have the opportunity to compete for contracts across the union. from the parliament's point of view, the settlement was a success. few of us had previously thought that the final result would be so close to our starting position. the administration of the procurement will be considerably simplified. the directive will be simpler and clearer than its predecessors. the user-friendliness is enhanced not least by the electronic trading platforms being established, which simplifies for smes with limited administrative resources. the dialogue between contracting authorities and suppliers is improved and incorporated into the directive. our aim was to increase competitiveness, strengthen equal treatment and improve our tools against organised crime and corruption. it was necessary to increase transparency, not least in terms of who was awarded a contract and why. it was these issues and the possibility of including social and environmental considerations that forced the settlement. the directive prevents the arbitrary or unbalanced consideration of social and environmental aspects, but such considerations can nevertheless be taken into account. the court of justice's jurisdiction has helped us to achieve balance, its case law has been implemented and this provides legal certainty in this area. for this encouraging result i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr stefano zappalà, but also the shadow rapporteur, mrs maria berger, who has made a great effort, the whole of parliament's delegation, but also the two commissioners present today, who have really not been sitting on the sidelines, to put it simply by swedish standards, but have really made a great tangible contribution. i would even like to thank the presidency, which dealt with this matter and with whom we negotiated, which is unusual for this parliament. without all these efforts, this step would have been impossible. we could not have come this far if there had not been a concrete political will on the part of all parties to deliver for europe in this area. that is why we were able to reach an agreement despite some rather difficult political differences at the outset. we expect this step to contribute to a more intensive european trade exchange with the resulting prosperity gains for the union, for our citizens and for our european populations. thank you to everyone who contributed!
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have worked long on these important procurement directives and it is now time for a final debate and a vote on the outcome of the conciliation. i would like to take this opportunity to give a brief overview. the commission's original proposal was, from a green point of view, totally unacceptable in terms of environmental and social criteria for public procurement. however, i was very optimistic about the procurement directives after a majority in the european parliament, both at first and second reading, strongly supported the proposal to give contracting authorities greater freedom and legal rights to take account of and incorporate environmental and social criteria in public procurement. unfortunately, i felt from the very beginning that the commission did not really want to acknowledge the fact that it is clear from articles 2 and 6 of the treaty, as well as from the sixth environmental action programme and other policy documents, that environmental and social considerations must be integrated into all eu policies and that public procurement must be used to achieve the goal of sustainable development. the result of the compromise is clearly better than the commission's original proposal and the old rules, but unfortunately i think we have missed a unique opportunity to be as progressive as the promises and the talk of sustainable development would require. i think the council has shown greater willingness and flexibility, for example by raising the threshold. however, i believe that the conciliation process failed to resolve the important question of whether public procurement worth 14% of gdp could really be a difference in eu environmental policy and promote 'green' procurement. i thank my colleagues who fought hard for this during the conciliation negotiations. the so-called environmental characteristics criteria are among the criteria which, according to the agreed text, may be set by the contracting entity. however, this term does not include the production methods for the production of a good, nor the life cycle perspective, i.e. the period from the production of the good to waste, nor the long-term effects or internationalisation of the external costs. what is meant by environmental criteria? is it not true that there will be a debate on the interpretation of what this means and, with it, legal uncertainty? i think we have missed a brilliant opportunity to promote sustainable development and an improved quality of life for this and future generations. this was also the reason why the representatives of the greens/efa group voted against the final vote of the conciliation committee. i think that many of the members of the verts/ale group will vote in favour of the proposal - at least i will. despite this criticism, i naturally hope that the legislative package will promote open and free procurement and also ultimately promote environmental and social considerations in this context.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased to see that we are finally getting a comprehensive set of rules within the union on public procurement. i am naturally particularly pleased that this framework allows the contracting authority to use criteria other than price. i think it is important that we use public procurement to also influence social developments. we shall favour products and producers who act in a social direction which we advocate. environmental issues are central. if we want to reduce pollution in food and the external environment, we must favour producers who are willing to do so. if we want equality in working life, we must favour workplaces that have that focus. if we want all people to have the opportunity to work and to be self-supporting, we must of course favour companies which create jobs for people with disabilities. if we want to create a society that provides greater opportunities for participation and justice, we must ensure that society is designed in such a way. it is worth asking whether we could have gone further in the conciliation process. this is a question that you always ask yourself as a negotiator. having spent most of my adult life negotiating, i know that in negotiation, you have to reach a point where the parties agree. when you have reached that point, as i think we did in the negotiations, you have to say that you are ready to present your results. i think the result we have presented in our decision is something we can stand up for and actually be proud of. parliament's position on public procurement shows that decisions at community level can be important in achieving a more humane society. it is a positive decision after a long and sometimes arduous work. i want to thank everyone who has contributed to this result.
mr president, i would like to thank you. like the eldr group, we think that the rapporteur has done an excellent job in his report. it is a very critical report which points out the sensitive points in the area of procurement and fraud in travel allowances. we share the eldr group's conclusion that there should be no discharge. the criticism is too serious. as in the history of eurostat, we have been brought to these problems by a so-called whistle blower. if the committee of the regions' financial controller had not contacted us, we would never have discovered how bad the situation was. it is only to be thankful that there are eu officials willing to take the risks involved in exposing the inaccuracies that exist. these allegations are also well confirmed in the olaf report. if we were to grant a discharge, we would also grant it to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions. we mean it's not possible. it is the secretary-general against whom olaf considers that disciplinary proceedings should be initiated. it doesn't add up. we will vote against the discharge for the committee of the regions. we believe that there are too many unresolved issues and that we should be even more willing to find better procedures in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we know much more about what was happening in eurostat than we did when the discharge decision was taken for 2001. it is quite possible that that decision would have been different if we had had today's knowledge. there is no doubt that what happened that year was a serious breach of the financial regulation: secret accounts, embezzlement and obvious conflicts of interest. the casaca report is not bad. it's critical, but we're not quite there yet. we think it is reasonable that the commissioner responsible for eurostat should have taken the political consequences and resigned. in many ways this scandal is similar to the scandals that led to the resignation of the santer commission. there has been a systematic and organised misuse of union funds and no timely action has been taken. pedro solbes mira says that he was not informed until april 2003, but we all know that there had been many warning signs before that, both in audit reports, in the press and from parliament. when romani prodi began his term of office, he was very clear about political responsibility. the commissioners were responsible for what happened in their directorates-general. this proud slogan, which was raised at the beginning of the period, has proved to be of little substance in the case of the eurostat deal.
(sv) arvoisa puhemies, after the second world war there was a great hope that the global order could guarantee lasting peace for all europeans and give all people freedom and democracy. these two institutions, however, have been dissolved, but their veto rights are still used to block the un's activities. the principle of the rule of law is also fully respected in many member states. after the soviet union collapsed and the soviet union and the european communist dictatorship collapsed, the un's ability to achieve its goals was clearly compromised. despite this, the un has not particularly been successful in respecting the human rights and freedoms enshrined in the un charter. in this matter the un has been too passive. i believe that the un should be able to have its members respect the principles of human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, and that citizens should be able to benefit from the work of the un. many were disappointed to find that even the representatives of the dictatorship were acting as chairmen of the un commission on human rights. in some countries it is only natural that citizens also take part in such organisations, for example amnesty international. the un should be able to support citizens in their current activities, thus strengthening the un as a global organisation. the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy has approved the proposal that any country which has seriously and systematically violated human rights and freedoms may be referred to the un commission on human rights. the commission is considering taking steps in this direction and is endeavouring to increase public confidence in the un in this field.
(sv) arvoisa puhemies, haluan vilpligteknütää jäsen laschetia hyvin laaditusta ja tärkeästä mietinnöstä, joka on poliittisesti hyvin tasapainoinen ja tulevaisuuteen suuntautuva. (sv) i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their work on the report, which is very important and which is very important for the future of the european union. i'm not sure. the first concerns the european people's party (christian democracy) and the european democratic group and the signatories to the treaty of amsterdam. the european socialist group also supported the report. the european parliament "considered that the common foreign and security policy relating to the un should not undermine the importance of the participation and involvement of all member states of the union". if we have a common foreign and security policy, it cannot be only the great powers, germany, france and perhaps also the united kingdom, that are involved. all member states shall be known as participating in the foreign and security policy. the member states concerned may not be required to take action in the event of the situation arising from the implementation of a major state security policy on the basis of the criteria set out in the treaty. the eu's external security policy as regards paragraph 19 of the second report, i would like to stress the importance of systematically postponing human rights violations until the human rights violations are brought to an end. this is a very important issue for the un. kolma's position, which i want to corroborate, concerns the un security council. the eu should take advantage of the existing mechanisms set up by the eu member states, the united kingdom and france, on the new security council. for this reason, the eu is currently represented on 40% of the un security council seats. i would like to inform the members of the commission that the following amendments have been tabled, which also concern the ppe-de group and the pse group. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of employment, vocational training and youth.
in writing. - (sv) we are opposed to so-called binding international agreements which are intended to regulate the activities of companies. we cannot support the report on this point. instead, we recommend that companies work under voluntary codes of conduct which are designed in a responsible way.
in writing. - (sv) we voted in favour of the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1734/94 on financial and technical cooperation with the occupied territories (west bank and gaza), but we believe that a thorough follow-up should be carried out in order to make it clear that the eu funds allocated are not used for other purposes than those for which they are intended, for example, for unsatisfactory propaganda activities.
in the case of the so-called eurostat case, we believe that the commission needs to reform its control and monitoring of the activities of the european authorities. we believe, however, that calls for the resignation of commissioner solbes are far too far-reaching and not very constructive. the commission has acknowledged that mistakes have been made and we believe it is now up to the commission, together with the other institutions, to find models for a more efficient and transparent system of internal control. if the commission does not present a better system, there may be a discussion about not granting discharge for 2002.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted for amendments nos 13 to 17 and therefore went against the ppe-de group. the reason for this is that these amendments are a sharp criticism of the serious irregularities in eurostat. i also voted for amendment no 21, which regrets that commissioner pedro solbes mira - the commissioner directly responsible for the administration of eurostat - did not react earlier to the abuses and did not assume political responsibility. i also supported amendment no 1, which states that the commission's accountability must be strengthened in future if the commissioners accept that they have individual political responsibility for their departments. the report as such was constructive, however, and i therefore voted in favour of it in the final vote. the report was also adopted by 467 votes in favour, 11 against and nine abstentions.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european space policy is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear weapons. however, we would stress that the eu's commitment to space policy should build on the 2003 agreement between the eu and the european space agency (esa) and be limited to the current eu competence in the field of space research. we reject the increased competence of the european union, which is to be incorporated in the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. european industrial cooperation in the field of space should be mainly carried out at intergovernmental level in accordance with the convention on the european space agency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is about a hundred years since the labor movement in europe demanded legal working hours. eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure, eight hours of sleep were required at that time. eventually, that program was implemented. this was important in many ways, because it meant that companies were not competing with work hours. you had to compete in other areas instead. it also meant protecting workers and giving society a fixed framework for work, schooling, leisure and other activities. i am really shocked that the ppe-de group and several other political groups seem to want to break with this tradition and instead go back to the situation that existed a hundred years ago, when there was voluntary participation in the labour market. i note that there is no mention of voluntary agreements between trade unions and employers' organizations. instead, it is a matter of voluntary agreements between individual workers and individual employers. it's a regression that is incomprehensible. i do not understand how one can argue that way or suggest such a thing. it is deeply irresponsible and will lead to strife and conflict in the labour markets. it will result in people in such a competitive labour market being forced to take jobs on the terms that apply. you can call it voluntary or involuntary, but in a competitive labour market you have to assume that you have the market value you have. you take what you're given. that's the thing about volunteering. this affects family life too, as many have said. parents are forced to work at times that make it difficult to balance work and family life and to take children into account. i would also add that it affects all of us as consumers. it has not been emphasized much, but we risk injury when we are operated on by exhausted surgeons, we can be run over by half-asleep truck drivers, and so on. we're all victims of work-hunting and stress. it is much better for all parties if we can agree to stop these derogations which the united kingdom got when the directive was adopted. they were in fact in breach of the rule of equal competition. now employers in other countries are saying 'if the uk can have an exemption, we want an exemption too'. this is the exception that becomes the rule and we cannot live with that. so we have to stop and go the other way. we must remove the uk's exemption and find other ways of solving these flexibility problems. we cannot do without a general labour law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good report. sometimes when i listen to the speeches i get the feeling that the health and safety aspects for the individual are not the main point, which they really are for legislation. i am frankly frightened when i hear the british representatives of the ppe-de group and the eldr group. they say that, given that some jobs have such low wages, we must let the wage earners work more to compensate for these low wages. what is it but the model found in the united states, where one sometimes needs two or three jobs to provide for one's family at all? is this what we have agreed in the lisbon process? we must have competitiveness and growth, but we must also have high social standards and the possibility of reconciling family life and work. these principles, which we have spoken about, are completely contrary to that kind of flexibility. the problem is that the exception has become the rule in the united kingdom. it is never meant that an exception should become the rule, but there it has become so. if the derogation is extended, there is a risk that member states will compete with longer working hours to attract production. is this the kind of europe we want, where we compete socially? no, i do not want such a europe. however, i think we should have flexibility, as thorning-schmidt said. however, i do not see the individual exemption as an option. consider the dependence of the individual employee on the company in negotiating pay and hours. it's not voluntary, even if you say it is. it is much better to use the social partners. there are differences between sectors and sometimes special arrangements may be needed for certain sectors to achieve flexibility while maintaining the principles of health and safety. i therefore advocate collective bargaining, where this flexibility can be achieved. i am not in favour of renationalisation, because it has the same effect. it would mean that countries would compete with each other by attracting capital because health and safety are not priorities. we want our european model to stimulate competitiveness, but at the same time to have high social objectives and the possibility of reconciling work and parenting. let's live up to that model. we must then remove the individual exemption, while maintaining flexibility and a high level of security.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me first say that the report is good and gives a correct description of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. the work of the three committees has been better structured, improving the preparation for the plenary. question time has also improved. it can of course be further improved if the answers to the questions reach the members in good time, so that the commission does not just read out the answers but gives room for debate. i myself would like to emphasize the good cooperation between the acp-eu assembly and the un, both in relation to child soldiers and the vulnerability of children in war and in the debate on the international criminal court. these are two major and important political issues of the very nature of the work of our assembly. it is a question of finding good forms of cooperation in which both sides learn from each other and support the policies we consider important on the international scene. the united states has withdrawn its financial support from those countries which do not support the united states' demand that all americans be generally exempt from prosecution before the international criminal court for serious war crimes. this measure can and must be met politically and economically by the acp-eu, not least by the eu. it is gratifying to note that of the latin american and west indian countries, only belize has fallen short of the united states' action, and of the african countries, only nigeria has. the nigerian president ratified a treaty with the united states in violation of the nigerian constitution and the nigerian parliament. it is gratifying to note that most other countries have resisted the pressure from the united states. the acp-eu assembly plays an important political and economic role in major key issues on the international stage.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the commission's communication on the reform of state-owned enterprises in developing countries. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. the high standard of living and prosperity achieved by the west, japan and australia are not the result of monopoly and protectionism but the result of the many developmental and welfare-promoting drivers of the free market economy and free enterprise. in europe this fact has been particularly evident. half our continent has tried a different approach, with central government and large state monopolies. the inefficiency and collapse of monopoly socialism in europe is an experience and a bitter lesson for many european peoples. this is a lesson that we not only should, but also have an obligation to pass on to countries that want to build a democratic welfare society. developing countries must have the same opportunity to develop and create an economic model of free competition and open market economies. it is not the eu's job to try to prevent progress towards prosperous competition. it is not too much market economy that has been the big problem in the developing world. on the contrary, the problem is too little free enterprise and too many monopolies, which have led to mismanagement, corruption and stagnation. i fully share the view that people need clean water, functioning sanitation, basic health care, basic education and access to energy. however, it is not the ownership itself that is important but a high degree of flexibility and efficiency in the provision of these services. competition is of great importance there. the developing countries obviously need a legal framework, and perhaps this is one area where the eu can be of great help to the developing countries. unfortunately, current policy solutions in many developing countries are often ineffective and expensive, reaching only a limited portion of the population. the developing countries that have succeeded in moving from poverty to prosperity and wealth have all prioritized competition and efficiency, not monopoly building and central government.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank georges garot for his valuable contribution to the debate on farmers' incomes. garot is a committed agricultural politician who is knowledgeable and has a positive view of agriculture. i have to say, as a swede, i'm a little jealous. we could have had some of these social democrats in the swedish government; that would have been very useful to us. let me raise a few points which i think are important. garot states that farming must be carried out throughout the union, throughout the territory. it is very important to remember this, especially in the parts of the union where i come from, for example, sweden or finland. he also raises another very important point, namely the difference between cost trends and price trends. there is a gap that can be filled by rationalizations, but not by any means. we must ensure that this gap does not become too large. we have seen the gap grow in my country since joining the eu. it's too big now, and production is falling. we have put forward the agricultural reform; it has been decided. however, it is not good to implement it at different rates in different countries. this is important, as the report also points out. the different pace of implementation of the agricultural reform risks further altering competitiveness or rendering competition neutral in the different countries. it is now of the utmost urgency to introduce rural development and environmental aid as far as possible. there is a risk, as garot says in his report, that this could be adversely affected when the member states are to co-finance. there i feel a worry. however, i must mention some points in this report which i do not think are so good. it's a little reform-negative, if i may say so. the aim is to keep as many people as possible in agriculture. i don't think that's realistic in the long run. i do not think it is realistic to have a far-reaching regulation of the market or politically determined prices, nor a regulated supply of the kind we have with quotas. we must strive to reduce border protection to deal with world trade. as we are now doing this decoupling, it would be best if we could do it completely from the beginning and actually in the whole union at one time. these things will make me and many in the eldr group regrettably vote against. we cannot vote yes to this report, but given all the advantages i mentioned at the beginning, we cannot vote no either. we will probably abstain in the final vote, since it is only one vote.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the spread of the disease. with free movement within the union and rapid transmission across borders, a european centre can quickly help mitigate and limit the effects and spread of disease outbreaks. we believe that it is inappropriate to extend the centre's powers to general public health issues. we believe that the commission's proposal is better in some important respects than the european parliament's proposal, which is why we have chosen to support the commission's proposal.
in the final vote i voted in favour of the report, since all the christian-democratic proposals from the ppe-de group were adopted in plenary and have thus considerably improved their content. the fight against poverty is the highest objective of eu development policy. history shows that state monopolies often give rise to economic inefficiency, poor management, corruption and injustice in developing countries. in the case of public services, such as water and energy supply, education and health, the public sector has failed in the majority of these countries. reforms in this sector can thus contribute to improvements and growth. the report makes this clear in a number of amendments tabled by us in the ppe-de group. the report is therefore in line with the commission's assessment that the fight against poverty can only be taken seriously by monitoring objectively all the reform options with a view to boosting economic growth and combating corruption. both public and private monopolies must be replaced by competition and diversity in order to achieve greater equity and better economic governance. clear legal frameworks must guarantee the right to public services. small businesses can be an important factor in the growth of developing countries and should therefore be supported financially and through technical assistance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr garot very warmly for a good report which gives a very good picture of the agricultural economy today. the economy of agriculture is a very important issue for the development of a vibrant rural area. a vibrant rural area depends entirely on the existence of profitable agricultural holdings. in a europe where 50% of farmers are over the age of 55 and only 8% under the age of 35, a whole new approach to agricultural entrepreneurship is needed. if i were asked today, my advice to a person with a new farm would be to do his financial calculation without the money of society, not to rely on the goodwill of the politicians. there are some points in the report which i cannot support. among other things, it is intended to 'guarantee a reasonable standard of living and stable incomes for the agricultural population in order to maintain agricultural activities throughout the territory of the eu'. another point stresses the importance of maintaining the level of public support for agriculture and the importance of creating conditions that guarantee employment, etc. if you read these sentences to today's farmers, they would not be comfortable with the wording. in a country like sweden, these words do not correspond to reality. only 0.5 percent of the population are farmers today. the restructuring is proceeding at an unprecedented pace. the mid-term review has brought everything to a standstill, except the decommissioning of farms. of course, this cannot be blamed solely on the european community. the swedish government is among those who are most in debt.
mr president, i would like to thank you. although i am not on the committee on fisheries, i have dared to intervene from time to time in this debate on fisheries. i'm doing that today, too. i do so because i am so desperate that we will not be able to put in place a strict recovery plan, not only for kummel but also for other species such as cod and other endangered white fish. this plan for spawning in northern stocks was adopted in december and the objective was clear: to protect stocks and to achieve an acceptable level of safety. the truth is that the council and the commission have jointly weakened the original proposal to the point where it no longer meets this objective. i think the proposal now before the committee on fisheries is very bad. i cannot vote for it, because it further weakens an already weak proposal. the absolute minimum would be to stick to the commission's original proposal, since stricter controls are needed. economic and social problems, to which we always refer, are also important, but if we do not apply the precautionary principle to biomass and fish stocks, we simply cannot continue fishing. we should realize that. we have now rejected four or five recovery plans from the commission. it is simply to realise that there is no political will in this house or in the council to adopt measures which really take account of the precautionary principle and ensure that we have a fishery in the future. i am very concerned about what this will lead to. i wish more people would follow my lead when we vote on this, because now i am getting very impatient and very worried.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to raise a few issues which i think are related to the drugs issue. the first concerns the lisbon strategy. how does the commissioner see the increase in drug use and drug abuse in the union, in the light of the fact that by 2010 the eu will have the strongest economy in the world, with the highest growth and with an ecologically sustainable economy? is it good for the job market that more people are using drugs? i would also like to ask a follow-up question on the proposed european border force. what is its role in drug seizures?
commission. on 13 december, the representatives of the member states, meeting at head of state or government level, decided by common agreement on the seat of certain offices and agencies of the european union and, in that context, a decision was taken that the 'european network and information security agency (enisa) shall have its seat in greece, in a location to be determined by the greek government.' due to its specific nature, the commission considers that the agency’s basic requirements include advanced and highly secure information technology equipment, support and operations, sufficiently protected against hacking and security attacks, of which it will certainly be a target. this includes the equipment underpinning normal office tasks, as well as the agency's intranet and databases used to store data necessary to the work of the agency, or database-driven applications and networks required for interaction with any national administrations. furthermore, making information available both to the general public, as well as to the specialised audiences will require a properly designed, hosted, operated and protected website. the very recent malicious code attacks have yet again proven the need for increased coordination between member states to achieve higher levels of security. the commission is convinced that the setting-up of enisa, with its own legal personality, is the most efficient way to achieve this objective. it favours trust and consequently the direct involvement of industry in its work. this involvement is seen as crucial to solving the information security problems in europe. i am pleased to assure you that the commission is committed to launching enisa’s operational activities as soon as possible. concerning the honourable member’s questions on the composition and participation of the management board, the commission, in line with its communication of december 2002 on the operating framework for the european regulatory agencies, generally favours a small-scale management board. i made this clear in a statement during the council on 20 november 2003. however, because of the specific tasks assigned to enisa and the pressing need for its establishment, the commission has not stood in the way of a first-reading agreement between the legislators. the commission has nevertheless pointed out the exceptional nature of the course taken and reaffirms its eagerness to see the general framework applied.
thank you very much, commissioner liikanen, for a very excellent answer! anyone who has followed this case and heard the demands we have made on the it authority may find it difficult to see that those demands directly pointed to crete. we are concerned that it may become an inefficient authority. that is why we in parliament will naturally press for this. we are fully convinced that the commission can also help us to minimise the damage in this area, which i do not consider to be ideal. unfortunately, the council defends incomprehensible positions, such as that such decisions should be taken without transparency. it is, frankly, incomprehensible, given the transparency legislation we have in place. i shall end by asking a question, not because i cannot figure out what the commissioner thinks, but because i want a clear answer, which i intend to use in the election campaign against the governments. could the it authority be more efficient with a smaller board, perhaps with a system of rotation? how important is it that the institutions use tax money effectively and restrictively, and how do we achieve this?
thank you very much, mr liikanen, for a very excellent and very interesting answer. we see a lot of activity in this area. in the future eu, that is to say, an eu of 25 member states, more than 50 000 people will die on the roads every year. that's the equivalent of a medium-sized swedish city that would be surveyed every year. we can't have it like this. we have high hopes for the it technology and the esafety programme. there is very important work going on, and it seems to be progressing. i also hope that parliament will give its opinion on the report mentioned by mr liikanen. industry is well advanced, but the eu countries have very different levels of it maturity. such applications require installations both in cars and in the environment. i would like to hear commissioner liikanen's assessment of the progress in the various member states and also in the acceding countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the npt is not just a non-proliferation treaty. it is also the only binding international treaty on nuclear disarmament. nonnuclear powers pledge not to acquire nuclear weapons, and nuclear powers pledge to eliminate theirs. this is reflected in article 6 of the agreement, which commits the parties to serious negotiations for the elimination of all nuclear weapons. this pledge has been signed by all the nuclear powers. at the last five-year summit, the nuclear-weapon states pledged to completely eliminate their nuclear arsenals. in particular, a 13-point action programme for the total denuclearisation of nuclear weapons was adopted unanimously. what the eu must do at the next meeting is, of course, to demand that these commitments be implemented. ireland has long played an active role in the work on nuclear disarmament, including with my own country, sweden. will the council then demand that these commitments be implemented? true, the nuclear powers have reduced their strategic nuclear arsenals. instead, the united states has developed so-called mini-nuclear weapons, designed to be used directly in war, and nuclear weapons that penetrate deep mountains, so-called bunker buster weapons. this is clearly in breach of article 6 of the npt. moreover, the united states has revised its nuclear policy to allow the use of its nuclear weapons, not only in war but also for so-called preventive purposes. this constitutes a serious violation of international law. preventive warfare is a violation of the un charter and a return to the right of the strong to intervene for their own ends, which existed before the united nations was created. it is of course important that the european parliament in its resolution calls on the parties to the npt to live up to their commitments. they must embark on a serious nuclear disarmament and stop any development of new nuclear weapons. how will the commission and the council pursue these demands at the next npt meeting?
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea is a very good one. the proposal is based on a report by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices). however, parliament does not want to go so far as to consider the problems less serious. the real message of the amendment from parliament is that the commission is exaggerating the problem of overfishing and that a recovery plan is not necessary. the undersigned chose to vote against the parliament's amendments, as the original commission proposal places greater emphasis on this, taking the problems seriously. in addition, the continued survival of fish stocks is given priority over the socioeconomic effects that any restrictions may have in the worst case.
the european parliament has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the british exception in this area has unfortunately increasingly become almost the rule, with 33% of workers in the uk having signed an agreement to work more than 48 hours a week. this situation is now tending to spread to several countries, posing a risk to workers' health and undermining safety at work. we christian democrats will not support such a development. it is therefore crucial that i voted in favour of the new wording of paragraph 12, two parts of which were adopted by 275 votes to 229 (nine abstentions) and 335 to 155 (twenty-one abstentions). this means that the time limit for the uk derogation must now be phased out. amendment no 28 means that a long-term solution to the problem of doctors' duty shifts must be addressed before the next consultation phase, which i support, as otherwise it would lead to a demand for some 3,000 new doctors in sweden and an unsustainable funding situation for the landstinget.
- the next item is the statement by the council on the eu's position on the international court of justice hearing on the israeli wall.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i want to be a little personal in this debate because i think that whatever we say here can be perceived as offensive on either side. we can make speeches here in the european parliament that are most likely to satisfy our own constituency back home in britain or in france or, as in my case, in sweden. what contribution are we prepared to make as the european union and the european parliament to the middle east question and to a peaceful future and coexistence between israelis and palestinians? two and a half years ago, i visited nicosia and witnessed the division of that city. i went to belfast when i was 25 and i have seen how that city is divided and how, in recent times, barriers and barriers have been built between the unionists and the republicans, the two groups of the population. in ceuta, spain, in north africa, there is barbed wire to separate the spanish city of ceuta from morocco. the united states has built a barrier between itself and mexico. an electronic border is almost complete between zimbabwe and botswana. am i telling you this to somehow excuse what is happening in the middle east? no, not in any way, but to show that this is found in many other places. in 2000, israel built a un-approved security border with lebanon with electronic and other surveillance using sensors. this was applauded by the european union and by russia, and this was seen as a wise way for israel to unilaterally withdraw its troops from lebanese soil by the year 2000. i hope and believe that the wall and the barrier that has been built is an interim solution or measure. i hope and hope that this is not something permanent, and i hope and believe that the peace talks will be able to resume. i'd like to believe both sides, if possible. the fact that the israeli public has pushed for the construction of this barrier is of course linked to the large number of suicide attacks that have hit the israeli public. 120 suicide bombers have caused nearly 900 deaths and we can speak of up to 6,000 injured israelis. let us, as good europeans, and also as good swedes, try to see this question from both sides. let us hope that we can reach a peaceful solution in the middle east.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the irish presidency for its reply and also warmly welcome ireland as the new presidency of the european union. the eu can do much more in the field of human rights than the governments of individual member states, such as ireland or sweden. that is why i am pleased with your commitment to human rights in eritrea. i understand from the irish presidency's reply that no new information has emerged. i would appeal to you, before the presidency ends at the beginning of the summer, to spare no effort to find out more about the swedish-eritrean journalist dawit isaacs. we have a legitimate and growing deep concern about his fate and that he may no longer be alive. i appeal to you to do everything you can to bring dawit isaacs back to sweden alive.
the european parliament has previously stated that it regards the turkish presence in northern cyprus as an occupation. the european community was born as a peace project, and our will is to preserve the legacy of de gasperi, schuman, monet and adenauer. in view of this, is it in line with the eu's peace thinking and the legacy of our fathers to give turkey a start date for negotiations on membership of the european union while turkey continues to be an occupying power in northern cyprus? in other words, can you occupy another member state of the european union and at the same time be offered talks about membership?
- the next item is the report (a5-0035/2004) by mr brie, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on afghanistan: challenges and prospects for the future (2003/2121 (ini)).
madam president, i would like to thank you. the isaf troops and many other aid agencies are doing a great deal of good in afghanistan. however, that work is being sabotaged by the presence of american forces. last year i had the opportunity to visit the us headquarters in bagram with an eu delegation. it became clear that the americans have no plans whatsoever for women's rights, for democracy or for the fight against drugs. they are interested, they say, in any government in afghanistan recognizing the right of u.s. troops to return if they ever leave the country. it's pretty revealing for what it's about. when we were in bagram, there was one thing we weren't allowed to see. an american journalist told us that the prison in bagram makes stories from guantanamo look like the sunday school stories. she had learned that, at any rate, there were several hundred prisoners in bagram prison at the time. they're being tortured. they are not beaten, but they are forced to stand naked for hours, day in and day out, under constant interrogation. eventually, two prisoners died, and she got an honest american doctor to write clearly on the death certificate that the cause of death was murder. it took months before the new york times dared to publish this article. so sensitive is the recognition that the american soldiers in afghanistan, as in many other places, are gangsters who defend american interests by all means, but who completely ignore the local population. let's get rid of the americans and replace them with sensible people from isaf and aid organizations. there are so many others who can make constructive contributions. the americans are only making it worse.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andré brie, for a very well-written and keen description of the situation in afghanistan and what we are going to do to improve it. i have four points to make to parliament and to commissioner patten. the first is narcotics. as the international community works to combat drug abuse, afghanistan's illicit opium production is adversely affecting the willingness of individual governments in the world to contribute financially to the reconstruction of the country. according to a study by the united nations office on drugs and crime, in 2003 afghanistan accounted for three quarters, or 75 percent, of the world's total production of illicit opium. this is deeply disturbing to say the least. the second point concerns the situation of women. the anti-democratic and islamist taliban regime, when in power, committed the most deliberate violation of women's rights in modern times. the regime imposed a gender apartheid that totally denied women's identity. the taliban regime is now gone, but the view of women in afghanistan is still very much there. the authorities of the country, the international community and the eu must therefore do everything possible to change this view. the third point concerns religious freedom. the first constitution of afghanistan since the fall of the taliban dictatorship raises concerns about certain formulations concerning the dominant role of islamic law, restrictions on certain human rights and individual freedoms and restrictions on women's rights. the last point concerns education. we in the european parliament are calling for an open education system as an alternative to the madrassas, the koran schools, which act as strongholds for muslim extremism and the culture of hatred and where taliban militants are recruited.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can tolerate a little bit of commissioner patten listening to one speech after another without being able to comment after a few speakers. perhaps the kind of debates, or rather monologues, that we have in the european parliament could be made a little more lively. as one of the last speakers, i hope the commissioner can still listen to one more speaker. i would like to refer to two points made by the commissioner for external relations in his speech. the first thing he stressed was that we must improve relations between europe and the islamic world. we must develop more stable, secure and pluralistic countries in the middle east and around the mediterranean. the other commissioner said that the links between our financial support and the behaviour at what he called the grassroots level, i.e. the situation in the cities, in the communities, in the villages, with regard to the respect of human rights. i want to talk about a subject that is almost politically taboo. it's about the interplay of religion and politics. as the commissioner said, our relations with the islamic world are a very sensitive area, both within the european union and in our various member states. i believe that the importance of religion and religious freedom is fundamental to the development of human rights and, above all, to democracy. of course, religion is not to take over the political system, but neither can religious life be kept completely separate from the rest of society. i think that the kind of solutions that exist in some countries, for example in iran, where an islamist watchdog council decides who can stand in elections and who cannot, are completely unreasonable. i am not convinced either that the french or turkish solution, which would prohibit religious symbols in schools, is the right one. i would therefore like to add to what commissioner patten has said about our relations with the islamic world and about the report by bob van den bos on human rights which parliament adopted in july 2003. a number of amendments were passed that emphasized the right of every person to pursue his own faith, the right to change religion, and the right to renounce religious affiliation. further, the value of free missionary activity was emphasized regardless of whether the country is predominantly christian, muslim, or jewish. the underlying principles are the equal value of human beings irrespective of religion, gender or ethnicity, the principle of non-discrimination and the principle that religion stands for non-violence, for love and for reconciliation. the equal value of all people, regardless of their religious affiliation, is emphasized. i believe that the debate on the role of religion in the good of society and the fight against the abuse of religion, where religion is used for threats, violence and oppression and to justify terrorism and discrimination against people, is an important and fundamental part of our relations with the islamic mediterranean countries. let religious dialogue and the good use of religion in the right sense be an important part of our relations with the countries around the mediterranean.
in writing. - (sv) we agree with the demand that the guantanamo prisoners should have a fair trial. that is why we voted in favour of this report. we do not think, however, that it is clear that the prisoners meet the criteria for being considered prisoners of war under the geneva convention. it is therefore not correct in the report to invoke the geneva convention rules on the treatment of captured soldiers as rights enjoyed by guantanamo prisoners.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the islamic guardian council functions as an unelected body of islamic theologians whose task it is to safeguard the legacy of the revolution of 25 years ago in accordance with islamic principles. the question is whether this guardian council is not instead discrediting religion itself, the role of priests and theologians in society and, in this case, the absolutely dominant religion, shiite islam. these are the consequences for the islamic revolution in iran of the actions of the guardian council, of the legislation that they have promoted and of other legislation that they have prevented. we europeans and members of the european union must affirm that if you have the right to vote, you have the right to stand for election. it is totally unacceptable that theologians should be able to prohibit people from both voting and running.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is interesting to hear this debate because this house is unusually unanimous in its description of the state of the european economy. in almost every speech we hear about the low growth rate, the falling investments, the rising unemployment, the outflow of capital and highly educated labour, etc. it is a very different tone from that which we heard three or four years ago when optimism was strong. i think that this problem must be taken very seriously. my own view is that a long-term growth policy would be needed, with emphasis on infrastructure, the environment, technological development, the development of human capital and things that many speakers have mentioned. the question is which conditions are the most important. i believe that the responsibility for this new policy must rest with the member states. my impression is that the eu does not have the political strength, the unity and the economic capacity to conduct such a policy and to lead europe out of this negative development. member states must make the growth package as national policy, which is based on large-scale public-private partnerships. in my country, sweden, the best periods of growth have generally been the result of national efforts in which public policy, together with industry, has succeeded in creating particularly favourable effects. i would like to stress the importance and significance of the active role of the public sector in such contexts, both because it is important for employment and because it consumes large parts of the resources.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i arrived in brussels this morning, i found that i had received a letter from the world wildlife fund. the letter said that i would soon receive my test results from the blood test i took a few months ago when we could test the chemicals in our blood. i guess a lot of us did this blood test. it is likely that this test will show that i, like everyone else, have a number of completely foreign chemicals in my blood and it is likely that some of them will also be such long-lived organic compounds as we are discussing today. in fact, we know relatively little about what this means for our health and well-being, but we know enough to be concerned. we've had a number of alarming reports about various chemicals causing disease, that they can affect our ability to have children, for example. in view of this, and in particular in view of the fact that the proposal is very welcome, not only the proposal but above all the compromise. in fact, this negotiated compromise is much better than the proposal put forward by the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr frahm, in particular for his work. i would also like to highlight some points which i consider to be crucial improvements. the first is the legal basis. i think it is a very unfortunate trend on the part of the commission to treat environmental issues more and more as internal market issues. from an ecological point of view, this is completely irresponsible. it also reduces the possibilities for member states to introduce more progressive legislation. the union is thus preventing countries which are willing and able to take the lead from doing so, and that is not acceptable. we hope that the commission will take this into account and stick to the legal basis for achieving environmental objectives when it comes to proposals on the environment that this is really about. i also think that the substance of the proposal, the clear prohibition of production, use and marketing, is very important. it is particularly welcome that the ban on hexachlorcyclohexane (hch) including lindane is included in the proposal. this is a reminder that eu chemicals policy is not working in practice we know that there is a very small fraction of the chemicals on the market that are actually tested and that we actually know the effects of. this covers a small part of chemicals policy and now we need a well-functioning, uniform chemicals legislation within the reach system for the registration, assessment and authorisation of chemicals. it is a proposal which is being attacked quite strongly today, but we need to know what these chemicals mean even when they are present in relatively moderate amounts, as is the case with many chemicals. if too many of these chemicals are excluded, we will be left without an effective chemicals policy. i think this work shows that it is possible to take the right decisions on chemicals. this will guide the way forward for the reach review. i would like to thank the rapporteur again.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs pernille frahm and perhaps a little bit of congratulations to ourselves who have participated in these negotiations with the council. we have managed to reach agreement with the irish presidency on this regulation and on the implementation of the stockholm convention on long-lived organic compounds. perhaps not many people thought we would reach an agreement, but pernille frahm has managed this in an extraordinary way. even if all that has been achieved is not ideal and exactly what we want, it is perhaps the best that could be achieved in terms of the political possibilities. i'm very happy. as others have said, it is important that the regulation is now implemented as soon as possible, because persistent organic pollutants are the worst when it comes to hazardous chemical substances. they don't break down, they accumulate in our bodies and throughout the food chain. levels are now so high that they are a threat to both human health and the functioning of ecosystems. the objective must be to eliminate the release of persistent organic pollutants by prohibiting their production, use and import. this means going further, and in some cases much further, than both the stockholm convention and the 1979 protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution. this must also apply to the new member states which will join the eu in may this year. in some cases, exemptions have been requested for, for example, hch and lindane and cannot be accepted under any circumstances. i am often very surprised that it is so difficult for the commission, for the council and perhaps sometimes even for the more conservative part of parliament to get things through which are intended to protect human health and the environment and that it is repeatedly delayed, delayed and stopped. the precautionary principle must be fully applied here, and this also means that new substances must be added to the list of substances prohibited and controlled. as regards the legal basis, i do not understand the commission, nor do i understand that there should be such a discussion. the legal basis must be article 175 of the ec treaty, since these decisions are taken to protect human health and the environment. the whole chemical legislation is aimed at this. this has also been discussed from chester onwards that it is because we cannot protect human health and the environment that we must make good decisions in terms of a comprehensive overall view of chemical legislation. in conclusion, i think that this agreement with the council and the fact that we are getting a first reading is very good, because it is so important that we implement this as soon as possible.
commission. mr president, those members of the house who read the financial times, or indeed the moscow times, will recognise that eu-russia cooperation is not always as straightforward as it could be. i have to say that i regret that deeply. why? because a stable and constructive relationship with russia is essential to the eu, and also because a stable and constructive relationship with the eu is essential to russia. it is clearly in our interest to try to promote close ties with an open, stable and democratic russia, acting, we hope, as a reliable partner which can uphold european values, continue reforms, implement commitments and, in cooperation with the eu, play a constructive role in the newly independent states. the communication which the commission adopted on 9 february, a communication which heavily influenced the report discussed by foreign ministers on monday of this week, took as its starting point the interdependence of the eu and russia and our wish to build a genuine strategic partnership, based on shared values and driven by our evident common interests. there are positive elements to the relationship, but, overall, we have to accept that the results of five years of increasingly intensive cooperation are not as positive as we expected. we have to do something about that. there were three important outcomes from the review of eu-russia relations discussed on monday. first, a strong, clear and public message was passed to russia that we expect the partnership and cooperation agreement to be extended to the ten acceding member states without pre-condition or distinction by 1 may. the commission has held intensive discussions with russia. we hope that we have been able to convince our interlocutors that the question of extending the pca must be rapidly settled. the eu, for its part, is ready, in parallel to the extension of the pca, to discuss any of russia's legitimate concerns over the impact of enlargement. i hope that our attempt to resolve this issue as rapidly as possible will not be affected by the formation of the new government of the russian federation, with which we will look forward to working in due course. second, the ministers confirmed the importance of the eu's relations with russia. it was agreed that the eu should engage with russia, that we should be ready to discuss all complex issues of mutual interest, and that as part of this approach, the eu should stress that its partnership with russia is not only driven by common interests but also founded on shared values. this implies discussing frankly russian practices that run counter to european values, such as human rights in chechnya, media freedom and cooperation on the environment. it also involves not hesitating to defend eu interests vigorously. third, the ministers recognised the need for the eu to change the way in which it does business with russia – to become more 'joined up', to use the bureaucratic terminology. it was agreed that the eu should establish clear, agreed objectives and positions ahead of every meeting with russia. if we wish to build what can honestly be described as a strategic partnership, eu messages must be balanced and coherent, and our ambitious political declarations must be matched by progress on substance. this requires better coordination between policies defined at eu level, and the approach of individual member states to relations with russia. why, for example, is it that the eu subscribes to joint statements with russia, in which we agree to step up cooperation on crisis management, yet the eu is unable to convince russia to work with it to resolve the very real problems in moldova and the southern caucasus? why, in addition, do we see individual member states agree to facilitate visas for russia, at the same time as russia is blocking conclusion of a readmission agreement? many of these views are shared by the report which the honourable member has presented so eloquently this morning; the report is a welcome contribution, in my judgement, to the debate on our relations with russia. our task now is to translate words into action and to establish a more coherent, strategic approach to russia, reflecting the views of the enlarged union. it is important that the eu can make real progress in its work with russia. this matters to business people wishing to gain access to the promising russian market – we should remember, after all, that after enlargement, more than 50% of russia's trade will be with the eu. it also matters to importers of energy, given russia's position as a major supplier of oil and gas. and not least, it matters because, if we are to tackle cross-border problems such as environmental pollution, illegal migration and organised crime, russia will have to shoulder more of the burden than it has previously. discussions at the general affairs and external relations council reaffirmed the interest of the eu in promoting integration in the long term, through the creation of a series of common spaces within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement. the commission has advocated strongly that, once agreement is reached on pca extension, the eu should be ready to present a draft joint action plan to russia covering all these four spaces, consistent with our neighbourhood policy and incorporating relevant elements that are of common interest to both the eu and russia. this would help to establish an issues-based agenda, focused on substance, and be a further step towards the strategic partnership that we genuinely want with the russian federation. i would like to thank the honourable member once again for presenting such a thoughtful report and i am sure it will contribute to the outcome that we both wish to see. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. there's a terrible war going on in europe. the second chechen war is now in its fifth year. it's almost as long as world war ii. every day that the war continues demonstrates the inability and unwillingness of the russian leadership to bring about a peaceful end to the civil war. the war has become self-perpetuating. the leaders of europe and the eu must take more active action to bring peace to chechnya, and we must demand that the russian army abide by the laws of war against the civilian population. the so-called purges, which are nothing but robberies and kidnappings, must be stopped and russian military officers who are abusing the civilian population must be brought to justice. the collapse of totalitarian soviet communism gave rise to great hopes and expectations for the country's development and russia's rapprochement with the rest of europe. now that we see how developments in certain areas have taken a different direction, we must make demands, not just express expectations. state-controlled media and a so-called controlled democracy do not belong to the modern democratic rule of law. president putin announced the resignation of the russian government a few days ago. he said that the new government would work more intensively to develop democracy in the country. that sounds good. let us hope that it will also become a reality. the eu is unacceptable to the fact that russia has not approved the border agreements with estonia and latvia before enlargement. it is also unacceptable that russia is opposed to the extension of the partnership agreements. russia has huge environmental problems. it is largely a legacy of the communist era, when the environment was a very low priority. the greatest risk of an environmental disaster that could also affect the eu area is the obsolete, oldest nuclear power plants of the so-called chernobyl type. they are in sosnovyj bor, not far from estonia's border with russia, and in kursk, near moscow. we must make it clear to the russians that the continued operation of these first generation rbmk reactors is unacceptable. they should be decommissioned without delay and other nuclear power plants in russia must be upgraded to the iaea safety standards. the eu's cooperation with russia to upgrade nuclear safety must be made more effective. this report is timely and has attracted a great deal of attention. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr bastiaan belder for his excellent cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eldr group is very concerned about the increasingly authoritarian developments in russia, linked to the person of putin. the sudden dissolution of the government further illustrates this. democracy seems to be going backwards, rather than the other way around; presidential elections increasingly resemble a one-man farce. the terrible atrocities in chechnya must end and the eu must work to bring about a solution as soon as possible. the environmental needs are enormous and we regret that russia does not want to ratify the kyoto protocol. the eu needs a strategic partnership with russia. we want, can and should help, but this partnership is not unconditional and cannot be dictated by moscow. here the ball is largely in putin's court today. i would also like to thank mr belder for a very good report, which we can easily vote in favour of.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bastiaan belder, for a very well written and politically balanced report. the controlled democracy that characterizes russia is a cause for great concern. we all feel that democracy in russia has not taken root and that a climate of fear has been created where people who express political views independent of president putin are threatened. not least have people with strong economic power been in trouble with the justice system. i would like to emphasize that the administrative resources and the control of the media made the parliamentary elections in douma on 17 december 2003 hardly meet international standards. an independent judiciary is required if russia is to be called a full-fledged democracy. today, the prosecutors are not independent of the political power. russia must act internationally to ensure that its military bases in georgia and moldova are closed as soon as possible. russia must act constructively in the conflict in the south caucasus and i would like to express a special appeal to the russian government to resolve the longstanding conflict between turkey and armenia and to work for reconciliation between these peoples. turkey should also recognise the genocide of the armenian people between 1915 and 1918. russia has a special responsibility for the developments in belarus, a new neighbour of the enlarged eu, which can hardly be described as a democracy, but as an authoritarian country under president alyaksandr lukashenko. finally, i want russia to act on religious freedom in a much more open and tolerant way.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the opposition in abkhazia has intensified its campaign against the leader of the breakaway republic, ardzinba. armenian and turkish cultural workers have met in an armenian monastery in eastern turkey. eduard shevardnadze's son-in-law has been arrested at tbilisi airport on suspicion of corruption. violent clashes have taken place in adzjari between supporters and opponents of the provincial leader abasjidze. the president of azerbaijan, ilham aliyev, has met with his armenian counterpart, robert kocharian. imprisoned azerbaijani politicians have gone on hunger strike. the american fbi is opening offices in tbilisi. this and much more has happened in recent days in our european sister countries armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. however, i have not found all this information in the european media, even though the three countries are members of the council of europe and the oecd and are aiming for full membership of the eu. neither the general european interest nor the eu's official interest in the south caucasus has been at the top of the agenda unless it is about war and revolution. the council does not even want to include the south caucasian countries in its strategy for wider europe, but it seems to have changed its mind. at the request of the european parliament, a special representative was finally appointed in 2003. some other eu initiatives have also been undertaken, not least the regional environmental centre in tbilisi. in general, it is too little, too late, as was shown in the rose revolution in georgia. the eu was bypassed by russia and the united states, both of whom pursue the classic policy of the great powers in their own interests. in the south caucasus, there are three countries that believe in the eu ideal and want the eu to play the leading role as a mediator and contributor to peace. my report contains a number of proposals on what the eu should do, peacefully, politically and economically. it is a question of persuading russia to adopt a more constructive attitude, of supporting the three countries' faltering democratic institutions, of developing partnerships between autonomous regions in the eu, such as those in åland, scotland, catalonia, and nagorno-karabakh, south ossetia and abkhazia. this could show that self-government can be a reasonable alternative to full sovereignty. it is also about helping the south caucasus to get out of the nuclear trap, developing renewable energy and ensuring that oil resources are managed in accordance with international environmental rules. it is a question of concrete conflict resolution, such as the opening of the baku-yerevan railway line in exchange for the withdrawal of armenian troops from azerbaijani provinces. to my surprise, the main political groups are opposed to this, but support for amendments nos 5 and 18 would seriously upset a delicate balance in the report. the same applies to the eldr group's amendment 2. if we were to endorse it and delete the reference to our own 1987 resolution on the death of countless armenians in 1915, the report would tip in one direction. that means that i can support all the amendments except 2, 5, 6, 16, 17 and 18. i have withdrawn amendment no 9 and in recital p i propose a split vote, so that the word 'blocked' can be deleted, because there is no such thing as a block. on the other hand, there are strong restrictions, which is bad enough and which i criticise, but the right choice of words is very important in situations like this. parliamentary elections will be held in georgia on 28 march 2004. it will be the decisive test of the content of democracy in the rose revolution. with a 7 percent threshold, any opposition is at risk of being kept out of parliament. i know, among other things, from a personal meeting with the prime minister of georgia, zurab zhvania, in rome the other day, that the georgian leadership is concerned. it is not enough and measures are needed, perhaps a lowering of the barriers, to prevent georgia from becoming something as strange as the world's first democratic one-party state. finally, we have all been lobbied. this is legitimate and can provide valuable information, but it would not be good if any party to all the conflicts in the south caucasus could this afternoon claim victory and say that the european parliament is on their side. i have tried to write a balanced report which does not take sides, but only takes the side of peace and sustainable development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. per gahrton has done a good report on the countries of the south caucasus. i fully share his view that it is in europe's and the eu's interest to bring the region closer to europe. there are positive signs, but there are more worries, as mr gahrton himself said. in azerbaijan, the development is going in the wrong direction. a year ago i met with the newly elected president ilham aliyev. on direct questions of electoral fraud already at that time, he emphatically denied this and referred to his own and azerbaijan's role in the council of europe. after the elections this autumn, we'll know what aliyev is up to. freedom of speech is suppressed and dissenters are thrown in jail. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. there is a humanitarian catastrophe in the refugee camps where the displaced from nagorno-karabakh live in immense misery. i myself have visited a refugee camp and i would like to say to christopher patten in particular that the eu has a great responsibility, both in terms of money and in terms of putting pressure on the parties involved in the conflict. i think that per gahrton's report shows that we need a stronger eu on the international stage, not least in order to be able to act with force in the eu's immediate vicinity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fact is that russia has not signed the agreement on the delimitation of the border with estonia and latvia, which has been reached, and therefore the agreement cannot be ratified. i therefore propose that paragraph 6 be replaced by the following:
mr president, i would like to thank you. in order for the duma to ratify the kyoto protocol, the matter must be referred to the duma. this will be done by the russian president. i therefore propose that recital f be replaced by the following:
in writing. - (sv) i voted against the report, which was adopted by 334 votes in favour, 72 against and 42 abstentions. the report calls for 'a general review of the system of own resources'. it is difficult to interpret this in any other way than that parliament will open up to a european taxation in the same way as that of mrs haug's report (a5-0238/2001) on the european union's own resources, which was adopted by a majority in parliament on 5 july 2001. neither in sweden nor in other eu countries do the citizens want another level of taxation. history shows that a new level of taxation is here to stay and increases the tax burden over time. in the end, it is a question of who has the right to levy taxes and the principle that the swedish people have the right to tax themselves should no longer apply. the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats do not want to introduce a fourth taxation level in the form of a union tax which goes beyond the tax on municipalities, counties and the state. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. in sweden, which already has the highest tax burden in the world, this will be particularly burdensome.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in 2003, the commission was forced to cut its economic forecasts for the third consecutive year. europe's economy is in a bad way, and three countries, including france and germany, which together account for half of the euro area's gdp, had budget deficits that exceeded the 3% of gdp threshold defined by the stability and growth pact. the rapporteur stresses the importance of not casting doubt on the stability and growth pact at a time when the european economy is in a state of low ebb. the report calls for the provisions of the stability and growth pact to be strictly observed. it is essential for public confidence in the legislation that the criteria are clear, measurable and objective. i could not, however, support paragraph 19 which 'calls for an increase in budgetary resources at european and national level', that is to say, further increases in taxes. it's hardly the right medicine in a situation of economic stagnation.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the decisionmaking process.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i voted in favour of the report, not least because several of my amendments were adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and now also in the plenary. the european parliament has thus, inter alia, stated to turkey in recital p that trade blockades are an obstacle in the region. in addition, recital u refers to the criticism of the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline project by the international community. 'securing freedom of religion' in the south caucasus is included in recital d. i regret, however, that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy did not adopt my amendment concerning the demand for turkish recognition of the armenian genocide of 1915-18. in this respect, turkey has much to learn from germany's handling of its dark history during the second world war, and especially the extermination of the jews, in its own interest and for the development of the whole region.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is good that there is a new high-level group that will really tackle gender mainstreaming in the eu institutions. unfortunately, this is not the first time we've been promised such a thing and we've taken on that responsibility. all the member states, their governments and their politicians have done so since the beijing conference in 1995. unfortunately, it shows that we have at best learned a new expression, but usually everything continues at the old one. i'm going to do a little nasty thing here: we're here to discuss water privatization. i would like to know how much consideration has been given to women's needs and women's rights in the discussion of the proposal to privatise water in the european union. this will of course also send a signal outside the eu.
mr president, apart from you, i think i am the only liberal here, and that is why i want to intervene.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in my opinion from the committee on employment and social affairs, i have highlighted two factors as being particularly important. firstly, there are the gender pay gaps. they mean that families often choose, for purely economic reasons, to have a maximum working time for the man, i.e. eight hours and perhaps overtime, and part-time for the woman. these wage differences, which are not chosen but dictated by the wage conditions on the market, must be eliminated if families are to be free to choose the family pattern that suits them. the second factor is the hours of work. it is becoming increasingly common for both men and women to work eight hours a day and, in addition, to have long commutes to and from work. in practice, this may result in a working day of 9 to 10 hours for both parties. this pattern imposes an unsustainable burden, especially on families with children. it leads to stress, burnout, sick leave, and problems in family life. i am therefore the only one who can say that we must limit the working time to 12 hours per family per day. it is therefore essential that we divide the working time equally between men and women, i.e. six hours for men and six hours for women. it is much better than parttime for women and fulltime for men, both for the families and for the workplaces. the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal, including the one on the reduction of working hours. i would therefore like to repeat this important point: six + six hours is much better than four + eight hours. this is a crucial issue, and one that should be highlighted on international women's day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no shortage of good old ideas and no shortage of good new ideas when it comes to combating discrimination against women. there are laws, but there are major shortcomings in implementation and priorities. earlier today we had a press conference in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i was then told that the number of people being trafficked into the eu member states for sexual exploitation had now increased from 500,000 to 800,000. i would like to express my pleasure at having a discussion here on 8 march with a swedish commissioner on these matters. i had the same discussion in 1996 with anita gradin, who then raised the figure of 500,000. since then we have adopted community legislation and the member states have claimed to give priority to this issue. so, while we have legislated and prioritized, the number has increased by 300,000. this clearly shows that the demand side must now be the focus. otherwise we can increase the appropriations for the daphne programme indefinitely without any lasting results. i fully support lissy gröner's proposal for a european year of men's violence against women in 2006. i think it's necessary. i think it was good that the 1999 joint campaign was a springboard for the millennium. the question was then really on the table in all the member states. it is also very good to have a so-called helpdesk at the commission. many different women's organisations have contacted me over the years and said that it is almost pointless to seek funds from the daphne programme. the search is so much work and so much expense that it is not even worth the effort. mrs bastos, i very much appreciate your report. at the same time, i am a little upset that the organisation of working life is becoming increasingly child-friendly. we say that there are too few children in the eu and that the eu has an ageing population. there should be more children, but it is perfectly understandable that young people are not having children today, given the conditions for caring for and raising children. we also see that the wage gap is not narrowing but increasing, both within the same workplace and between the sexes. apparently, companies today demand undying loyalty from their employees. of course, there must be child and elderly care in an organized form. it would be a waste if all well-educated women were never able to practice their skills. i would also like to thank mrs valenciano martínez-orozco. it was extremely interesting to bring together three different groups within the so-called minorities in one report.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by welcoming the commissioner to this important new recruitment. i can hardly see anyone better suited to the task in the present commission. in zambia, several women are murdered by their husbands every week. in the united states, a woman is beaten by her husband every 15 seconds. in france, some 25,000 women are raped each year. this is what i woke up to when my radio woke me up this morning. these were some of the findings of amnesty international's report on the appalling situation of women worldwide. i'm not a moralist, but there is a disgusting limit to all the pornography that bubbles up in our homes, on the internet, in newspapers and advertisements, in hotels. when you're a parent of two kids, it's hard to defend yourself. the limit is being reached. there is a clear link between prostitution and the increasingly graphic pornography on the one hand and the oppression and violence against women on the other. within the eu, half a million women and children are sold every year. according to lissy gröner, the figure is perhaps 800,000 women and children. this is shameful, extremely shameful. the lisbon process is certainly needed to strengthen the position of women in the labour market, there is no doubt about that, but if europe is to be a decent continent, this abominable crossborder trade must be stopped. my appeal to you, madam commissioner, and to the president, pat cox, is to take up this issue at the spring meeting in brussels as the first item. on 1 may the bells of freedom will ring in europe, not those of female slavery.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm a feminist, you know. for me, feminism is about seeing and recognizing that women often have a subordinate role in society and being willing to do something about it. in europe, what the eu does to make society more equal matters very much. i remember very well what happened when ingvar carlsson, as the new prime minister of sweden in 1994, appointed his government, and half of them were women. after that government was formed, it became impossible for the political parties in sweden to do anything other than to ensure that more women were given heavy political responsibilities. for us social democrats, it was a matter of course that every other woman was in the political assemblies. the same must happen in the eu. women and men should be equal. the new parliament will be elected on the basis of equality between men and women. when a new commission is appointed, it must also be gender-balanced. the same applies to all parts of the european union. there are two main reasons. firstly, women and men must of course be treated equally. we have the same rights and obligations. secondly, the signals that the eu sends are of great importance. equal opportunities for women and men is one such signal that must be sent from us here to all actors in society.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is a very important report for women, for women's right to their own bodies and for women's right to reproductive health. first, some facts. we now know that every minute a woman dies from pregnancy-related causes. every minute, 100 abortions are performed, and nearly half of them are performed by people without medical training. every year 70,000 women die as a result of unsafe abortions. every minute, ten people are infected with hiv. every year, two million girls between the ages of five and 15 are trafficked into the commercial sex trade, into modern slavery with no contraceptive protection. rape and sexual violence are also on the rise in europe. in many countries, female genital mutilation is still being inflicted on girls and women, and this is unacceptable. such a violation can result in serious injury and even death. one in three women has been a victim of violence, according to a recent amnesty report. in developing countries, reproductive problems are the leading cause of death and disability for women of childbearing age. in afghanistan, half of all deaths among women aged 15 to 50 are pregnancy-related. to refuse to support organizations that provide contraceptive advice is to knowingly contribute to the unsafe abortions and premature deaths of hundreds of thousands of women and to the infection of hundreds of thousands of women with hiv each year. this is a serious violation of human rights and poses a serious risk to women's reproductive and mental health. the eu and the member states must of course fulfil their obligations and finance and implement the cairo action programme. the eu must integrate sexual and reproductive health into development policy and, of course, require recipient countries to ban fgm.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0090/2004) by the committee on civil liberties and rights and justice and home affairs, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, amending regulation (ec) no 1612/68 and repealing directives 64/221/eec, 68/360/eec, 72/194/eec, 73/148/eec, 75/34/eec, 75/35/eec, 90/364/eec, 90/365/eec and 93/96/eec (13263/33/2003 - c5-0014/2004 - 2001/0111 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr santini).
commission. - madam president, i will speak briefly to thank all the speakers for their support for the adoption of the common position. it seems to me particularly important that we can stand in the european parliament elections with the actual proof that the fourth freedom of the treaties, freedom of movement, has been revived thanks to this legislative initiative and thanks to the adoption of this directive by the parliament and the council. of course, as you all know, the commission had bigger ambitions than the text on the table today. but we must recognize that this compromise is a really acceptable compromise. as regards the concept of family, i would draw your attention to the fact that the directive recognises the freedom of movement of registered partnerships and that article 3 provides for a clause to facilitate the freedom of movement of long-term relationships. it is true that there is room for interpretation, but we cannot say that we have ignored a social reality. given that the union has no competence to legislate on family law, we are dealing with a very variable european legal framework as regards the concept of family itself. in the field of expulsions, it is true that we would like to have a stronger guarantee against expulsions. but if we have not obtained the solid framework that the commission wanted in its proposal, at least we must recognize that the rules in the common position give a wide protection, because the guarantee against expulsion becomes wider and deeper as the stay in the host country is extended over time. i therefore believe that we have also achieved an improvement on the present situation. finally, as regards the question of enlargement, i shall not enter into the debate on the restrictive measures which are being adopted. the conformity of these measures with the accession treaty and the community acquis as a whole will have to be verified. however, these restrictive measures are taken, as i understand it, on the basis of the accession treaties which provide for an initial period of two years during which derogations from the general rules on access to the labour market will be possible. the directive is therefore primarily a directive whose objective is to guarantee freedom of movement for all citizens of the 25 member states beyond this transitional period. i therefore think that the message we are sending by adopting this directive, which everyone will be able to benefit fully from in the not too distant future, is positive, even for newcomers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i want to raise a point of order. i would like to make a complaint about the way we are handling the legislative procedure in the european parliament. i tabled four amendments which were voted down in committee. this is perfectly acceptable and i also have a reservation, but the deadline for amendments to this part-session expired at 7 p.m. this evening. several of the colleagues who could have thought of signing these amendments have not come here in time because of the problems we always have when we have to go to strasbourg. i think that the deadline could have been extended to tomorrow evening or tomorrow afternoon, so that we would have had an opportunity to deal with this. i do not think this is acceptable and i hope that you can ensure that we have a better order of things in the future.
- i understand your views on the time limit, but as you know, it is in accordance with the rules of procedure. it has to do with administration and translations, but we take your views to heart. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0095/2004) by mr oostlander, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council framework decision establishing minimum rules on the content of offences relating to illicit drug trafficking and the penalties for such offences (15102/2/2003 - c5-0618/2003 - 2001/0114 (cns)).
madam president, i would like to thank you. oostlander and i share a similar view of the terrible ravages of drugs in europe. many politicians seem to have given up on the so-called 'light drugs'; i wonder what robert evans really meant. many colleagues in this house are advocating a devious policy which, in my view, will only lead to more drug addicts, more crime and more space for the giant drug syndicates. a clear and consistent policy is the only thing that will help. abusers will be treated, but the abuse must be punished. it is a pipe dream to think that a little drug liberalism will keep young people away from harder drugs. it is true that this directive is a step in the right direction, but at the same time we must remember that the 14 have had to make considerable concessions to the netherlands, where coffee shops, as oostlander says, are allowed to continue to ravage. the drug tourism to amsterdam can continue and the netherlands can continue to export drug addiction to other countries. this is unacceptable. we must have free movement, but that freedom must not be used for drugs and crime.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many of us in the european parliament have waited a long time to see concrete action to combat drug trafficking. the framework decision has been negotiated for a long time, and that is welcome and important. it has also highlighted the political, cultural and legal differences which characterize the union. i am sure that we can sometimes be satisfied with the little things, but i share olle schmidt's view on this matter. the attitude of some countries to personal use of drugs is a little difficult for us to understand. the compromise means that personal consumption is not included in the scope. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states which are still in a position to do so may impose penalties. it's not a requirement, but it's possible and it should be. no national legislation is threatened by this. swedish law prohibits the use of drugs. that's good, and that's the way it should stay. no green or other proposals should be made to regulate swedish drug policy. that is how the overwhelming majority of my people view the green idea of allowing drugs in certain amounts. this is simply the wrong way to go. it's giving up. instead, we moderates advocate effective, individualized detox programs. the framework decision must be combined with other measures, such as the closure of drug production in afghanistan, where we should do more, and also measures on border, police and customs cooperation within the eu.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is obviously difficult to try to reach an agreement at first reading. it takes will, knowledge and cooperation. i would like to thank all the members of this parliament who have contributed to this process by resisting and supporting it. it's been hard, but it's been very, very constructive. i shall now turn to some of the aspects which are most important to me in this context. this is the case, for example, with the scope. i am exceptionally pleased that animal health and welfare are now covered by the inspections. it is perhaps the greatest success of parliament in this extremely sensitive area, which is of the utmost importance to all our voters in all countries. this applies, for example, to the transport of animals across europe, and it is important that they are at least included in the control programme. parliament also inspected the labelling during the inspections. the control programmes of the countries concerned shall include the inspection of the correctness of the labelling of the food packaging, its compliance with the rules and the de facto conformity of the contents and the declaration of contents. this is a key point for us as normal consumers when we are going to buy a quick dinner on a normal thursday afternoon. the whole chain should be covered from the field to the shop, cafeteria and restaurant is the principle which is of course pervasive throughout food safety legislation. another aspect, which i am both disappointed and happy about, is transparency. on the committee's part, a clear majority called for a system of name, shame and fame. it was not possible to do so because the member states invoked legal, constitutional grounds. as a liberal, i may have come to realize that it is not the job of government to say that one producer is good and the other is bad. with the transparency system now in this regulation, we have left this function of name, shame and fame to civil society. a consumer group, an animal welfare group or a local media outlet can request to receive the inspection reports and thus provide this function and tell citizens what is going on behind the scenes. the financing of the levy is a very controversial issue - not between the commission, the council and myself, but within parliament. some want a fixed, flat fee, one that is firm and equal for all. that might be very good, but this has been tried and failed. not all countries in the union are exactly alike. you do not have the same conditions from portugal to finland or from ireland to hungary. however, i think that the proposal before us is actually quite balanced. fees are to be charged, but the expenditure to be included is clearly defined. in addition, special attention should be paid to small and traditional enterprises, which i think is very important. it is important that we in the european parliament take care of the small producers, the unusual products, those which are the essence of europe's cultural heritage on the table. we have to defend them and we have to give them a chance. they are not exempt from security concerns, but they may in fact be given less fees for this check. i appeal to all of you to vote today despite all the problems that exist, and to follow my compromise list. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again the commission, the council and, in particular, the italian and irish presidencies. thank you so much for a wonderful collaboration!
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think we should vote now. we have had the opportunity to discuss and i have had close contact with the shadow rapporteurs and the groups which have been interested in contact.
in writing. - (sv) we have voted against the compromise on the harmonization of the laws of the member states on intellectual property rights, primarily because of the amendment to article 9. if the proposals to amend article 9 are adopted, it would be contrary to swedish case law, first and foremost the principle of free assessment of evidence. if such extensive changes are to be made to legislation and thus to swedish case law, we believe that the changes must be well thought out and worked through and not rushed through as is happening now. we are not therefore opposed to a change in legislation, but we do not think that the changes in their present form are satisfactory.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we support the council's decision in its entirety and believe that this amendment limits the scope of the framework decision and therefore clearly undermines the council's text. we also want to stress that the union should adopt every means to combat the use and sale of drugs. we interpret the council decision as a ban on the drug trade and therefore believe that so-called coffee shops should not exist in the eu.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) drug policy is not harmonised in the eu today, but each country draws up its own policy. this does not prevent drug problems from being high on the political agenda. abuse is occurring at a younger and younger age, and more and more youths see no danger in trying marijuana. even the so-called adhesives, that is to say the most dangerous synthetic substances, are becoming more and more widespread. in a europe without frontiers we risk having even greater drug problems as drug legalization spreads outside the netherlands. it seems that many have already given up the fight for a drug-free europe. it is worth repeating that there is a link between the number of people who test and the number of people who are at risk of becoming addicted. that is why the possession and use of drugs must remain a criminal offence. the wrong signals are still being sent to europe's young people when anyone can buy 5 grams of cannabis in a so-called coffee shop. we must not be satisfied with this framework decision but must continue to strive for a drug-free europe. we say no. we do not want to legalise, we do not want to liberalise, and we have not given up the dream of zero tolerance for drugs.
in writing. - (sv) we are in favour of an agency for better coordination and cooperation in the field of border control. we would, however, like to stress the importance of national self-determination in the implementation of border controls. the powers of the member states must not be restricted and their influence on the development of crossborder cooperation must be preserved intact.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to vote is guaranteed. we therefore welcome a framework directive in this area which sets targets for, for example, working time, childcare and minimum levels of parental leave. we do not think, however, that the organization of welfare should be decided at eu level. we have therefore voted against formulations which call for special tax breaks, the use of so-called checks or otherwise regulate welfare policy in detail. we also want to emphasize that a family can be made up of different forms of coexistence and therefore support the wording which establishes this. even families which do not consist of a father, a mother and a child must also be recognised and have the same legal status as the traditional family.
in the case of the family, the family is not a political issue. it must be possible for both parents to combine work and family responsibilities. the moderate family policy will have a very flexible childcare system. we can in principle support several of the proposals in the report. we note that the explanatory statement of the report emphasizes that the eu has no competence in the field of family policy. we agree with that and have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i have strongly supported the european parliament's statement in paragraph 3 that it is christian-democratic in its view that family policy should create the conditions for parents to spend more time with their children. the same paragraph also emphasizes the value of this also "having positive effects in terms of establishing families and ensuring more stable families". in view of this, as stated in paragraph 2, it is important to 'address the demographic problem facing the majority of member states'. in line with our social vision, recital k of the report states that 'the rights of the child should be at the heart of family policies'. the ppe group succeeded in having recital g rejected (321 votes against, 169 in favour and 21 against) and thus attempted to create a new and diffuse definition of what a family is. that is certainly not a task for the eu. the ppe group believes that the concept of the family is based on the right of children to a mother and a father and on the responsibility of parents for their children. children must always be at the heart of the shaping of our society, while the family is the most important and fundamental building block of society. that is why i voted for the report as a whole (424 votes in favour, 51 against and 37 abstentions).
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) before the swedish referendum on eu membership in 1994, all parties working for eu membership stated that the eu had no competence to take decisions on issues of cohabitation, marriage law and abortion. they promised to work towards keeping these issues strictly within the national sphere of legislation, without any eu interference. we stand by this promise to the swedish electorate. we believe that national legislation is much better in this area than common eu legislation. we can see that other swedish parties have abandoned this promise and are ready to bring these issues up at eu level. this is detrimental to swedish citizens and risks being contrary to swedish practice and custom. there is no immediate need for coordination and the best adapted legislation is obtained if the various national parliaments in the eu prepare legislation in this area. the eu's aid policy must also respect the laws of each country. we share the swedish view on the right to abortion, but in respect for third countries we have voted against the parts of the junker report which call for free abortion. the report also focuses on the serious health problems in developing countries, where eu aid policy plays an important role.
in writing. - (sv) i, together with the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, voted against the report as a whole, which was nevertheless adopted (287 votes in favour, 196 against and 13 abstentions). we want population, aid and development policies to combine the fight for democracy and human rights with respect for the democratically decided legislation of each country, in this case family and health policies. the report does not express such a desire or view. an example of this is paragraph 20, which contains a requirement to "provide safe abortion". we demanded a clarification of this point in amendment no 20 with the addition of 'in the countries where it is legal'. amendments nos 21 and 30, which i supported, also sought greater respect for the laws of other countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the eu and the un are thus showing a lack of respect for the laws of other countries. this undermines confidence in aid work, creates conflict, clashes of cultures, religions and values and leaves a bitter aftertaste of european superiority.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to congratulate the united kingdom on the fact that today it is to take home five of the british citizens who have been held at guantánamo bay. according to swedish media reports today, they will be arrested and interrogated when they land in the uk tonight. four more british detainees at guantanamo will not be released, at least not yet. the swedish prisoner, mehdi ghezali, is also still in custody and there is no prospect of his release. it's been like this for over two years. as regards the swedish citizen, the swedish government initially indicated that it would raise the matter with its colleagues in the council of the european union. here we are today, over two years later, and we've only gotten this far. mehdi ghezali is young, like so many of these prisoners. these are young people, and many of them can even be considered children. mehdi ghezalis's family hasn't heard from him in 13 months. the swedish foreign ministry officials who have been allowed to visit mehdi ghezali are not allowed to tell the family how he is doing. his lawyer hasn't been allowed to see him either. commissioner patten said that we should have a good relationship with the united states. we shall have good relations with the united states, but we shall also have good relations with all other nations. here i think the old saying "it takes two to tango" is good. the us attitude on this issue does not, unfortunately, encourage any greater confidence. of course we remember 9/11, but i also remember the images that have emerged from guantanamo bay, after all, of young people sitting in cages, handcuffed. we're committed to human rights. we can't just have a debate about them on a regular basis. they must also mean something, and that is why i would like to thank ole andreasen for a very good report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. now there are only fifty days left on the long journey that began with the joyful scenes of november 9, 1989, at the brandenburg gate in berlin. in fifty days europe will be a united continent and almost half a billion people will come together to defend european values and to solve common problems: environmental pollution, crossborder crime, not least the trafficking of human beings that everyone has mentioned, and the work for a better and fairer world. the enlargement of the eu is a great example of what we can achieve when we have a clear objective and a clear strategy in the eu. with eu membership as their goal and hard work on their own, the former communist dictatorships have now become fully functioning democracies and market economies. future membership has also contributed to the reform process in turkey and to the possibility that we may finally be able to resolve the cyprus problem. of course, there are still a number of problems, as elmar brok also pointed out in his excellent report. the eu will change dramatically in the coming years and the big task of the next mandate will be to make this enlarged europe work. that is why it is so urgent that the convention's proposals are actually implemented so that the eu can make decisions and function democratically. the eldr group is always particularly concerned about the rights of minorities and therefore we are very concerned about the unrest within the roma group in slovakia. the cuts in social benefits are particularly hard on this group and we hope that the commission can continue to monitor the situation of the roma in both the new and the old member states. finally, i too regret that we are building new walls against the new member states in the form of various types of transitional rules. one country after another is introducing more or less discriminatory rules based on fears that seem deeply unfounded and eagerly promoted by the press in some countries. instead of restricting free movement, we should welcome the fact that more and more people are covered by it. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. - (sv) we are anxious for the directive on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states to enter into force as soon as possible. we therefore support the decision reached by the council.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we are concerned that country after country is introducing transitional rules for the new member states. we now risk having to live with these transitional rules which discriminate against the new member states for the next 10 to 20 years. the transitional rules are being introduced on the grounds that there is a risk of misuse of the support schemes in the current member states when the borders are opened to the new eu citizens in the spring. today, a 10-hour workweek is enough to gain access to the new country's welfare system. instead, the requirement should be that you can make a living from your work. we have therefore tried to get some general measures adopted, covering all eu citizens, whereby the definition of work is changed so that work is to be paid for. this already applies to pensioners and students. in this way the eu is opened to the free movement of labour, but not to the abuse of subsidies. we also have doubts about the definition of family member, which should be extended to include spouses, registered partners and unmarried partners of any sex. since we are not getting support for this, we shall vote against the report.
in writing. - (sv) we have chosen neither to vote for nor against the prets, pack and ilvari reports. the reason for this is that we believe that issues of culture and education should be at national level, where decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizens. we are opposed in principle to the pack report selecting a small number of schools which receive a large proportion of the total training aid from the eu. we think there are many other good schools that should also be taken into account. if the eu is to become more effective and more active on the major crossborder issues, it also requires that we leave the policy on everyday issues such as education, culture and youth to the member states themselves. these questions must be brought closer to the citizens!
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we voted against all the amendments to the commission's proposal and against the report as a whole. we want a modern european agriculture in line with the reform of the common agricultural policy. we believe that the commission's proposal is a step forward in achieving the objectives of the union's agricultural policy. we are in favour of a fundamental reform of the agricultural policy, with the decoupling of agricultural aid as the guiding principle. that is why we support the commission's proposal. supporting the wording of the report would be a major step backwards in the work of reforming european agriculture, since the wording of parliament continues to promote direct aid and production-related aid to an all too great extent. the eu's agricultural policy aims to give farmers greater freedom to produce what the market demands, leading to a consumer-friendly supply. this is important, especially from an international perspective, in order not to make it more difficult for developing countries to compete on the european market with their agricultural products. these are fundamental principles which are important to us and which must be taken into account in the union's agricultural policy, particularly in the cotton and tobacco sectors.
in writing. - (sv) we moderates believe that direct support for tobacco, olives, cotton and hops should be abolished. european support for tobacco cultivation is neither morally nor economically justifiable. we also believe that the protective duty on olives should be abolished.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted against all the amendments and against the final vote on the report because we think it is wrong for the eu to continue to give more aid to tobacco plantations, olive growing and cotton production than the commission's original proposal entails. we believe that this aid should be phased out and that taxpayers' money should be used in a more appropriate way. the ppe-de group sees increased support as a problem of principle and, in the case of tobacco, there are strong ethical arguments against the aid itself. since many developing countries are totally dependent on their cotton production, eu aid distorts competition. these countries are even less well placed than regions in the eu to deal with the transition problems that arise if certain parts of production are phased out.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we voted against amendments nos 1-28, 30-39 and 40-43 to the commission proposal and against the report as a whole. we want a modern european agriculture in line with the reform of the common agricultural policy. we believe that the commission's proposal is a step forward in achieving the objectives of the union's agricultural policy. we are in favour of a fundamental reform of the agricultural policy, with the decoupling of agricultural aid as the guiding principle. that is why we support the commission's proposal. supporting the wording of the parliament's report would be a major step backwards in the work of reforming european agriculture, since the wording of the parliament continues to promote direct aid and production-related aid to an excessively large extent. the eu's agricultural policy aims to give farmers greater freedom to produce what the market demands, leading to a consumer-friendly supply. this is important, especially from an international perspective, in order not to make it more difficult for developing countries to compete on the european market with their agricultural products. these are fundamental principles which are important to us and which must be taken into account in the union's agricultural policy.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted against all the amendments and against the final vote on the report because we believe that it is wrong for the eu to continue to give more support to olive growing than the commission's original proposal entails. we believe that this aid should be phased out and that taxpayers' money should be used in a more appropriate way. the ppe-de group sees increased support as a problem of principle. since many developing countries are totally dependent on their cotton production, eu aid distorts competition. these countries are even less well placed than regions in the eu to deal with the transition problems that arise if certain parts of production are phased out. the parliament's proposal not only involves higher aid than the commission's proposal, but also imposes more specific requirements on products and classification systems. this may be commendable, but it is often a way of protecting oneself against external competition, that is, a hidden obstacle to trade which makes free trade difficult.
in writing. - (sv) we moderates support the demand that the guantanamo prisoners should have a fair trial and we have therefore voted in favour of this report. we do not, however, consider it self-evident that the prisoners meet the conditions of the geneva convention for being considered prisoners of war, and it is therefore not correct in the report to invoke the provisions of the geneva convention on the treatment of prisoners of war as being synonymous with the rights of the prisoners of guantánamo.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled an opinion on the proposal. mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner! fifteen years after the countries of eastern europe threw off the communist straitjacket, we are seeing a whole new life and new countries indeed. it's a fantastic achievement by these people. as members of the eu, they, like the rest of us, should have free movement to create greater cohesion and strength throughout the union. in various ways, in my work on enlargement, i have met many ambitious, hardworking people. that is why i regret that we in the present member states seem so afraid of the labour force coming here. i am ashamed that in my own country people talk about social tourism. this mobility would be a necessary injection into our under-staffed labour markets. agriculture is more important in these countries than in the present member states. the area is larger, the agricultural population is three times as large as in the present eu and agriculture accounts for a larger share of gross national income, so agricultural policy is more important to these countries than it really is to us. we need a policy for all countries. we must of course ensure that the new member states have support and control organisations, that they can tighten up food standards and veterinary and phytosanitary inspections. a lot has happened and if we compare the situation with the commission's report, we can be pleased to hear that much of what was not done on 30 september 2003 has now been done. we hope to have the rest of the work completed by 1 may 2004. as regards the two countries we are also dealing with, bulgaria and romania, it is important to say that bulgaria has made great progress in recent years and that it deserves all the credit for this. romania has had a more difficult time and has more to gain, but we have received reports this morning that things are going well, and we must of course confirm this and think it is a good thing. romania is the most typical agricultural country among the applicant countries with many small farms. forty percent of the population is still active in agriculture and many farms are based on pure subsistence farming. it is a huge economic and social transformation that is necessary to cope with the development, but we must remember that we have a shared responsibility. the applicant countries have their responsibility, but the present member states also have a responsibility. the commission must be involved and not just make demands. it must also stimulate and provide resources. the sapard funds must be used more effectively. after nearly 40 years of trying to follow developments in central and eastern europe, i am sincerely pleased to be able to welcome them both on 1 may 2004 and in 2007.
mr president, i would like to thank you. parliament fully shares the commission and the commissioner responsible for enlargement, mr günter verheugen, in their view that the absence of an agreement on cyprus could represent a serious obstacle to turkey's aspirations to membership of the european union. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. it hoped that the political leaders in turkey would understand the full implications of this. i would like to quote a very important sentence in paragraph 63. it is indeed difficult to conceive of turkey joining a union in which there is a member state which it does not recognise, whose territory it partially occupies militarily, whose ships it boycotts and which does not have access to its airspace.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as representatives of europe's voters and people, we have some overarching tasks as politicians. firstly, we must ensure that we have a good living environment and secondly that we have employment, not least for our young people in the future. to achieve a good environment, jobs and growth, we must use transport routes, communications. we must use the transeuropean networks in a european context for this. in this way we can create both growth and a good environment. this must also be done in the peripheral parts of the north where we have close trade relations with russia, among others. it would benefit the whole of the eu industrially and create jobs. that is why we propose in amendment no 47 that the haparanda railway should be a priority project within the transeuropean networks. this railway connects the main lines, which together form an important freight line in northern sweden, and which in turn connects to the nordic triangle, the council's project no 12. the haparanda trail is a missing link. it is a mature project which includes the upgrading and new construction of the railway on the swedish side to raise the standard and a rational track gauge at the national border in haparandatorneå. the project would facilitate trade with russia and improve the environment in the eu. north-western russia has very large raw material resources which should be of interest to european industry and which are transported along this route. an improvement in rail connectivity can therefore be expected to contribute to a continued favourable development of trade. the track gauge part of the project will provide experience that can be used in other locations in the eu that have problems with interconnecting railway networks with different track gauges, such as between the baltic states and central europe and between russia and the eu. i would like to end by agreeing with what mr savary said at the beginning of the debate.
i would like to thank mr roche of the irish presidency for being so very clear and saying that this is the modern-day equivalent of slavery. in fact, it is in the rich western european world that despicable men exploit women and children. this is not just about poverty. it is here in the rich western europe of the eu that they are humiliated. my question is as follows. is the irish presidency prepared to give priority to the fight against human trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children and women so that this issue of decency is brought up where it belongs as the most important of all civilization issues concerning the decency of europe? my second question is whether the irish presidency is prepared to strengthen european police cooperation and to involve europol and eurojust in this necessary fight for the decency of europe and for human dignity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask the minister a supplementary question. do you think that, in view of the situation in the middle east, israel and palestine, and the terrorist attacks against israel, it may be difficult to maintain full freedom of movement? can you share the view that it may be difficult for israel to maintain freedom of movement, given that the country also has a right to protect itself against terrorist attacks?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? so here we are again, and i am making a new attempt to make this house aware of the importance of changing the current rules on vat collection by postal services. the committee and the plenary rejected my proposal a few months ago, so now lulling and i are returning with a number of amendments to appease the critical colleagues. i myself, as the commissioner says, would have preferred the commission's proposal straight away, but there was no majority in favour. the market is being liberalised at european level as well as at national level. several former state-owned postal and telephone companies have been converted into public limited companies. they need different rules. the current unfair tax treatment not only hinders the development of open markets and thus the liberalisation of postal services but also distorts and hinders competition for both public and private operators. the economic impact on consumers would be negligible. it's the famous one-penny-for-a-stamp raise, or no raise at all. there may even be a price reduction if member states use a reduced rate of taxation. the postal operators mentioned by the commissioner pay vat. they can also deduct input vat. this way they can reduce their overall costs. this is good for new investments and the modernisation of old monopolies. i'd like to do it again. we've made some modifications since the last treatment. the weight limit for the reduced rate of taxation for standard postal items is proposed to be raised from 2 to 10 kg. this is one of the weight limits set by the upu. in this way, important parts of the standard mail would be included in the weight class for the reduced rate. these are daily newspapers, weekly newspapers and other parcel items. the entry into force of the directive is postponed to 2007. it will give member states and postal operators sufficient time to adapt to the new provisions of the directive. it also fits in with the various deregulation steps planned for the postal market. it is also proposed that member states which applied a super-reduced rate of taxation on 1 january 2003 may continue to apply this rate to postal services. we also have proposals for various organizations that are concerned with such things as gifts and other things. i hope that these compromises will be sufficient. it would be unfortunate if nothing happened at all. the big question that has been dealt with recently is what happens to the royal mail. the other postal companies, as the commissioner says, support this proposal. the industry thinks it's good. data from the uk national regulator postcom shows that the abolition of the vat exemption for public service operators would not result in price increases for consumers. instead, it would create a level playing field which would ultimately lead to increased competition, greater choice for postal customers and lower prices. i spoke to a senior official at postcom who put it this way: there is no reason for royal mail to retain this vat exemption. it's not necessary to protect the royal mail. it is not necessary to protect consumers. it's the opposite. i think it is a pity that so many clever colleagues like goebbels, skinner, villiers and, not least, my own party colleague huhne, have not been able to persuade in a reasonable direction. i regret this and can only say that if parliament says no again tomorrow, which unfortunately is very encouraging, i will have failed miserably. we can perhaps live with that, i can live with that, but the european consumers have lost. they're the big losers. i hope my colleagues can think about that, if only during the night before the vote tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to express my sympathy with your country and your people at this difficult time. may 1, 2004 is the time. it is now time to build the new europe, but unfortunately our celebration begins with all the member states erecting new walls against those who want to come from the new member states to the present 15. this is exceedingly gloomy. i think it can be avoided. i do not share the commissioner's view. the conditions are so different between our countries. as long as we do not have a common welfare system, a common financing and a common tax system, it is reasonable that in the new large eu we take account of different national views. it does not in any way jeopardise the free movement of workers, on the contrary. the important thing is that by making these changes we reduce the need for transitional rules. it's not discriminatory against anyone. it's the same for poles, germans and danes. the two most generous benefits in sweden, parental allowance and child benefit, are paid to all those who give birth to a child in sweden. they are not linked to gainful employment but are financed by taxation. most other countries have already moved on and have listed many contributions among the exemptions in the annex. i therefore ask for the full support of the house for amendment no 9 to 12.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to express our condolences on behalf of the swedish members of parliament to our spanish colleagues and commissioner solbes mira and condemn the terrible act that took place in madrid today. in parallel with the annual change, the modernisation of regulation (eec) no 1408/71 is also under way, which is linked to these annual changes. this means that we will probably have to deal with this annex again in the autumn. it will then be called annex x instead. perhaps i think the commission should have been careful not to make any changes this year until we have completed the modernisation, where the principles are partly changed and fixed. that's my personal opinion. annex iia is based on certain principles for what may be brought forward by member states. member states cannot include whatever they think fits in annex iia. these benefits are not general but require a certain assessment of needs. family benefits are definitely not one of them. i would like to point out to olle schmidt and the eldr group that the swedish child benefit is general. this also applies to the family allowance, the study allowance and the parental allowance guarantee. this means that they do not belong to annex iia. that may seem right or wrong, but surely everyone agrees that the annexes must be based on certain principles? the housing allowance for families with children is also unlikely to be included, but it is the only benefit that could possibly be discussed. that is why i reject olle schmidt's proposal. we cannot go beyond the principles we have agreed on together. olle schmidt says that we have so many different systems - which is true - but he also says that we could live with these different systems, that they do not affect free movement and that we do not need these regulations. i don't agree with him on that one. we need a framework of rules for people moving across borders and for people to receive social benefits. if we were to change this system drastically, for example by saying that no family benefits can be carried over, that would have a negative impact on free movement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would first like to say that we think karin jöns' report is good in many ways. in particular, we welcome the fact that it makes it so clear that health care should be provided close to the patients in their local environment, because family relationships, colleagues and other relatives mean so much to the quality of care and rehabilitation. at the moment, however, it seems that things are going in the opposite direction. health care will be part of the single market. today, as we are having this discussion, the competition council is sitting in brussels and discussing. the commission will be presenting a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the basic principle is that any producer who is an approved operator in one member state should be free to establish operations in any other member state. it will rapidly break down the public healthcare systems and pave the way for massive privatization. instead of patient-centric care in local settings, we will have large multinational healthcare companies, pharmaceutical conglomerates and health insurance companies that become the big, powerful players in a market where big business and profit interests are the ones that drive the business. i have even read a report on how to transport sick people, so-called mobile patients, around this large market. this threatens the rights of patients and we in the european parliament must do everything we can to stop such a development. we must get the commission to stop and give us more time for responsible treatment. there are many services which can function very well in the internal market, but there are also services and health care is one of those which has a different character and is not at all suited to market principles. crossborder cooperation is also needed in the field of health services. however, it should and can be developed between member states and border regions on the basis of more practical needs rather than the abstract principle of the internal market organisation. if the commission's offensive to bring the former public services under the internal market principles is pursued, popular opposition to the eu project as a whole will grow to unprecedented heights. the house also welcomes the fact that the commission has now adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. if that does not happen, at least the gue/ngl group cannot vote in favour of the report in the final vote.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) during the swedish referendum on eu membership in 1994, all political parties working for swedish membership claimed that cohabitation, marriage law and abortion issues were outside the eu's decision-making competence. all parties promised to work towards keeping these issues strictly within the national sphere of legislation, without eu interference. we moderates are committed to this promise to the swedish electorate and we believe that national legislation is much better than common eu legislation in this area. we can see that other swedish political parties have abandoned their promise and are now ready to take the issues to the eu level. in the long run, this is to the disadvantage of swedish citizens and there is a risk that it will be in contrast to the traditions and customs of sweden. there is no apparent need for coordination. the best adapted legislation is to be found if the various national parliaments in the eu themselves draft the legislation. in view of the enlargement of the european union, the legislation of individual acceding countries in this area must also be respected. we swedish moderates support the swedish view on the right to abortion and homosexual partnerships, but out of respect for other eu countries we voted against the section in the brok report which calls for a new abortion and partnership legislation in poland.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and social care systems are properly integrated into the community. since the report sets out in great detail how the member states are to organise their health and care services for the elderly, we have voted against it. we have done so despite the fact that we can in principle support some of the proposals that are presented in the report, such as the right of eu citizens to health care throughout the union.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the community's economy. in her report, karin jöns deals with health and care for the elderly, which affect the individual in a variety of ways and to a large extent in their daily lives. she is addressing many important health aspects, which we also believe are of great importance to the people of europe. however, we believe that the responsibility for health care should lie as close to the user as possible. in order to have the best tailored health care, we believe that the responsibility should be at national level and not at eu level. that is why we have voted against this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner solbes mira, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i went to ukraine as one of the european parliament's election observers at easter 2002. i noticed a striking fear and anxiety about expressing one's political opinion freely, especially among young candidates, which concerned me. in the context of the commission's programme for a wider europe, i have worked to ensure that the european parliament would give a favourable opinion, which it did, so that ukraine would have a european perspective and, as a european nation, would be able to become a member of this union at some point. at the same time, i would like to remind you that ukraine is a very old nation. however, it is a young state, having lived under russian and soviet communist rule. against this background, it is particularly regrettable that so many people in the media and journalism are suffering, that radio liberty is being shut down, that the main opposition newspaper silsky visty has been brought to trial, that the private radio station radio dovira has been shut down and that journalists are being threatened and even murdered. the deaths of journalists georgij gongadze and yuri chechik are still unsolved. many people in this parliament have warm hearts for ukraine. that is why we are particularly saddened by the developments, especially in the media sector, in this country, which is one of the most dangerous countries in the world to work as a journalist. the canadian senate passed a resolution in june 2003 that addressed the genocide and mass killings under stalin that left 7 million ukrainians dead. let us remember this. the fourth sunday of november each year is a day of remembrance for this genocide and this mass famine.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following report (a5-0079/2004) by mr skinner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market and amending directive 2001/34/ec (com (2003) 138 - c5-0151/2003 - 2003/0045 (cod)) and the second reading recommendation (a5-0114/2004) by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments, amending council directive 85/611/eec, council directive 93/6/eec and directive 2000/12/ec of the european parliament and of the council, and repealing council directive 93/22/eec (editor: mr villiers).
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to the two rapporteurs, mrs villiers and mr skinner, for their outstanding work and for their energy and tenacity in the negotiations with the council. i would like to thank commissioner bolkestein for these two important parts of the financial services action plan. we can now create a single financial market within the eu. this is extremely important and it provides the opportunity for economic growth, continued competition and more jobs, just as katiforis says in line with the lisbon process, which is going far too slowly. in order to achieve our objectives, it is essential that investors and consumers have confidence in the financial markets and their operators. unfortunately, there have been many scandals in recent years and public confidence has been damaged. we must therefore create a credible regulatory framework, not too heavy and bureaucratic, but not too lightweight either. the rapporteur has done an excellent job on the investment services and regulated markets directive. i think that mr villiers has shown a particular ability to reach reasonable and understandable compromises. i would say that she has been a very good european. the liberal group believes that the committee's amendment balances the requirements of investor choice and investor protection and creates rules for the proper functioning of financial markets within the eu. i admit that mr chris huhne and i would have gone further, but we can live with the compromises. they allow for continued competition between different trading venues. the amendments also abolish the so-called merger rules. finally, a few words on the skinner report. i myself have had difficulty with the committee's wish to scrap the commission's proposal for mandatory quarterly reporting. the countries that have introduced such reporting feel that it works well. that is also the opinion of the stockholm stock exchange. one market participant i spoke with felt that companies that could not report their results and their view of the future of the company every quarter had no business being listed on the stock exchange. there is now a reasonable compromise which can be made with semiannual reporting with possible review of the directive within five years.
commission. – madam president, there is not much more i can say, since only a few questions have been addressed to the commission. firstly, i should like to reassure mrs villiers on one point: i can confirm that the new article 19 will allow the execution-only business to go on under conditions that will now be harmonised at community level. mrs van den berg mentioned two points. in agreement with her, i should like to say that the compromise acknowledges that investors must be provided with better information on executive remuneration. the topic is currently under review, as mrs van den berg quite rightly said, in the context of the action plan on modernising company law and enhancing corporate governance, an action plan dated 21 may 2003. i think mrs van den berg would agree with that. in addition, a push will be given to the movement that favours more transparency on what the extractive industries pay to governments. whilst maintaining a voluntary approach, the compromise gives a clear signal to member states to encourage more transparency from issuers in their annual reports and within the framework of current international initiatives, such as those taken by the world bank. i now come to a point raised by mr mann and mr skinner concerning the way in which information should be disseminated in europe. a reasonable compromise has been found. the compromise is neutral as regards the use of any technology, thus neither excluding newspapers nor electronic means. furthermore, it would be made clear in a recital that a home member state may always request publication of regulated information via newspapers, in addition to other measures of dissemination. i now come back to a matter raised again by mrs villiers, and also mrs berès who, unfortunately, has left the chamber. in reply i should like to say that, obviously, during the implementation of the isd the commission will make every effort to find a balanced solution. to that end, cesr, the member states and parliaments will be fully associated. finally, the whole process of adopting implementing rules will be fully transparent. all market participants will have the opportunity to make known their views. lastly, i would regret it very much if mrs lulling were to vote in favour avec la mort dans l'âme. after all, we cannot really allow that, so i hope that she will reconsider and will vote avec une certaine joie dans l'âme.
- thank you very much, lieutenant bolkestein. the negotiations are over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the proposal for a resolution (b5-0156/2004) by the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs on the level of protection of personal data.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu must of course be involved in the international fight against terrorism, as the conclusions of the european council last week also show. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. it is high time that the union took seriously the balance between the fight against terrorism, the fight against crime and fundamental rights. the new terrorist czar should have an integrity czar as a co-star. it would be possible already now - before the constitution comes into force - to guarantee democratic transparency if the political will existed. the eu must not play down the respect for privacy, the integrity. europe is a leader in this area and article 29 of the committee's objections raises serious concerns. the objective is, of course, a global solution, and citizens must have the same and high legal certainty. counterterrorism is much more difficult and requires much more multifaceted approaches. this solution will not eliminate all terrorism. sometimes it seems like you believed it. in conclusion, i would like to make the following points. it is a most unsatisfactory situation we find ourselves in. bolkestein has just demonstrated this in his speech. moreover, even before parliament takes a position on the matter, the council has already announced its intention to accept the american demands, which makes one wonder why parliament should have any opinion at all in such a situation. i call on the commission, whatever the vote on this issue, to continue tirelessly to work towards both better legal protection and protection against terrorism in many other forms than this one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to mention, as the rapporteur did, the recent house search carried out by the belgian police on the instructions of olaf on a german journalist. it is a very serious interference with the freedom of the press when olaf breaks into a journalist's home and confiscates computers, notes, address books and mobile phones. after this house search, the belgian police have not really come up with any concrete charges. i therefore sincerely hope that olaf has a very good explanation for why it has acted in this way. it's really necessary. if olaf cannot provide such an explanation, i believe that the director of olaf cannot continue to be in office. i would also like to ask the european commission whether it was aware of this in advance and, if so, who in the commission knew about it. you're welcome to answer here and now. olaf has been the subject of much criticism in the wake of the eurostat scandal. i think that the criticism has been justified in the main. the director of olaf chose not to inform the commission in time. it is clear that the information transfer needs to be fundamentally reformed, which is now also being proposed to some extent. the rapporteur's report is a very thorough piece of work and a rather gloomy read. it is a kind of conclusion to five years of work since the santer commission was forced to resign. what we can see is that the problems of fraud and irregularities have not disappeared. the problems have even increased in the last year. we can also see that the promises made in the past to hold the commission to account have not been kept, particularly in the eurostat scandal. the problem is not just with control systems. it's also about system failures. such a thing as export refunds for live animals invites cheating. it also involves systematically organized and taxpayer-funded animal cruelty. the existence of such systems is in fact an invitation to misuse of taxpayers' money in the european union. there is no need for increased control in the first place. we need to get rid of this system as quickly as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say to the commissioner that i look forward to meeting you tomorrow to exchange experiences and views on the social agenda. i would then like to turn to the rapporteur, mr pérez álvarez. i see stephen hughes is not here today. this is because it is sometimes difficult to get to strasbourg because of the lack of air links. stephen hughes got stuck on the way here. i would like to thank mr pérez álvarez on behalf of the socialist group and mr stephen hughes for the very good cooperation. the fact that we have reached this result is largely due to the good cooperation between the ppe-de group and the pse group. pérez álvarez and stephen hughes have been the leading figures in this collaboration. there have been two objectives that we have had as a starting point. one is to produce a good directive in this area, which ensures the health and safety of workers. the second objective has been to reach agreement before the end of the mandate, so that we do not have to put off the matter. it has already been said that this directive is part of the package on health and safety and physical agents. we have dealt with vibration and noise before and now we have come to electromagnetic fields and workers' exposure to them. this affects many people in the labour market. let me give you a few examples. there are people in health care, people in the catering business and in the metal industry. it is an important directive on which we now have to take a position. there has been a discussion on the long-term effects and the difficulties in finding scientific evidence to assess the long-term effects. i think that the amendments which we have tabled in committee and which we hope to have heard, highlight some important points. first, the consultation and participation of employees is discussed. another important issue is, of course, prevention, i.e. when a worker is exposed to overexposure, he has an automatic right to health checks. if these health checks reveal that the worker has been exposed to overexposure and has been harmed as a result, a new risk assessment is carried out. i consider this perhaps the most important of the amendments which our committee is now tabled. it is also important that the sanctions for employers who do not follow these recommendations should be strong. i should also like to mention the last amendment, namely that there is a time limit within which the commission must respond. if new findings are made, the initiative should be taken and parliament should be consulted again. finally, i would like to say a big thank you. it's been a good partnership and i hope this leads to a happy ending. i'm sure you will.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are now nearing the end of almost five years of work to try to get safer food in europe. the schnellhardt recommendations are a very important part of this effort, as they concern the question of what the restaurants, shops, butchers and cutting plants, whether large or small, should look like in practice. i can say on behalf of the liberal group that this has taken an infinite amount of time. it's been rough. horst schnellhardt and i have of course had different views on certain technical questions, both in his report and in mine, which are closely linked in certain areas. nevertheless, i must say that schnellhardt has done a very qualified and good job in the end. there is no doubt about that. i want to thank you for the cooperation that has been. we will support the compromise, albeit not with all our hearts. there are a couple of small parts that i am very concerned about, for example, the definition of a cutting plant. it does not explicitly state that the rules actually apply to all establishments cutting and handling raw meat. i regret this, because we know how dangerous such a facility is. even if the feed producers, farmers, transporters and slaughterhouses behave perfectly correctly, the whole hygiene can be destroyed at the very last moment. however, a compromise is a give and take. the liberal group, to which i belong, will not get exactly what it wants, otherwise we would be in a dictatorship and not in a democratic assembly. i hope that the european meat industry will take the matter to court if the definition is not interpreted as it should be interpreted. we support these recommendations and are very pleased that we have reached this agreement. i would like to say that we who have worked on it have done a qualified and diligent job in making food safer. i'd also like to mention corbey and whitehead. we may have been the most diligent in these matters. thank you for your cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we consider the european commission's proposals in this area to be totally unacceptable. the starting point of the proposal seems to have been that it would be about goods to be transported as efficiently as possible in an internal market. this premise is wrong. rather, it must be assumed that they are animals, that is, sentient beings. it is this understanding which is the very basis of the rules to be adopted. in the nordic green left we welcome the progress made by the committee. however, we believe that in several areas further progress could be made. we will vote in favour of the right of the member states to introduce and maintain national rules which are stricter than the eu rules in this area. this is not just about transport times. we are in favour of introducing an absolute maximum time limit of eight hours for transport and that this time limit should not be circumvented by rest periods in transport vehicles. the rules in the commission's proposal concerning the space in transport vehicles are inadequate and need to be improved. we believe that the same rules should apply to all types of transport, whether it is transport to a slaughterhouse or to be re-compensated elsewhere. strict rules on this point are beneficial, first of all, for the welfare of the animals, but also because they will favour local slaughterhouses and the development of mobile slaughterhouses. i would like to say a few words about the eu's export subsidies for exports of live animals from the union. large sums are currently being spent on this export aid. this practice is completely indefensible. it is a direct support for the widespread abuse of animals, with very long transport times. it is quite clear that there are major problems of abuse and direct money laundering in this sector. budgetary control is very weak in this area. there is no need for reforms in this area. the refunds on exports of live animals from the union should instead be abolished completely, as soon as possible completely.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the council, commissioner patten! the nightmare in the middle east seems to never end. my group, like everyone else, feels enormous frustration and discouragement at the fact that we cannot do more to find a solution to this bloody conflict, which is causing so much suffering. we talk a lot about terrorism these days, and it is clear that nothing would mean more in the fight against terrorism than peace in the middle east. the situation there is a source of enormous frustration and fanaticism, and it fosters in young people a sense of hopelessness and despair that creates a breeding ground for recruiting even very young suicide bombers. two states recognized by each other, democratic, living side by side, would naturally have a tremendously positive impact on the stability of the entire region. plans, projects, conferences and new initiatives - it seems we have tried everything. there's no shortage of creativity when it comes to the middle east. we don't need any more initiative. we need political will, the will to really sit down and negotiate and achieve peace. unfortunately, there is no indication that the leaders of today, whether in israel or in palestine, have this will. the liberal group condemns the murder of sheik yassin. it's against international law. precision killing may seem logical from a military standpoint, but it's the worst of diplomatic means. yassin had heinous crimes on his conscience. he has never recognized israel's right to exist. in every way, he was a vile terrorist. we still cannot accept this kind of killing. you have to be able to make higher demands on a democratic state like israel. hamas now has another martyr and thousands of people burning with revenge. the palestinian leadership must therefore demonstrate unprecedented strength and leadership to prevent a new spiral of violence. arafat must make it clear that hamas does not set the agenda. the liberal group has no words to condemn the suicide bombers. this unplanned killing of civilians, innocent children, women and men paralyses the israeli people and makes the smallest matter, the smallest social excursion, something that is associated with mortal danger. the recruitment of increasingly young teenagers and children as suicide bombers is the most heinous form of terrorism and can never be explained or excused. israel and palestine must return to the negotiating table to the quartet road map. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council and commissioner patten for their work in bringing this about. we must put an end to the violence and the palestinian authority must recognize israel's right to exist once and for all. israel, for its part, must stop building the security wall, which is condemned by the whole world. walls can never be the answer. the same applies to the announced withdrawal from gaza, which was promised earlier. peace in the middle east, a peaceful iraq, where i hope the un can play a greater role, would be a very great step forward and would be of enormous importance for the reform process in the whole region. if we succeed, as outlined in the proposal which has now been adopted, in integrating these countries into a large and dense network of trade and cooperation, it would be a huge step forward for the eu. the collapse of the arab league is tragic, but there is hope there, and we must take note of it, that human rights and democracy are still mentioned. finally, mr president, i would just like to raise another matter which concerns the liberal group, and that is the unrest in syria, where hundreds of kurds have been killed recently. many are in prison, some reports of torture by this group, following the riots a week ago. i hope that the council and the commission can increase the pressure on syria to put an end to this killing.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is, of course, good that the european council condemns israel's unlawful execution of hamas leader sheik yassin. but why only words, why only pious wishes, as general morillon said. why not go from words to action? the eu has concrete and unique opportunities to punish israel through the association agreement. in may 2002, we in the european parliament already considered that the scale of israeli human rights violations was too great and called for the suspension of the association agreement. why does the council not listen to parliament? the european commission has also expressed its views in the same vein as parliament. at the last association council, the commission made a long list of israel's violations of human rights and un resolutions. the commission then warned that the eu would then reconsider its stance if no improvement was made. it is also a matter of pure commercial policy. in a letter to all importers of israeli goods in the eu, the commission has found that israel is cheating on origin labelling by sending goods from illegal jewish settlements in occupied palestinian territory to the eu with the designation of origin 'israel'. such a circumvention of the rules of the trade agreement is sufficient to suspend the association agreement. why all these words, why no action? in addition, we know that israel has nuclear weapons and probably other weapons of mass destruction, say the experts. israel may have it, apparently, but when others do the same, they're bombed back to the stone age. why is there no action against israel? how can there be a peaceful world order based on law and justice if some lawbreakers, especially if they are arab muslims, are punished severely, while another lawbreaker, israel, seems to be able to do anything and everything and we just keep repeating the same debate year after year after year without anything happening? the least that can be asked is that we terminate the association agreement, suspend it, as the european parliament has requested.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a lasting peace in the middle east can only be achieved through serious negotiations and by respecting international law. building walls and new settlements in occupied territory does not contribute to peace. peace will never be achieved by acts of terror, neither by israel nor by the palestinians. no acts of terrorism are acceptable. the murder of sheik yassin, ordered by the israeli government, is an act of terrorism and a violation of international law. it must be condemned. it is clear that israel has violated the association agreement. the eu must not accept this. a solution to the conflict requires an increased active participation by the eu and the un, including in the form of peacekeeping troops, increased support for the palestinian people, but also a clear political message. sharon has made it clear that he intends to order the execution of more palestinian leaders. if the israeli government does not immediately abandon such plans, the agreement with israel must be terminated. agreements must be respected by both parties. more leniency towards israel and the israeli government is not helping israel.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by saying that i am sorry that i was late for the debate and that i was not able to hear the rapporteur's introduction. i am so sorry about that, but the debate got off the rails a little earlier than planned. we have chosen to accept the compromise that has been agreed. we think it is reasonable, although we would have liked to go further in some areas, for example as regards the content of article 17. we have chosen to accept the compromise. as far as the active and intelligent materials are concerned, we are quite skeptical. we nevertheless consider the compromise as a whole to be a good one, as it represents a clear improvement on the original proposal. it's a good step along the way. finally, i would like to emphasize that we consider traceability to be very important.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i may have a certain ability to look like a very gorgeous mother. i am very much out in the world and i can verify that there is genuine anxiety and fear among our constituents - the citizens we represent. people are scared. for example, they have been afraid of what is in the food, of mad cow disease, of additives and of pesticide residues. we have indeed taken a holistic approach from the parliament, the commission and the council, and today we may have the final pieces of the puzzle in place as far as food safety is concerned. we have a comprehensive and good legislation today. there is also a fear of chemicals of all kinds. i would like to commend the commissioner for working on a comprehensive approach to the use of chemicals in europe, which may serve as a model for the rest of the world. these are things that have been started. air pollution and climate change have also been addressed. the evening press, the cheap newspapers, in europe are now too often dealing with the fear of radiation - lately from mobile phones and their antennas. there's so much that's unknown, there's so much to be afraid of. i have inherited this report and did not write it myself. i think it's a little too broad, maybe a little too structured. it is important to have a holistic view, so that everything is not divided into small pieces. it's crucial that we get a kind of comprehensive picture of the fears, the problems, of what we can prove and what we can't prove and what we need to know more about. then we can decide how to combat, organize and take strategic action to deal with the problems that undoubtedly exist. i have tried to bring in a somewhat controversial aspect, namely that the individual citizen must have access to so much information that he can make the greatest possible choice about his lifestyle, his diet, his exercise, his laundry - yes, everything we do and touch - and take responsibility for his health and that of his family. the health problems of today are such that it is not just political decisions that are at stake, but citizens must have the greatest possible knowledge. to make active, informed choices, one must have access to information that is clear, understandable, and where the message is relatively easy to understand. i've removed the fact that allergies are definitely associated with traffic problems. i think that is an impact assessment that does not really have scientific backing. of course, a person with respiratory problems or allergies is very much affected by bad air or air pollution. however, as i have a family history of lung disease, i can point out that the use of perfume, for example, is a problem at least as serious for an allergic person. the causes of the prevalence of childhood allergies in modern times may also be sought in contexts other than mere environmental factors. there may be biological factors. mr president, i would like to thank you. this was my last speech here in the european parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have a joint debate here tonight on all three pillars of the aarhus convention. i welcome that debate and i also welcome the commission's proposal for a directive. by signing the aarhus convention, the community has shown its willingness to improve environmental legislation and also to involve the public in environmental decision-making in a completely new way. a future ratification would effectively oblige the community to ensure that citizens and ngos can enjoy this right in accordance with community law, which is very good. although the community and the member states signed the convention in 1998 and it entered into force in 2001, only a few eu member states have ratified it. it is time for the public and ngos to have access to justice in environmental matters and, of course, to information and participation in the decision-making process, as discussed in the korholab report. this will be of great importance in making environmental policy much more effective in the eu. environmental rules will be better administered and enforced, implementation will be faster and environmental management will be better managed. how can you say that so gallantly? indeed, there are studies showing that environmental legislation has become much stricter in countries where there has been the possibility of bringing environmental cases and testing the application of environmental legislation. there's a direct connection here. the aim of agenda 21, which is also the guiding principle of the commission, is to make the environment the property of the individual, not the public authorities. for the first time, environmental legislation is being linked to human rights, and i think that is a good development. we also have a responsibility to future generations. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection voted in favour of the directive as a minimum framework, allowing member states to go further and have more extensive access to justice. i think that's an excellent suggestion. an environmental issue must apply both to the administration of the authorities and to criminal law, because the aarhus convention does not distinguish between civil and criminal proceedings, and i do not really understand why the commission would want to make that distinction here. we do not agree on some points, and this is clear from the amendments to this directive. i think, for example, that eu legislation should not introduce new and unnecessary restrictions such as those on recognised associations, qualified entities. it would force countries which today have a very generous outlook to impose restrictions. i cannot therefore accept the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group to which mr korhola referred. this applies in particular to articles 8 and 9 and sets out new criteria and procedures which are not at all in the aarhus convention. i think that would create new obstacles, and i do not see why we should have to do that. nor do i understand why geographical and temporal limitations or restrictions, which are also provided for in articles 8 and 5, should be adopted in relation to the competence of the parties. both the commission proposal and amendment no 32 by the ppe-de group, for example, require that one must be active in a given area in order to have access to documents or to a court. i think this is completely wrong, because environmental issues look very different today. a small local environmental organisation, for example, might need expert help from an international organisation, so i think this is restrictive. i think that it is enough to be an independent, non-profit-making legal person to be able to bring an action for the protection of the environment and health. it is also very important that the definition of environmental legislation should cover all policy areas and not just article 175, to which this proposal refers. all environmental legislation relating to article 95 should of course also be eligible. finally, i would just like to mention something about the costs. i have put forward proposals that costs should not be an obstacle to bringing legal proceedings. the public must be given the help and support they need. in the case of actions in the public interest, the cost should not be an obstacle. you have to be very generous here. i therefore hope that the members will vote in favour of the proposals i have examined, so that we can achieve good legislation which does not create new obstacles but, on the contrary, does what we want to do, namely improve environmental legislation in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the aarhus convention is of great importance. in practice, it strengthens the capacity of citizens to have both visibility and effective influence on decisions on environmental issues that directly affect them. i should like to begin by commenting on the part of the implementation which concerns the schörling report on judicial review in environmental matters. a proposal has been put forward to reject the report in its present form, and mr thors has just spoken of this. i myself have some difficulty in understanding the reasons for rejecting this report. the european union is a signatory to this convention. it should then reasonably have an obligation to ensure, through its regulatory framework, that the convention is also implemented. i suppose that's a reasonable consequence of signing it. i believe that this will be particularly important when the union is enlarged by ten new members. it is important to involve the new member states so that they can achieve with us what is provided for in the convention itself. it is also quite clear from the report that it does not prevent any country from having more progressive legislation. each country is free to go further, to extend the rights that exist in other areas. the committee makes this clear in amendments nos 4 and 5. the point is that the report is concerned with the environment. this is perhaps the part of eu law that is least respected, given the number of cases before the court. i think that the proposal adopted in committee could be improved on a few points. first, it should be extended to all decisions having an impact on the environment, not just those taken on the basis of article 175 of the treaty. secondly, it is important not to specify in detail how the concept of environmental organisation is to be defined. it can hardly be the eu's job to do that. it is also important not to provide for any limitation as to who may bring an action. i shall devote the last few seconds of my speaking time to the korhola report. it is important that as much legislation as possible be covered by this report. it is important that institutions such as the european investment bank, which is a major financial actor, should also be covered by the scope of application, so that they must comply with the obligations laid down in the report. i also think it is very important to give the public a fair hearing so that they are covered by this framework.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating you on the result that has been achieved. i know that it was very difficult to get this very important directive into effect. at any rate, we now have a proposal to be voted on tomorrow, and i and the verts/ale group will be voting in favour of it. that doesn't mean we're completely satisfied with the outcome. the polluter pays principle is excellent. it is also good that we should have had a harmonised system of liability to prevent environmental damage and to ensure that damage that has already occurred is remedied. as toine manders said, europe was not quite ready for it. parts of europe, at least, may not have been ready for it. there were quite a few of us who wanted a more harmonized system, and we could have gone a little further than we have now. after the first treatment, we were very satisfied, but after the second treatment, we were not so satisfied anymore. this is a compromise we have to live with, and it is good that something has been achieved. the proposal that the commission should report after six years on the compulsory financial security systems is extremely important for the functioning of this system. it is a way of achieving a compromise at the final stage a statement by the commission making it clear that it intends to fulfil these obligations under the compromise between parliament and the council. i am not sure that such a statement is binding, but i hope it is so that we do not drag out the time over these six years. i hope that is true. perhaps margot wallström could say something about the legal status of this type of statement.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. before going into the details of this proposal and of parliament's proposals for changes and improvements, i would like to recall the background to this directive. the triggering factors were the two major environmental disasters in spain and romania, which the commissioner also mentioned. we should know that the problem of collapsing mine dams is something that occurs almost every year in different parts of the world, including the eu. at the same time, we can say that there is a stealthy environmental disaster in progress, which consists of old mining waste, of which we often know very little, leaking into nature, especially heavy metals. overall, this is perhaps a much bigger environmental problem than the mining that is currently taking place. at the same time, eu legislation in this area has not worked well, because the existing waste directives, which today partly concern mining waste, are not working and are not adapted to this type of industrial production. it is therefore clear that a new directive is needed in this area. we would therefore like to thank the commission for the proposal. it has many advantages, for example in terms of dust safety and in terms of effectively banning the high cyanide method, as was the case in romania. that method will be made impossible in the future by this directive. i would also like to see more improvements from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs and as rapporteur. firstly, it is important that this covers all relevant types of waste. we have therefore chosen to remove some exemptions, for example for waste from exploration. i also think it is important that it covers waste that is shipped away from the nearest place of production. i am particularly grateful that we have been able to agree on a definition which i think works well, because the question of definition has been a bit complicated in this case. there is now agreement within the political groups. i would also like to mention the inert non-hazardous waste. it is important to recognize that even waste that is not hazardous in itself and in chemical terms can cause major environmental problems. it can do so if it is stored improperly, if it is allowed to destroy water resources, or if soils are fertilized. it is important that this waste also be covered by rules requiring its recovery and proper management. here i think that the decision taken by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs does not go far enough, and i have therefore tabled amendment no 98 which would correct this as i see it. one of the most important points in this report concerns historical waste, which is perhaps the greatest environmental problem of all. it is not enough to simply take stock, you must also make sure that you actually do something about it, otherwise you are only halfway to doing something about the environmental problems. i think it is important to link this to the proposals in the report to also be able to use funds from the structural funds to really address this. it will be an opportunity, not least for the new member states, to tackle these rather significant environmental problems. i also think that this should be seen as an opportunity for new technologies and for the research and development that exists in the eu today and that in part already exists and that, above all, can become world leaders in this field. as regards the financial guarantees from the companies, we have again chosen to make a compromise between the political groups before the first reading. this means that we are leaving a great deal of national freedom to design these economic guarantees. this is good, since systems already exist in many countries. at the same time, this must be approved by the commission so that the guarantees meet the requirements, which is reasonable. as regards the technical solutions to the various regulations contained in the proposal, my aim as rapporteur has been not to go into technical details and to lock these proposals in various technical solutions. this would impede adaptation to technological progress. i too think that is the result we have achieved. another point i would like to make is that much of the most irresponsible mining globally is taking place in the poorest countries. we have received a letter in the report stating that, in so far as eu funding is used, including through the european investment bank, for example, the requirements of the directive must be met as a condition for support for mining projects. another point i have chosen to emphasize is the monitoring of the dams. even if design requirements are set, the shortcomings often consist in the fact that the ponds are not adapted later and that they are not monitored as needed if the production conditions change. we have seen that in these accidents. another important point is that we want planning for the closure phase to be done from the outset. on the whole, i think that the proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a significant reinforcement of the commission's work, but it is also fully in line with its work. i hope that through these proposals we can tackle the basic problems i mentioned at the beginning: avoiding the big dams, not including the environmental toxins that are leaking into nature today and getting legislation in this area that actually works and is comprehensive. the conditions for that are now in place. i would like to take two seconds to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the commission's heads of department for their good cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is, of course, a tragedy that it will take an act of terrorism of the kind that struck madrid for the leaders of europe to come together. despite the fact that the ugly face of terrorism has been revealed in several member states in the past, we may have lived for a long time in the naive belief that these really big attacks could never happen to us. we now realise that the fight must be waged globally but also through intensified european cooperation. it was therefore good that many important steps were taken at the weekend summit, even if they are not enough. we must create much better conditions for coordination of intelligence services and also eventually create a kind of european fbi which is also operational. where villains and criminals are transnational, the long arm of the law must be transnational. the most important work in the fight against terrorism, however, is work for peace and development, and here the eu can do a lot. a coherent foreign policy is an important tool. it is therefore very important that the convention's proposals in this area be adopted. i would like to thank the presidency for the work you are doing in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the spring meeting each year was to be devoted to economic and social issues, to growth and development. it was very little this year. i do not deny that there were important subjects to discuss, but i would like to protest against the fact that economic and social development was almost completely neglected. the lisbon process is not working at all as it was intended and the problems are great. unemployment is high, investment is not coming in, and so on and so forth. of course, strong policy efforts would be needed in the member states, as this is where economic policy must be concretely formulated. instead, the only guidelines that come from europe with real force are the stability pact, which, on the contrary, imposes a straitjacket on them. i fully share romano prodi's view that the stability pact is idiotic. it is time to do something about it and to give a little more dynamism to economic development in europe. the social dimension of the lisbon process is also not functioning as it should. everyone talks about lifelong learning, but in reality the member states are not investing in education at all. they're cutting back. there's a real need for something, and the voters are responding. we see in germany and france how the electorate reacts to economic and social policies which are now being allowed to run their own course.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! the events in madrid have put the fight against crime and terrorism at the top of the european agenda. it is a european effort of a new dimension that is needed. european leaders should have realised long before the madrid attack, and preferably before the treaty of amsterdam, that one of their most important political responsibilities is to guarantee the union's external and internal security. the achievement of sufficiently effective and multifaceted measures requires respect for fundamental rights, but also democratic transparency and control. otherwise, the measures with direct effect on citizens risk becoming too weak and too weakly anchored. this is especially true of intelligence. eu leaders should have given the eu more real powers to tackle terrorism and crossborder crime long before it is now forced into panic measures. years of inactivity are reflected in the programme which the irish presidency is now setting before us in an exemplary manner, but the issues deserve a long-term approach. the stark reality is that eu leaders should have shown european political leadership long before. the commission is the key actor. it would be natural to build on the expertise we already have in the commission and to complement it with a commissioner who fills the gap that the expanded fight against terrorism risks creating in the basic protection of citizens, not least the protection of privacy. the crisis package is not enough to combat terrorism; long-term action on a community basis is needed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. counterterrorism and protecting privacy are not mutually exclusive. the long-term and effective fight against terrorism requires respect for fundamental rights. the us requirements have put airlines in an impossible situation, as the requirements are a violation of eu privacy protection or are a hindrance to aviation. the commission has tried to find a solution in an exemplary manner. we therefore do not support the demands in the resolution that the commission should withdraw the proposal. the proposal improves the present situation but still suffers from serious shortcomings. the data protection officers of the member states and the eu, the article 29 group, point to the worrying lack of data protection. the proposal requires a thorough judicial review, which is why we support the case being examined by the court of justice. an immediate switch from the 'pull' to the 'push' system is necessary to correct the lack of data protection. the conditions for a satisfactory agreement are that passengers are guaranteed information on what data is being transferred to the us authorities and that passengers are in practice able to voluntarily agree to such transfer of personal and financial data and to review the data recorded.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the fight against terrorism must be global and preventive, but it must always be balanced against respect for the privacy of the individual. the european parliament voted today on an eu-us agreement on the transfer of data not selected on a clear basis, from passenger lists to us customs and border control authorities. we object to the extent of the pnr data to which the united states will have access, the number of authorities that have access to it, the intended use of the data, the lack of appeal for those who are denied entry to the united states on the basis of the pnr data and the direct access of the united states to the data without having to ask for it. there is currently no legal basis in the eu for using the commercial data in pnr for the protection of public security. we therefore propose instead that a genuine international agreement be drawn up between the eu and the usa, which clearly lays down objectives, data, guarantees and responsibilities. the agreement in its present form threatens to undermine the rule of law. that is why we support mrs boogerd-quaak's report and vote against this agreement with the united states.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) terrorism is one of the greatest scourges of our time and must be fought vigorously and effectively at both national and international level. international cooperation in the fight against terrorism must include personal data, in particular in the context of aviation, in order to be effective. we support the collection and transfer of data on air passengers to the us authorities, but this must be done on the basis of clear legal rules (in the us and europe), be proportionate to the objective and there must be clear rules on what data is collected. this must not be done automatically (the so-called 'pull' system). the authorities that have access to the data must be clearly identified and the period for which the data are stored must be clearly specified. the responsibility of airlines towards passengers must be established and passengers must be able to appeal to an independent body. it is regrettable that personal data of european passengers are being transferred to the united states without a legal basis, as this is a violation of the protection of privacy. we must do something about these irregularities. the commission should therefore withdraw the proposal and submit a new legislative proposal which takes particular account of the above points. only legislation of this kind can reconcile the fight against terrorism with respect for privacy and fundamental rights. we have voted in favour of paragraphs 1 and 10 of the motion for a resolution (adopted by 226 votes to 203 and 233 to 207).
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of health and safety at work. we moderates voted against the above report because we do not believe that local environmental issues - in this case, for example, indoor air quality and passive smoking - belong at eu level. the principle of subsidiarity should also be applied to decisions on the protection of local water resources.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking alima boumediene-thiery for her excellent work on an important report. what is the situation in the eu-15, which is shaping a union based on the equal value of human beings, humanism, tolerance and human dignity? i think that most of us here can see the cracks in the european union's façade. this is our union: refugees are abused, marginalized and risk losing their lives on their way to a better life in europe. an important step towards a common refugee policy was taken yesterday, as the minister said, but it has taken a long time and the proposals are not far enough. 800,000 women and children are bought and sold as commodities in a despicable sex trade. women are being gender-disfigured, at risk of forced marriage and subjected to daily violence simply because they are women. freedom of the media and of expression is restricted. homosexuals are discriminated against. anti-semitism is on the rise, and jews are hearing the same slogans that were heard across europe in the 1930s. the report presented today is a clear example of hatred and violence. racism and intolerance against immigrants are spreading. millions of immigrants are excluded from society. muslims are being harassed. islamic fundamentalism is growing strong in the suburbs of our cities. yes, it is in our union that the lives of 190 ordinary spaniards ended on a perfectly ordinary day on their way to work. we can say that freedom has never been stronger than this spring, when europe is uniting and healing old wounds, but at the same time we know that our eu-15 is carrying many shortcomings into the new eu on 1 may 2004. i would like to conclude by saying that it is unfortunate that almost all member states are imposing restrictions on the new member states. this could have been avoided by eu leaders acting together, by being better prepared and adapting the rules in time. many of our new friends are rightly disappointed by this. i would like to conclude by saying that the eldr group is asking the house to support two amendments on the european arrest warrant and the french veil ban.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is the second time today that we've discussed mining. this morning it was jonas sjöstedt's report and now the mining industry is indirectly affected by this resolution. i agree with both minister roche and commissioner vitorino that the energy and mining industries are of great importance to the economies of many poor countries. we also know that this type of industrial activity is often carried out in ways which have not directly benefited the poor majority, which have often led to serious damage to the environment and which have also unfortunately led to the fact that the proceeds from the concessions granted have mainly ended up in the pockets of individual ministers and not in the treasury, where they could have contributed to the development of the countries. the study to which we refer here is interesting and important. it shows the opportunities for these industries, but also the risks of not being surrounded by social, environmental and human rights criteria. the consequences are often increased poverty and environmental destruction. we met mr. salim a few weeks ago when he was passing through. he gave a large number of examples of the difficulties faced by the local population in different project areas: forced displacement, environmental damage, etc. it is important that the world bank addresses the criticisms made in the study and i note that both the president of the council and the commission agree with many of the recommendations. it is very important that the eu member states, whose governments make up a large part of the bank's board of directors, coordinate their activities in this area and ensure that the bank follows up the recommendations. i believe that the presidency can play a very important role here. if it is important for the world bank to change its mind, it is of course equally important for a number of other financial institutions to change their minds. vitorino referred to the fact that a certain agreement has been reached on the operation of the export credit boards. yes, but so far it's very thin. we need much stricter criteria for their activities, especially with reference to social, environmental and climate contexts. let me give you an example. between 1994 and 2000, the export credit boards in our oecd countries guaranteed investments in new energy production worth about $100 billion. all that activity was fossil-based. not a cent went to energy efficiency or renewable energy. a series of measures are required. without elevating this report and this study to the level of absolute truth, they are nevertheless a good basis for driving and sharpening policy in relation to both poverty issues and sustainable development.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. if you study agriculture in turkey, you find that it is rather poorly developed. there are almost twice as many farmers in turkey as in the eu-15 as a whole. almost half of the workforce in turkey is engaged in agriculture. when turkey becomes a member of the eu, the eu will have a very important task to play in the development of turkish agriculture. the most difficult task is probably to achieve rural development without creating social problems which could otherwise become very serious when agriculture must necessarily be depopulated and people must find other employment. there have been many positive developments in turkey in recent years. in 2000, for example, a new agricultural policy was introduced, which makes it easier for turkey to approach the european union in this area. at the same time, we are at an early stage in discussing membership and it is difficult to make an accurate assessment. i would like to say that agriculture is probably not the biggest problem in turkey. we have similar problems in countries like romania and bulgaria. there are other issues that pose greater problems, such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is important that we all agree that when the copenhagen criteria are met, then it is ok. then we will start negotiations, and then it will be possible for turkey to become a member. i personally think it would be useful to have a muslim but secularised country as a member of the union, as a bridge between the cultures of europe and the arab world. i know that there are parties and groups in this parliament who do not want turkey to become a member. i think it is important that our majority declare that we welcome turkey, but we must put pressure on it to carry out the reforms that are necessary before it can become a member.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a modern form of colonialism. we need a real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change of approach to our relations with the poor countries. we have therefore voted against the report.
- (sv) the swedish christian democrats want the question of the proposed constitution for europe to be resolved in a way that meets the following criteria: (1) that the eu does not have the right to tax our incomes and pensions; (2) that the rotating presidency of the council continues and that no new, centralistic office of eu president is created; (3) that europe's biblical and judeo-christian heritage is recognised in the preamble as a historical fact with regard to our spiritual heritage, in the same way that humanism is specified as the only named philosophical current; (4) that article 51 is maintained with its content, that the eu must conduct a regular dialogue with churches and communities and other religious associations; (5) that each member state has the right to a commissioner with full voting rights; (6) that defence issues are also dealt with in the future on the basis of unanimity on the principle of unanimity; (7) that the rubber clauses on the mechanism of transition pass. it is proposed that they should give the heads of state or government in the council the right to extend the eu's legislative powers by unanimity at the expense of national parliaments and to abandon the right of veto/unanimity in favour of majority decisions - without requiring the approval of national parliaments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the death penalty is not used in the member states. this is a matter for each country to decide. paragraph 147: we believe that it is for the member states to decide whether they need to make use of transitional rules or not. many member states have opted for transitional arrangements to allow time to prepare for a smooth transition to full freedom of movement. we believe it is important that the transitional rules should be as short as possible.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) fundamental rights in the european union are even more important now that we are in just a few weeks' time reuniting eastern and western europe. we now need even more a common basis of values for the new enlarged union. we want to create a union based on equality of men, humanism, tolerance and human dignity. we have chosen to vote neither for nor against the partnership and rights of different-sex and same-sex couples in the context of intra-eu adoption. the liberal people's party has always supported the idea that everyone should be able to apply for adoption, regardless of sexual orientation or marital status. all adoption decisions must be based on the principle of the best interests of the child. we are therefore not opposed to the possibility of heterosexual or homosexual couples being tried in adoption cases. we are not in favour of a european union policy on the environment. we also believe that active euthanasia should be a matter for each member state to decide for itself. on the contrary, we have supported the eu's push for women to have access to safe and legal abortions, necessary contraceptives and affordable services in the field of reproductive and sexual health and sexuality education.
in writing. - (sv) i voted against this report today by a majority (184 votes against, 177 votes in favour and 13 abstentions). we european christian democrats in the ppe-de group have done this massively because we believe that the report should have concentrated on assessing how member states have respected human rights on the basis of the eu's charter of fundamental rights. unfortunately, that was not the case. for example, in the same paragraph there are references to torture, which must of course be unequivocally condemned, and to the introduction of assisted dying, which is neither a european union issue nor a human rights issue. the report as a whole contains a number of issues which are outside the eu's competence and are not covered by the charter, such as amending national laws on marriage between a man and a woman and the concept of the family itself, or that the elimination of life by means of abortion should be covered by the concept of human rights. the christian democrats of europe are naturally opposed to this.
the european parliament has today voted on a report on the human rights situation in europe. the report should have concentrated on assessing how member states have respected human rights on the basis of the eu charter of fundamental rights. unfortunately, that was not the case. the report is equally beautifully and poorly worded, as is exemplified by the fact that in the same paragraph there are references to torture, which must of course be unequivocally condemned, and to euthanasia, which is not a european issue and therefore not included in the human rights. the report as a whole contains a number of issues which are outside the eu's competence and are not covered by the charter. however, the report contains several important issues such as human trafficking, women's rights, asylum policy and legal security issues, which i will support in and of itself. but the overall assessment of the report is that i have chosen to vote neither for nor against in the final vote.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i have neither voted for nor against the final vote. the report was adopted by 211 votes in favour, 84 against and 46 abstentions. turkey must end its 30-year occupation of cyprus and recognize the genocide of the christian minorities of armenians and syrian-assyrian-chaldeans in 1915-1918, which claimed the lives of 1.5 million people. the eu as a peace project is undermined if turkey is allowed to open eu membership negotiations in a situation where it remains an occupying power in the north of the new eu member state of cyprus. member states of the eu do not occupy each other! historical wrongs must be acknowledged in order to alleviate the suffering and grief of the minority peoples affected and to create the conditions for reconciliation. only then can we face a new future. germany would never have been a democracy or a member of the european union if it had denied the holocaust, the genocide of the jews during the second world war. turkey has much to learn from this.
the rapporteur. thank you, mr president! i understand that the conference of presidents has decided to withdraw this report, which we have previously discussed in the committee on women's rights. this was done at the request of the pse and the ppe, which had made the dishonest argument that the report should be referred back to committee. the committee has had its last meeting and, since i am not running again, deportation would mean the death of this own-initiative report. the report deals with the demand side of the issue, including trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. if this parliament does not discuss the report and put that part in its context, i do not see why we should discuss so-called sexual exploitation at all. i therefore ask that the report be put back on the agenda as originally planned under rule 111 of the rules of procedure.
commission. mr president, the commission very much welcomes this debate on company law and corporate governance and the action plan connected therewith – an action plan adopted by the commission almost one year ago. we broadly support the content of the resolution which has been submitted to parliament. we very much thank mrs ghilardotti for the quality of her report. this action plan is based on the firm belief that a self-regulatory market approach, based solely on non-binding recommendations, is clearly not always sufficient to guarantee the adoption of sound corporate governance practices. only if there a number of tailored rules will markets play their disciplining role and ensure diligent business conduct. this is why, in view of the growing integration of european capital markets, a common approach should be adopted at eu level, laying down a few essential rules and adequate coordination of corporate governance codes. recent scandals have therefore strengthened the commission's determination to implement its action plan. my services are actively working in five areas to have proposals ready, where possible, later this year. the five areas are as follows: first, the role of non-executive directors; second, the remuneration of directors; third, the responsibility of directors for company accounts; fourth, the full disclosure of intra-group relations and transactions with related parties, including transparency in the company accounts of offshore special purpose vehicles; and fifth, the disclosure of corporate governance practices. the aim is therefore not to re-examine or reconsider the action plan in the light of recent developments, as requested in the motion for resolution; rather, it is to learn from those developments and to take due account of them when preparing the various initiatives that it contains. when implementing the action plan, the commission will also take due account of the interests of the various stakeholders – to which mrs ghilardotti made reference – and, where appropriate, distinguish between listed and non-listed companies and large and small shareholders, as is also requested in the motion for resolution. it is of the utmost importance that we restore trust and confidence in the audit function. i am therefore pleased to see that the rapporteur agrees with the main elements of the reform which i have set out in the proposal for an eighth directive on statutory audit. that should allow us to proceed quickly and, i hope, reach an agreement between the council and parliament in a single reading. i know that the issue of non-audit services delivered to the audited entity is particularly delicate. the commission has published a recommendation on auditor independence which sets out the conditions under which such services are still allowed. we need to see how this recommendation is applied in practice. many member states are in the process of transposing this recommendation into their national law. it would therefore not be appropriate, at this stage, to fundamentally change our approach in that area. however, in our communication of may 2003, we announced our intention to carry out a study that will examine whether further changes in that area are needed. the results of the study will be available next year. at that time, we shall decide whether new initiatives are necessary. in europe, investors need to be better organised and more vocal advocates of corporate change. however, a sound corporate governance framework will not be achieved by the markets simply acting on their own, nor by the introduction of an overly prescriptive legal infrastructure. the challenge we are all facing here is to find the right balance between regulatory and market-based incentives and penalties. we therefore support the broad thrust of this resolution and we are working resolutely along those lines.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the opinion of the itre committee stresses the need for dynamism and flexibility in corporate governance principles. the principle of subsidiarity should be respected in order to allow for national characteristics and traditions in this area, and we should avoid as far as possible a central management of enterprises. we shall not seek to achieve a harmonization of different codes of corporate governance. voting shares between different shares is another example of something that should not be decided at eu level, as it would create problems for smes in some eu countries. european industry needs even more transparency in its management and accounting. this is beneficial for their future capital supply and market position. i note that the rapporteur's views are in part contrary to the opinion of the committee, but i would point out that the opinion was adopted by a large majority and that it is in line with the commission's communication.
commission. madam president, firstly – and you have heard me say this before – we will have to live with the issue of climate change for a very long time – maybe for generations. it will pose a challenge to humanity for generations to come. it is important that the european union should continue to show leadership on this issue. we should continue to demonstrate that we are willing to take action at home and internationally, that we believe that a truly global problem also requires a global solution. we will also have to be cost-efficient. to be credible, we will have to look at the most cost-efficient solutions; this is part of that process, and in doing so we will be able to mobilise all the various groups of stakeholders. this will help us to do so. my thanks for this again go both to the rapporteur and to the whole european parliament. i would like to comment on two points mentioned during the debate. first of all, russia. as has been mentioned, a team of commissioners will be going to russia later this week in order to discuss a number of issues, including many areas of cooperation with russia. we should not wait for russia – that is true – but the 120 countries that have ratified are not waiting; they are actually carrying out actions on the issue of climate change already. however, we should of course keep up the pressure on russia and make it clear to the russians that they hold the key to the entry into force of the kyoto protocol, that what they do is important, and that we are counting on them. therefore we will continue to work on that. the other issue is an important one: the argument about sinks and our position on sinks. again, i am satisfied that our position on sinks is consistent, since in all the negotiations on the kyoto protocol we have remained rather sceptical on sinks – at least until such time as we can monitor and control sinks and count them reliably. that is one of the arguments, the other being the temporary nature of sinks and emission reductions from them. we have also pursued our line in this proposal and i welcome that. these are the arguments. we still have too many uncertainties, and we have to clarify those; but of course they are in the kyoto protocol, and one day i hope that this will also be another opportunity for brazil and other countries. however, as long as we do not have full knowledge, we should be careful. this will be another effective instrument within our climate change policy.
- thank you, commissioner wallström. - i'll see you in a few minutes. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- we've noted this. we will, of course, look into the matter and check the names and we will return tomorrow.
- the next item is the report (a5-0265/2004) by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on batteries and accumulators and used batteries and accumulators.
commission. madam president, i have distributed a list to the secretariat indicating which amendments are acceptable to the commission commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. i will limit myself to commenting on two issues that have been raised during the debate and explain once more why the commission did not propose a ban. as you know, the commission carried out an extended impact assessment in preparing this proposal. it has assessed the sustainability of different policy options, including a substance ban. it is important to recall that in this proposal the commission has maintained a general restriction on the use of mercury in batteries, in line with the existing battery directive. the restrictions in the end-of-life vehicles directive also continue to apply, so the provisions are there. however, on the basis of this impact assessment, a substance ban for other batteries was not chosen for the following reasons: a substance ban can only be considered if viable substitutes exist. at the moment, these substitutes do not exist for all applications. a ban would always be limited in scope and would never be able to cover all hazardous batteries. as we have already heard, a substance ban might not cover cordless power tools, emergency lighting and industrial applications. in fact, a ban would only represent around 16% of the total nickel cadmium battery market and less than 6% of the total lead battery market. a large percentage of these hazardous batteries are currently in use or stored at home. it is estimated that 60% of rechargeable portable batteries are 'hoarded' or stored at home. they would not be covered by the ban and would still risk ending up in the environment. for cadmium batteries, the substitutes have a shorter lifespan and are more expensive, so that would create more waste and extra costs for consumers. these are the main arguments as to why we chose a closed-loop solution. we have proposed this closed-loop system for all batteries. that should ensure that batteries no longer end up in the waste stream but are collected and recycled instead. for industrial nicad batteries the closed-loop system is guaranteed by the proposed ban on landfill and incineration. those are our main arguments. i suppose that this will be debated from now on, but we all seem to agree that it is important to monitor what is going on and find the best solution to make sure that these hazardous substances and batteries do not end up in the waste stream. they must be taken care of. i thank you for your work on this report and for the debate.
- thank you, commissioner wallström. - i'll see you in a few minutes. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0261/2004) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on integrated product policy - life cycle environmental impacts.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. i'm not going to lie. environmental policy has so far been relatively successful in dealing with point emissions from factories, power stations, etc. the situation is different for non-point emissions, i.e. impacts from the consumption of goods and services. the problem we face is that the accumulated pollution in society, not least through our consumption habits, is constantly increasing. the european environment agency has recently shown that the volume of waste in the 15 member states has increased by 15% since 1990. so even though we've reduced pollution and used energy and materials more efficiently, the gains are being eaten up quickly by increased growth. with global gdp expected to triple or quadruple in the next 30 to 40 years, we must do something radical if we are not to be literally drowned in an ever-growing mountain of garbage and pollution. the integrated product policy we are discussing here today offers excellent opportunities to create a framework of incentives to get us to leave behind production and consumption patterns. these are characterised by a linear flow of waste and wear approach in favour of resource efficiency, waste minimisation, controlled use of hazardous substances and a strengthening of the natural resource base. however, for this to happen, the integrated product policy must be based on a long-term vision of how to change our industrial production model. i mean, what we've learned is that it's not enough to pollute a little less. we must strive for production and consumption patterns that are pure in themselves. the advantage of an integrated product policy is that it is a holistic approach, i.e. it addresses the entire product chain, from the extraction of raw materials through product design and the production phase itself to the stage when the product has been used up. the commission's proposal has a number of good points, but it is still not proactive enough. it seems that the commission has partly abandoned the integrated product policy in favour of the thematic strategies. i don't see it as an either or without as a both. we need the thematic strategies, but we also need an integrated product policy framework to keep the policy together and to be a driving force in the implementation itself. in general, environmental policy, and energy policy too, must be much more coherent and consistent. we have a plethora of directives and regulations today, but too little attention is paid to the whole. the commission's proposal calls for the use of voluntary methods as far as possible. emas and iso are of course good, but research shows that they are not enough. the voluntary nature of the commission's tapping is also linked to market forces, i.e. the operation of the market. however, as environmental costs are rarely factored into prices, the market is not functioning satisfactorily. companies must be given direct incentives, i.e. be able to make money from developing environmentally friendly products. this is rare today, and how can the market help? the commission's communication refers to improving consumer information. that is good, but it is naive to think that better labelling and better environmental information will solve this problem. i have been involved in developing eco-labels in the nordic countries and i know how difficult it is to achieve a wide impact. in my view, we need a dynamic framework for integrated product policy which provides guidelines for the policy as a whole and which supports the thematic strategies. this framework should be characterised by a clear vision which includes the following: first, a systems approach where life cycle thinking is the very basis. secondly, a deeper understanding of how nature and the ecosystem work in order to adapt the product and business models of companies to biological principles. thirdly, the optimisation of the product design itself by choosing materials with the least possible environmental impact. fourthly, the principle that products which have been used up must be separated into their constituent parts and reused, or, alternatively, in the case of biodegradable materials, incorporated into the natural cycle. finally, the information revolution should be exploited to the fullest to promote greater efficiency in the use of energy, materials and dematerialisation. particularly important is to be aware of the opportunities offered by learning from nature and copying nature. i don't have time to go into it now, but there are a number of examples where companies today are taking advantage of these principles and are producing completely clean solutions and making money on top of it. madam president, during the debate in committee the commission representative said that the primary focus was not on a framework directive. i'm sorry about this. i am convinced that this is necessary and i hope that the commission, under the leadership of mrs wallström, will reflect on this and realise that it is important in the long term to create a horizontal policy framework which will help in the overall environmental work.
the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the parliament's draft report supports a life-cycle approach and provides a good guide for how the commission will develop the integrated product policy in the coming years. we've put a lot of effort into finding a name that's better and that can tell the unemployed what this is about. as long as it's an important mission. i really appreciate the efforts behind this report, in particular the work done by the rapporteur, mr anders wijkman. in the commission's communication we stressed the need to show how this could work in practice and we also said that we wanted to use two methods for this. firstly, to carry out a couple of pilot projects which bring together different actors to discuss and, ideally, also implement measures to reduce the environmental impact of these particular products. secondly, we are in the process of drawing up a european list of products with the greatest potential for environmental improvement. such a list can help us to focus our efforts on the most important products. the report contains many interesting insights. let me comment on a few of them, which are important and show the link between the thematic strategies and this proposal, which the rapporteur also mentioned. i would also like to describe my view of the link between the integrated product policy and the other initiatives mentioned in the report, in particular the two thematic strategies: the strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and the strategy for waste prevention and recycling. my long-term vision for these three areas is actually quite straightforward. i believe that the natural resources strategy should address the general problems of how to break the link between economic growth and environmental impact. the strategy should set out what is to be done to achieve this decoupling and set general objectives on how to protect natural resources against overexploitation and pollution. integrated product policy then aims to transform these resource-oriented objectives - remember that natural resources provide us with minerals, food, clean air and water - into concrete actions to reduce the environmental impact of products and services while creating business opportunities. it does not matter that we start to develop an integrated product policy even before the resource strategy is completed. as we have said in our proposal, we can do a lot already. i also believe that the strategy on waste and recycling should be more clearly focused on the environmental and market problems that arise in that part of the life cycle. it does not mean that the whole life cycle of products is forgotten. on the contrary, the measures taken here must take account of the environmental impact throughout the life cycle of the product, through the application of an integrated product policy. i therefore also do not think that integrated product policy should include resource-based objectives. i think they fit better into the resource strategy and i also do not think that in integrated product policy one should advocate the use of certain materials, whether they are bio-based materials, composites or other, because then one risks ignoring the life cycle perspective. secondly, i would like to emphasize that i do not think this is the right time to make a framework directive on integrated product policy. aside from the question of what can realistically be included in such a directive - it should cover a very large number of tools and concepts while being able to monitor compliance - i simply think it is too early to decide whether such a framework directive is necessary. as impatient as we are, i think we have to wait a little and see how the various players will put an integrated product policy into practice. this applies to industry, governments and consumers alike. if they do not take advantage of the opportunities it offers, we can consider a less voluntary approach, but i think it is too early to draw conclusions on that today. in the course of 2007, the commission will review the two points i have mentioned and the whole of the integrated product policy. if it proves necessary, we will make changes. some examples could be to put more emphasis on services, to advocate a framework directive or to change the integrated product policy as a result of the discussions on the thematic strategies. i think that the rapporteur has made a number of important points in his speech which should definitely guide our thinking more broadly in the future.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0234/2004) by the committee on employment and social affairs, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of social security systems (15577/6/2003 - c5-0043/2004 - 1998/0360 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr lambert).
the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that substantial progress has been made in both the council and parliament on this proposal and that we are now reaching the final stage of adoption. the aim of formal approval by the council and parliament before 1 may is of the utmost importance for a number of reasons. most importantly, it will send a strong message to the citizens of both the current and the new member states, showing that the european union has both the will and the capacity to set the right conditions for genuine free movement of persons, the cornerstone of which is social security coordination. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lambert, on her really excellent report on such a technically difficult subject as the coordination of social security systems. i would also like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs for its work. as you know, the european commission, in the amended proposal it submitted last october, has taken account in whole or in part of most of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading. the two amendments at second reading clearly improve the quality of the text and can therefore be accepted in their entirety by the commission. i can also assure you that the commission is able to accept some of the other concerns and concerns expressed by some members of the committee on employment and social affairs at second reading in the context of the proposal for a new implementing regulation which the commission will present before the end of this year. and i hope, as mrs lambert said, that by 2006 the regulation and all three annexes will have been adopted. the council's common position is in line with the main objectives of the commission's proposal, which are to simplify and improve the coordination of social security systems for the benefit of european citizens moving within the union. simplification and modernisation of this regulation is a key prerequisite for promoting labour mobility in the union. it is thus closely linked to the overall objective of competitiveness, more and better jobs and social cohesion. it is true that this regulation protects in the field of social security persons who move for any reason, personal or professional, from one member state to another. it is therefore important to the vast majority of european citizens. i shall not list all the improvements which the new rules will bring in comparison with the current regulation, but we can, very shortly, focus our attention on three issues. the new rules will apply to all citizens of the european union covered by the social security system of a member state. the application of the coordination rules to all insured persons will satisfy the need to adapt regulation 1408 to the development of freedom of movement within the union, which is not only a right for workers but also a reality for all european citizens. the new rules will strengthen the principle of equal treatment of european union nationals by introducing the provision on the cross-border recognition of facts and events. this provision is of particular importance for frontier workers. the current regulation does not contain clear provisions on good administration. the new rules fill this gap. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in addition, the institutions will be obliged to reply within a reasonable time to all questions and to provide citizens with all the information necessary to exercise their rights. in conclusion, i would like to say that it has indeed been a long and difficult process which has been successfully completed, and i would like to thank you once again for the painstaking and rapid work you have carried out in your capacity as co-legislator.
commission. madam president, the commission can take on board the concerns of some members of the committee on employment and social affairs in the framework of the proposal for the new implementing regulation. for both of the commission's proposals, for the new implementing regulation and for the content of the three annexes, the parliament will play its role as a co-legislator.
- thank you, chief dimas. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the commission and mr luigi cocilovo for the very good and exemplary cooperation they have shown in this report. the report is important because it touches on the most fundamental aspect of our economy, both at european, national and regional level, namely the proper functioning of transport. it is also very important because it can help us to cope with environmental problems, congestion and noise. the commissioner said that there was concern in the council about competitive disadvantages and there is of course concern about competitive disadvantages, because there are too high charges in certain areas, for example in northern scandinavia where we have long distances both to the european market, but also within the region and within the countries. such a tolling system must not contribute to the difficulty of transport, which is detrimental to the economy and employment. the amendments to article 7 of the report say that lower fees should be allowed. i think it is good that this possibility exists, and when it is to be defined, regional policy aspects must be included because, as i said, it must not mean that transport is made more difficult, so that the economy is made more difficult in certain regions of europe. i have heard these thoughts in the cocilovo report and i am most grateful for them.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european space agency is a member of the european union. we have also previously supported the commission's green paper on space policy adopted on 9 october 2003, the decision on a harmonised european space strategy adopted on 17 january 2002 and the proposal for an action plan for the implementation of the european space policy adopted on 29 january 2004. we have also supported the measures to implement the galileo project. it is important that the eu's competence in the field of space policy should not be extended and that industrial cooperation in the field of space should be mainly carried out on an intergovernmental basis in accordance with the agreement on the european space agency. the eu's involvement should, in the first instance, cover the field of space research. we reject the increased competence of the european union which is planned to be introduced in the draft constitution of the european union.
in writing. - (sv) we fully support the right of free movement of persons as one of the fundamental freedoms of the internal market. that is why we are voting for the lambert report. it is natural that the eu should decide what is to apply to those union citizens who move from one country to another in order to realise the vision of free movement of labour and of other citizens who are able to provide for themselves. but when the eu moves into areas which are mainly to be handled by the member states, there is an obvious risk of overlapping legislation. when countries want to protect their contribution systems, they resort to discriminatory transitional provisions because the detailed eu provisions do not provide for fully fair, permanent measures. pensions and other benefits earned should be able to be taken with them without difficulty when moving to another eu country, while social benefits (such as child and housing benefits) which are not earned individually should not, in principle, be paid to persons residing in other countries. in the context of the union of 25 now being established, regulation 1408/71 on social security schemes should be revised to better adapt it to the new conditions.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i have chosen to vote against the committee's amendment no 21, which seeks to abolish the swedish share system where a and b shares have different voting weights. a certain degree of harmonisation of the eu's financial market rules is necessary to strengthen the single market and thus growth. the amendment is going in the wrong direction. the system of a and b shares is open, non-discriminatory and based on voluntary purchase agreements. it allows individuals and institutions to invest risk capital in a company without incurring ownership liability. there is no evidence to support the claim that the differential voting system prevents acquisitions. a more fundamental objection is that it is not the eu that should decide on ownership, question ownership or prevent long-term ownership of a company.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking mr konstantinos hatzidakis for his excellent cooperation as usual. firstly, we need a european cohesion policy. we need a solidarity distribution policy in the enlarged eu to compensate for disparities and to compensate regions far from the major markets. secondly, on the budgetary front, we must provide the resources needed to make the enlargement of the european union a success and to boost growth in europe. we'll use the money well. thirdly, the extreme rural areas in northern sweden and finland are losing their objective 1 status under the proposal and this has to be questioned because the geographical disadvantages are there regardless of what europe looks like. we must ensure that these parts of europe get the support they need. fourthly, the commission must ensure that the outermost regions receive their fair share of the future structural funds regulation.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have written the report on the discharge of the european development fund. we have discussed this in committee and we have been very unanimous in our analysis of the developments in the european development fund and we have also been very unanimous in our decision on the report. i have also had very good cooperation with the commission and the court of auditors, and i would like to thank those institutions for that. looking at the court of auditors' statement on the european development fund, it can be said that it approves the expenditure, but only almost. the commission is not prepared to give the green light for direct budget support, which in 2002 accounted for about a quarter of the total. this is important because all plans indicate that in future more and more of the assistance will be given as direct budget support. if these funds are to be used correctly and if we are to have the possibility of monitoring whether the funds are being used correctly or not, we must have a completely different quality of budgetary control and budgetary follow-up in the recipient acp countries. the commission still has a lot of work to do before it can give us this report properly. this is a key element in the future revision of the european development fund. the court is also very critical of the annual declaration by the director-general of the directorate-general responsible. the court considers that he could not do so because of the information he had. this is a criticism which the commission should take up, and i conclude that it is very serious. it indicates that the control system is still not working well enough. when we asked the commission for concrete reports evaluating different projects in different acp countries, it took a very long time to produce these reports. this confirms a number of the concerns we had during this work, namely that the headquarters in brussels does not have sufficient overview of the work of the delegations. if you do not have the reports and cannot give them to us, even though they are on the lists, it is difficult to imagine that you have a proper follow-up in place. we believe that this is something that the committee on budgetary control must continue to examine and look at next year. on the whole, we recommend discharge for the european development fund. i would also like to say something about the other reports, which are also much more controversial than my own in this debate, in particular the reports by michiel van hulten and gabriele stauner. i and the gue/ngl group will not vote for the discharge of the council or the committee of the regions and we believe that the votes on the discharge of these two institutions should have been postponed. in the case of the council, it is mainly a matter of its attitude and its unwillingness to cooperate with parliament. the council has been given a timetable, a series of questions, which it is in practice refusing to answer. these requests for answers are in fact fully in line with the existing financial regulation. the council is referring instead to a kind of gentlemen's agreement from the 1970s, which is completely outdated. instead, the council of ministers has graciously chosen to answer certain selected questions to a few selected members, and this is done without any obligation and behind closed doors. i think this is completely against the spirit of this whole process of discharge, which should be open and transparent. we cannot vote for discharge in respect of the committee of the regions either. already a year ago there was an alarm about very serious irregularities in the committee of the regions, not least in the field of travel and a number of other points. it is clear that the committee of the regions has not yet taken this issue seriously. the committee still rejects several of the main conclusions drawn by olaf in its investigation. as olaf expected, the disciplinary processes that should have been initiated have not been put in place. it is quite clear that the financial controller who raised the alarm about the irregularities has been treated badly and has not received the apology he should have received, because he has acted in full accordance with his mandate. as regards the van hulten report, we think it is a very good piece of work. it's high quality, it's thoroughly done, and it's very concrete. as far as parliament itself is concerned, it is time to press for the abolition of the strasbourg meetings. there is no excuse from a budgetary control point of view for spending an extra 200 million euros a year to commute between brussels and strasbourg. it is now, before the end of the igc, that the time has come to put forward this position and we have that opportunity tomorrow. the question of the remuneration of members of parliament will be an issue in this election campaign whether we like it or not, but parliament has itself to blame. it is impossible to justify to the man on the street that we have the different compensation systems that we have and that we have granted them to ourselves. we must instead have a new system of remuneration and wages which is justifiable and transparent. i have therefore tabled, together with freddy blak of the gue/ngl group, a number of amendments to clean up the benefits system. it is important to note that we believe that travellers should be reimbursed for the actual costs of their journey and not for the number of kilometres travelled. we also think that the existing arrangements for taxi services should be reviewed. we have 'free' cars in parliament and there is no need to have a system for reimbursing taxi fares, since you can pay for them yourself from your ticket. we have also put forward some proposals to tighten up the system for when you can get the daily allowances so that it is more closely linked to the meetings you actually attend. finally, i would like to comment on the eurostat deal and also on the commission's statement, although the commission seems to be moving away from it. i think the evidence is overwhelming, as the alarms about the irregularities in eurostat were raised long before the commission decided to act. parliament and the internal audit service were alerted, but the commission acted too late. the question here is one of political responsibility. at the beginning of the commission's term of office the president stressed that political accountability should be demanded of individual commissioners and now that we are in a situation where it should have been demanded, we are told that it is not necessary. this is a major disappointment, given the ambitions of the commission when it took office. we're saying it's not good enough.
mr president, i have expressly put a question to mrs schreyer about the future financing of info-points and carrefour offices. however, even though she has only one other question to answer, she does not want to have a debate on my question. i have contacted our services to ask them why. they tell me that they have been in touch with the commission and the reason is that this is not the responsibility of commissioner schreyer but of mr prodi. the problem is that mr prodi never comes here to answer questions, so i will simply receive a written reply. i would really like to question what the commission says about whose responsibility this is. the info-points problem is caused by the new financial regulation, which is the responsibility of mrs schreyer, and the solution will have to be found in the next budget, which is also the responsibility of mrs schreyer. therefore, it seems to me that this is only a way of avoiding a sensitive debate. that is not acceptable, and i would ask the president of parliament to look into this. i would be very happy if mrs schreyer would comment on this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today mordechai vanunu is to be released. he is one of the heroes of our time, the man who confirmed that israel has a significant nuclear arsenal that could turn the entire middle east into a nuclear desert. for this achievement in the service of peace, he was rewarded with kidnapping by the state of israel and 18 years in prison. the world largely forgot about him. israel is allowed to have its nuclear weapons in peace while arab and muslim states that seek to protect themselves against the nuclear threat from israel are being bombed to pieces and destroyed. why is the international community not intervening against israel's nuclear weapons? why can't dimona be the same as ossirak? the unbalanced action of the international community is one of the causes of the hopelessness now prevailing in the middle east. a sentiment which was echoed here in parliament yesterday by two of the region's leading peace-lovers, abraham burg and yassir rabo. in le monde, egyptian president mubarak stated that hatred of the united states in the arab world has never been as strong as it is today. the united states is behind israel 100 percent. that's why the united states alone cannot bring peace. there is a need for a better balance, and the eu could achieve this by supporting the palestinians as strongly as the us supports israel. the eu could turn words into action and implement parliament's call to suspend the association agreement with israel. the eu could send protection forces to the palestinian territories. the eu could demand that israel dismantle its nuclear arsenal. the eu could invite vanunu and give him sanctuary in any eu country he wishes. the eu could go even further. a few years ago, i met shimon perez. he suggested that both israel and palestine should be offered eu membership, on condition that they conclude a stable peace. clearly, the eu has an attraction outside its borders that it does not always have among its own member states. let's make the most of it. offer eu membership to palestine and israel as a reward for a final peace.
rapporteur. – mr president, i understand and sympathise with the idea behind the amendment tabled that incentives are needed in the marketplace so as to encourage the purchase of environmentally friendly products. however, the wording is too specific. i suggest an alternative that reads: 'insists that, to promote the consumption of environmentally friendly products, the commission encourage member states to consider various incentives, such as reduced taxes, rebates, etc.' i understand that my colleagues who originally tabled the amendment accept this.
rapporteur. – mr president, i support the first part of the amendment, but not the second part. however, i would suggest that if the house supports the first part then it should it be voted as an addition.
in writing. - (sv) mr van hultens report is important. we regret, however, that the paragraph calling for the suspension of parliament's activities in strasbourg was not adopted. we believe that all the activities of the european parliament should be moved to brussels. that is why we abstained at the end of the vote.
in writing. - (sv) i voted in favour of the amendments for the following reasons: (1) that the european parliament itself can decide where it will sit (adopted by 275 votes to 223 with 16 abstentions); (2) that the european parliament has one seat instead of three, as it currently has with brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg (adopted by 271 votes to 223 with 21 abstentions), since this division of labour entails an extra expenditure of eur 185 million per year (approximately sek 1 750 million) and after enlargement eur 203 million (approximately sek 1 850 million); (3) that the allowance for costs is to be monitored (adopted by 380 votes to 119); (4) that the allowance for costs is based on the principle of reimbursement of actual costs (partly taken into account in the amendments and adopted by 336 votes to 138 with 28 abstentions); (5) that the general taxation costs are not to be reimbursed and that the allowance for special costs is to be included in the allowance for costs (adopted by 18 votes to 146 with 351 abstentions).
in writing. - (sv) we do not want the commission to put forward proposals which are intended to change the national action systems. we have voted against the wording which encourages the commission to implement the principle of 'one share, one vote', because this is not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. such a proposal would have far-reaching consequences for ownership in several member states. different national corporate law systems must be respected. we cannot support the wording which is intended to promote the mobility of workers, since it does not take account of trade union aspects and is not accompanied by a demand that companies take on social responsibility. increased mobility in the european labour market is good, but we cannot accept flexibility at the expense of workers.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? we have voted against the report today for the following reasons: an agreement on takeover bids (concerning the acquisition of companies) has recently been reached. the eu institutions should stick to what is agreed during these negotiations. this report proposes a departure from the agreement. such behaviour may make it even more difficult in the future to conclude agreements if the institutions do not comply with them. we therefore believe that the points relating to the weighting of voting rights and defence interests in various forms should not have been included in the report. when the parts of company law which benefit from harmonisation are amended by european legislation, the principle of subsidiarity must be respected and central management of the company must be avoided as far as possible. the freedom of contract must never be violated in the way that is proposed. we particularly welcome the initiative of industry to increase openness and transparency in management and reporting and hope that these principles will influence future european developments in this field.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? i voted against the resolution (adopted by 422 votes to 30, with 47 abstentions) before the cyprus referendum on 24 april, because the european parliament is thereby contributing to the turkish occupation of the northern part of the island. the resolution clearly supports the annan plan. the european parliament has consistently referred to the un resolutions on cyprus in the past, calling for the end of the occupation and the partition of the country. the occupation forces are being reduced, but they're here indefinitely. turkey retains the right to unilateral intervention and the occupation persists, although it is reduced from 37 to 28.5% of the island. some of the greek cypriot refugees may return to their occupied homes. the remainder are offered financial compensation in the form of bonds, which can be redeemed in 20-25 years at an unknown value. cyprus is not authorised to participate in and assist the eu's security and defence policy on its territory without the approval of the turkish government. in practice, cyprus will not become a full member of the eu. turkish citizens shall have the same rights of entry and residence in cyprus as greek citizens. cyprus cannot be included in schengen cooperation, since the entire population of turkey would have free access to the schengen area. the european parliament calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. - (sv) we are voting on the following points: point 13: we welcome increased european cooperation between national coastguards in terms of joint operations, planning and capacity building. we therefore do not think that the creation of a new parallel activity in the form of a european coast guard service is necessary. point 17: we are hesitant about european funding for emergency ports. we believe that the countries which have taken up their responsibilities and financed emergency ports along their coasts should not be burdened by the failure of other countries to establish emergency ports.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the greens/efa group agrees with john cushnahan in principle. of course, as elmar brok said, there is a balance. there are also positive developments in pakistan, not least the peace talks with india, which are extremely important and should have our full support. is it not a little strange that when we make such balances, the commercial aspects of trade policy almost always end up outweighing the very clear principles of human rights that we have inscribed in our agreements? what is the point of having human rights clauses in agreements with other countries if we always make trade-offs that end up not caring about human rights clauses but allowing other interests, especially economic ones, to weigh heavier? it leads to eroding respect for our own high principles. it is this balance that makes it obvious to us in the verts/ale group that we must reject this agreement now. we hope that pakistan will understand that signal and take steps so that we can say yes rather than no pretty soon. i would have liked to say yes but unfortunately that is not possible if we are to maintain our principles of human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a very important report which was about to fall victim to political fox-play from the right. i shall concentrate on two aspects of the report, israel/palestine and the right of women to determine their own lives. let me first say about the pakistan debate that human rights must also be at the centre of this issue, not the economic aspects. legitimising a regime that has seized power in a military coup and does not respect human rights should be completely foreign to the eu. yesterday, in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, we had the opportunity to listen to the geneva initiative and to representatives of both israel and palestine. it confirmed what is described in paragraphs 46 and 47 of this report, among other things, but which the right-wing group now wants to vote against. turning a blind eye to reality has never led to real solutions to problems. then there's the reproductive health thing. women's rights are human rights. women must of course have the right to control their own bodies and therefore have the right to reproductive health. proposals 28-40 are important amendments to support. every minute, a woman dies from causes related to childbirth. every minute, 100 abortions are performed, half of them by people without medical training. every year 70,000 women die as a result of unsafe abortions. in developing countries, reproductive problems are the leading cause of death and disability. refusing to support organisations which provide advice on contraception and knowingly contributing to the unsafe abortions and premature deaths of hundreds of thousands of women and the infection of hundreds of thousands of women with hiv every year is a serious violation of human rights and a serious risk to women's reproductive health.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the eyes of the outside world, the eu's work on human rights is of great importance. the rogue states that we condemn in our reports send their ambassadors to make all kinds of references to their countries. on the other hand, a resolution of parliament sometimes gives hope and new courage to prisoners, tortured, struggling and oppressed people all over the world. concerned citizens turn to the eu to play an active role in working for a better world. they are sometimes disappointed when we choose to turn a blind eye to serious crime because trade policy or strategic interests take precedence over serious violations. that is why we must never give up on the promotion of human rights in our relations with countries such as china, iran, cuba, syria, zimbabwe, etc. i myself wrote a report on the annual report on human rights almost five years ago. i brought up violence against women as a theme. i think it is logical to continue on this path in the final report of the mandate. the fact that in 2004 we have a debate on the fact that sexual violence, genital mutilation, the lack of aids medicines, the rape of little girls and sex trafficking have no place in a human rights report shows that we have quite a long way to go in this house too. i do not agree with véronique de keyser on all the details of her report, but it is right and important to highlight these issues. it is very strange that protests are coming from the right wing that these issues have no place in a report on human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! i think we should welcome the report by mr fernando fernández martín and welcome the fact that the committee on development and cooperation has finally been given the task of drafting the report. the majority of the countries covered by the regulation are indeed developing countries. we have worked hard to reach a compromise in committee which could be accepted by the council and the commission as well as by parliament. we understand the importance of getting this report through at first reading. we therefore support the rapporteur's request to vote against the third amendment from the committee on budgets, which is unacceptable to the council. nevertheless, we have put some requirements to the commission to ensure that parliament can follow the work on the regulation more effectively. by asking the commission to produce an annual report on the regional and sectoral programmes for the coming years, we want to increase the transparency of the work on the regulation considerably. in addition, reporting back to parliament will help us to better understand where implementation is most effective. we are pleased that the commission has accepted some of the most important amendments we have made. it is important that the decisions taken in the field of human rights reflect the eu's commitment to support democracy, international law and, of course, respect for human rights. the additional proposals that were first put forward were intended to base our decisions on human rights on our own concern for the security of the european union. that would have been a tragic mistake. we need to protect ourselves, not least against terrorist threats, but the current trend expressed, even by some senior figures in the eu, that aid should be tailored to meet our security needs is a very dangerous way to go and a principle that must not be entrenched. we will protect the integrity of our human rights, development aid and cooperation activities and ensure that they always support the consolidation of democracy, international law, human rights and poverty eradication as their primary focus. finally, this is also the last time i speak in this chamber. i'm leaving it after ten years and i want to thank you for a very good cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, there are different views on whether the commission's actions are so serious as to warrant a vote of no confidence, and i can therefore respect a factual statement such as that made by mr pierre jonckheer. on the other hand, when i listened to francoise grossetête, helmut kuhne and others, i was reminded of my visit to the supreme soviet in moscow in the 1980s. there they ridiculed all critics, there they condemned critics, and there they accused critics of being anti-soviet and traitors. is that how you are going to defend your union project? is this going to be done with accusations and ridicule, by harassing whistleblowers, and by putting the police on journalists who dig? have you not noticed that the project is suffering from a crisis of confidence due to its lack of transparency and democratic legitimacy? we are trying to use a classic parliamentary instrument to control the executive. you may have a different view, but when you ridicule us, scold us and call us anti-european, you undermine the democratic legitimacy of your own project.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the last agreement of this period, which aims to establish a common market for rail transport, was a great success, not least for parliament. it is regrettable, however, that the council refused to reduce the number of members of the board of the new european railway agency as requested by parliament. it will undoubtedly lead to unnecessary bureaucracy, as gilles savary has so eloquently developed here in the house and in the best possible way during the negotiations. however, we managed to get the european parliament to adopt a legally binding text which will require the commission to carry out a thorough review of the structure and composition of all the authorities. effective governance must be based on a european public interest. it would be a step backwards to consider that the main merit of the decision-making bodies would be that they are nationally composed, since this reduces the possibility of the necessary efficiency. national interests may have their place, but they must not be the overriding consideration. parliament managed to bring forward the liberalisation of freight transport to 2007 thanks to mr jarzembowski. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. in order to ensure train safety, all railway workers who affect railway safety, such as train drivers and others, must from now on use a common vocabulary and a system of orders to eliminate any risk of misunderstanding. in addition, all trains must be equipped with a black box similar to those found in airplanes. the four rapporteurs of the railway package, georg jarzembowski responsible for the report on the development of the community's railways, gilles savary responsible for the report on a european railway agency, dirk sterckx responsible for the report on safety on the community's railways and sylviane h. ainardi responsible for the report on the interoperability of the trans-european rail system, have all helped to revive the european railway sector. developing rail infrastructure is necessary to reduce congestion on our motorways and enable us to meet environmental requirements. i would like to thank the european parliament and the rapporteurs, mr jarzembowski, mr savary, mr sterckx and mr ainardi, for this important step. and it was an interesting development that we were able to unite all the different parties. there was only a minor split between the parties. we were able to maintain a somewhat united front against the council, which is of course largely the reason for the result. the reconciliation was conducted in a pleasant spirit and the new tone which we can now see between parliament and the council was expressed in the best possible way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you. i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for their excellent work. i would like to pay special tribute to christa randzio-plath for her diligent work on this report. she has also done a great deal of work for the committee on economic and monetary affairs. your presidency, mrs randzio-plath, has been marked by resilience, knowledge and professionalism. i am sure that the committee on economic and monetary affairs will miss you. thank you, thank you! the eu economy is still suffering from serious problems. global growth has not picked up the pace we wanted and expected. although the u.s. economy is improving, many problems remain. the double deficit and political uncertainty are draining economic momentum. the growth of the euro area is also not impressive. we are well aware of the figures. as for the eu-15, it appears to have a better economic momentum, with growth of 2% this year and 2.4% next year. the new member states are faring much better, with growth of 3.5% this year and an average of 4% next year. we can only dream of that in the eu-15. we know that the changes in the new member states have been very extensive, and often painful. the development is moving in the right direction, although some objections can be raised and caution is recommended, as the international monetary fund, the imf, has said today. the eu-15 should be able to learn more from the new member states to boost the economy. the competition and the growing market that is now opening up are to everyone's advantage. instead of criticizing countries like slovakia and estonia for lowering their taxes and thereby creating room for growth, we should look at what we can learn from this. it would be particularly devastating if the eu, in an attempt to equalize and control national economies, were to force the new countries to raise taxes and implement sweeping welfare reforms at a rate they themselves do not want. of course, the competition will be fierce, it already is. the corporate tax rate in the new member states is lower than in the eu, but there is good competition. the need for structural reforms remains in several member states. we know who has sinned, and the list of sinners will unfortunately grow longer. the netherlands and great britain are next. as regards the stability and growth pact, we think it has worked well. the flexibility already exists today and the rules can certainly be revised, but pacta sunt servanda. we liberals believe that europe can get out of these economic problems, but then more must be done. the lisbon process must be fully implemented. the liberal recipe for eu member states to achieve growth and jobs is sound public finances, increased competition, the completion of the internal market in all its parts and structural reforms for the future. we will not support the additional amendments in the christa randzio-plath report, but we are prepared to support the balanced balance proposed by the rapporteur. mr president, we face enormous challenges in europe, but the opportunities of the new europe are so much greater. peace, freedom, democracy and social and economic stability now dominate europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we agree that europe is doing very badly. the excellent report by randzio-plath documents how terribly bad things look. this is particularly true of europe, not the whole world. so it must have something to do with specific european conditions. i am one of those who believe that this has to do with the stability pact and the policies linked to it. as long as it's there, it's not gonna do much good. we have low levels of investment and lack of growth and dynamism, which actually means we have a surplus of capital. this capital may then leave europe to find more profitable investment opportunities. we also have a tragic surplus of labour in the form of unemployed people. i do not think we can break this unless we break the stability pact and instead start thinking in terms of public investment in the keynesian tradition of experience. it is forbidden to speak about keynes today, but i think it is extremely important to start discussing keynes and post-keynesianism. the fact that it's not done must be some kind of ideological blockage. i can't see it any other way. it is not much use having a good employment policy as long as those who are trained and qualified are not employed. the companies don't want them. we need to invest in public investment. i believe that this is not just a question of infrastructure, but also, to a large extent, of public service consumption. it needs to be increased. i also believe - another thing that should not be discussed - that it is time to reduce working hours in order to get more people into work. this would improve balance and increase productivity at work. such measures are needed if we are to get anywhere, but as long as neo-liberal policies dominate, europe will continue to suffer, unfortunately.
in writing. - (sv) we support the compromise result in the second railway package, firstly because it will make international rail freight transport faster and easier, for the benefit of the environment and for the transfer of goods from the road to the railway, and secondly because it does not lead to a deregulation of rail passenger traffic. we believe that the consequences of deregulation in sweden must first be examined, as the swedish government is also doing at the moment, before we possibly proceed with further deregulation.
in the case of the new member states, the commission will be able to take account of the fact that the budgetary situation is changing. the budget must be re-prioritized so that less money is spent on agricultural aid. we are also concerned about budgetary discipline and critical of the commission's proposals for increases in expenditure. in this situation we will not comment on the exact levels to be reached by the new budgetary plan, partly because it is difficult to forecast expenditure and the priorities are not defined, and partly because we do not want to limit the new parliament with precise figures.
in the case of the new member states, the commission will be able to take account of the fact that the budgetary situation is changing. the budget must be re-prioritized so that less money is spent on agricultural aid. we are also concerned about budgetary discipline and critical of the commission's proposals for increases in expenditure. in this situation we will not comment on the exact levels at which the new budgetary plan should be placed, partly because the priorities of what has happened in the past have not been defined, and partly because we do not want to limit the new parliament with precise figures. as far as military action is concerned, we believe that it should be decided at national level. peace-building measures must be carried out under a un mandate.
in writing. - (sv) what is it? the enlargement is a historic event for which we liberals have been working for a long time. we are aware that enlargement will cost money and that it must be financed jointly. of course we must show solidarity with our new member states. before we increase the budget, however, we must look at what can be cut, since the current budget is anything but watertight. we must close these gaps before we require additional funds. when it comes to tax money, it doesn't matter what level of society we're talking about. we must manage the public's trust well. the eu must therefore set a good example by making existing resources more efficient and better used.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this case contains a number of important points concerning the need for media pluralism, the value of protecting consumers through transparency in advertising and the right of reply. in addition, the ownership structure and the concentration of power within the media world in sweden were criticised. the basic problem, however, is that parliament was not given the opportunity, through a dubious procedural issue, to vote on the amendments tabled, which were intended to improve the report. no less than 338 amendments were tabled in plenary and not one of them was dealt with. most of these amendments were tabled by the ppe-de group and as a result of the fact that the proposals never came to a vote, the ppe-de group chose not to take part in the vote. i agree with the ppe-de group in its criticism that the amendments should have been dealt with in plenary, but i nevertheless think it is the duty of every elected member to take part in the vote. i therefore chose to take part in all the votes, including the final vote, consistently voting neither for nor against.
in writing. - (sv) i have voted against the conclusion of the present cooperation agreement with pakistan because of the lack of human rights in the country, particularly in the area of religious freedom, where the christian minority lives in difficult circumstances. the pakistani regime has chosen to continue to give the military a great deal of influence in the country, at the expense of more democratic development. the turn of events is disturbing, not least in light of the senate's passage of new constitutional laws that expand the military's influence and make it permanent. furthermore, the regime has chosen to imprison opponents. i think it is absurd that the european parliament should have recommended the present agreement, given that the european union has a great responsibility for promoting human rights in the world and that these values should be the basis for cooperation agreements with third countries.
in the case of the united states, the european union has a duty to ensure that the united states does not violate the human rights of its citizens. in many ways, it's a good analysis with well-formulated conclusions. we believe, however, that the report should have confined itself to the areas of human rights and freedoms enshrined in the un charter. the extension of the report and the introduction of new so-called human rights of the social type weaken the demands on traditional freedoms and human rights and the criticism of countries which do not fulfil them. we are not opposed, for example, to social rights depending on the economic conditions of the country. the situation of the disabled is of course infinitely better in sweden than in poor countries such as bangladesh and laos. on the other hand, there is no reason to condone crimes against human rights and democratic freedoms and rights simply because they are committed in poor countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr nielson for his report. on the first anniversary of castro's mass political imprisonment, we christian democrats from sweden, denmark, the netherlands, belgium, germany, spain, portugal, the czech republic and slovakia made a joint appeal in a letter to the un secretary-general kofi annan. we wanted to remind you that on 18 march 2003, in the shadow of the iraq war, fidel castro launched a wave of repression, arresting 75 pro-democracy activists on false grounds and after summary trials. they were sentenced to between 15 and 27 years in prison each. in total, these 75 constitutional activists were sentenced to 1,456 years in prison. their fate must not be forgotten by the outside world. that is why it is extremely urgent that we in the european parliament make this statement today. we, as the european parliament, believe that the sentences must be quashed, as the trials in cuba were clearly devoid of any legal certainty for the accused. they have been convicted on purely political grounds. we demand the immediate release of these 75 human rights activists. their so-called crime is that, in accordance with the cuban constitution, they have collected names, about 10,000 signatures, for a referendum on a more pluralistic and more democratic cuba. for this they have been given extremely long sentences. the majority of democracy advocates belong to the christian and christian democratic human rights movement movimento cristiano liberación. i, together with josé ribeiro e castro and 206 other members, took the initiative of inviting osvaldo payá sardiñas, the sakharov prize winner, to join us here in europe. commissioner nielson, let this invitation be made real by putting pressure on the cuban regime so that osvaldo payá sardiñas can come to us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr nielson for his report. the lack of respect for ilo labour rights perpetuates poverty and impedes development by depressing wages and denying people education, which is a violation of human dignity. we know that the production of sportswear and sports shoes is organised through an elaborate international system of subcontractors. the european parliament therefore today says that the question of working conditions for workers, especially in the third world, must be addressed by the commission and the international olympic committee. some leading sportswear companies and socially responsible investment firms have also declared that the current reckless business and labour practices in the global supply chain are unsustainable, lead to unhealthy competition and are an obstacle to good entrepreneurship. there is also a concern among us consumers about irregularities in terms of employment and working conditions. i therefore appeal to you and to the commission, mr nielson, to take action, among other things, against the international olympic committee, against the business and sports sectors and their subcontractors, to ensure that they recognise the ilo's international labour standards and that these labour standards are incorporated into the ioc's code of conduct. this is a matter of human dignity. mr commissioner, good luck with this urgent work!
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner vitorino, you are in charge. chairman of the board! i think we are all still in the historical frenzy of this weekend's celebration of european unity. it is a privilege to stand here in this chamber with colleagues from 24 other countries. the eu will never be the same again. but after this celebration comes a day in the life, the european union, marked by negotiations, talks and compromises. this approach is far superior to any other in terms of moving european cooperation forward, but it also has its shortcomings and it will not always be easy to agree with so many different countries, wills, cultures, backgrounds and expectations. we also have a great demand and pressure from citizens and expectations for the eu to function and deliver. that is why we need a rulebook; we need a constitution. today we have honored the memory of altiero spinelli who, more than anyone, fought for a constitution. there is no better way to honour his memory than to ensure that the citizens of europe have a european constitution. the new countries that have now become our colleagues have made enormous efforts on their way here. unfortunately, the old eu has not shown the same willingness to change. we are facing enormous challenges. we have the environmental threat of the greenhouse effect, the fight against organised crime and terrorism and the terrible trafficking of women and children. we must create a continent of growth and economic development. we must create a common european foreign policy and we must become more active in the global work for peace, democracy and free trade. these issues cannot be resolved effectively and satisfactorily by the treaty of nice. we have done our homework here in parliament. we have been pushing for a convention to be held. we have actively contributed to the discussion. now it's time for the council to deliver their homework. we must show the citizens of 25 countries - 450 million people - that the new eu has grown its new suit. we must show that we are able and willing to change in order to tackle the problems we face and to realise the full potential of a united europe. i would therefore like to thank the irish presidency for the enormous work you are doing and wish you good luck so that we can all see the implementation of a european constitution at the summit in june.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr nielson for his report. chairman of the board! the eldr group in this house has perhaps been the most active in pushing for enlargement. we've been pushing and committing to a date. we have worked closely with the candidate countries, with our sister parties and others. we have invited them here during the sessions. we have been active in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and we were the only political group to vote unanimously for each country in the vote on membership here in the house. of course, we rejoice greatly these days when what we have been fighting for has finally become a reality. we have finally united the european continent, which has been divided for so long by war, misery, hostility and walls. now there is no longer an "us" and a "them". now we are all "we": 25 countries, 450 million citizens who have come together to solve common problems, defend common values and build a common future. but this is not the end. the eu will continue to grow. we look forward to welcoming bulgaria and romania in a few years' time. we look forward to the start of the negotiations with croatia, and the eldr group also supports the turkish candidacy. there have been major reforms and changes in turkey under the leadership of recep tayyip erdoğan; the country has been modernised and democratized. there is certainly a lot to be done. the role of the military in politics is not acceptable; there are political prisoners; the kurds are still treated in a degrading and discriminatory manner and the trial of leyla zana leaves much to be desired. we do not grant any exemptions - there are criteria - but turkey will have a clear place eventually. a democratic turkey would make an important contribution and be a link between europe and the muslim world. the eldr group can never accept the argument that the eu is only a christian union. the eu will be in an enlargement period for many years. the day serbs and albanians sit here with us, or with you in the council, side by side negotiating, for example, emission quotas, the european project will once again be a clear peace project. the eldr group believes that we should not set a limit to the size of the eu today. we have a principle that all countries which are wholly or partly in europe are welcome as long as they meet the criteria. however, the world is bigger than the eu, and so is an enlarged eu. the main task of the next parliamentary term will therefore be to give concrete form to the neighbourhood strategy and to formulate concrete ways of increasing cooperation with our neighbours to the east and south, in the mediterranean process and with those countries which may one day become members and those which may not wish to become members. we must find solutions both jointly and bilaterally. the people of moldova, albania, georgia, ukraine, the oppressed in belarus, all have high hopes for the eu. they want us to be able to give them an answer about a better future. we must therefore formulate strategies for how we will work with these countries. it's going to be a priority. mr president, i would like to thank you. you can be sure that the eldr group will be a driving force in this work. finally, on my own behalf and on behalf of the eldr group, i would like to thank mr brok for his work in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. he's not here, but i want my thanks for the record. he has been very important to the work of the committee and to where we are today.
- thank you, mrs berès, your views will be forwarded to the president of parliament, together with those of mr tomczak.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it was said several times yesterday that it is only now that the second world war has really ended. as someone put it: it is only now that hitler and stalin have finally been defeated by walesa and havel. freedom, respect and tolerance have triumphed over the totalitarian forces. that is what makes today's step so significant, not primarily for those of us who are active now but for those who will follow us. in some ways, contrary to commissioner verheugen, whose efforts we all have every reason to be very grateful for today, i would still say that this is exactly what the founding fathers of the european union wanted to achieve: the europe without frontiers, where we no longer speak of east and west as a political dividing line. it is important on a day like this that we do not build new frontiers but are open to allowing others to join, but also that the old member states take advantage of the new opportunities offered by enlargement. a new kind of politician has now taken his place in this parliament. these are men who, regardless of their position, have helped to bring freedom to their peoples and now have brought them into an even greater community. the morning after may 1 i was at mass in a small catholic church in tallinn, estonia, and the priest spoke about the day's topical issue: we have always asked: what do we get if we join the eu? what do we have to gain from this? but, he said, "a christian's first question is not, what do i get, but what can i give?" we have much to learn from the contributions of these men who have now taken their place among us, whose values and ideas were not matched even by the worst weapons of soviet power. i just hope the rest of us listen, learn, and embrace.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by welcoming our 162 new members to the european parliament. i am convinced that there will be many interesting discussions in this new parliament, even if i myself will not be taking part, as i am leaving the european parliament after two terms. many have said that it is a historic enlargement, and of course it is. it must, however, be followed by further historical enlargements. we can't stop here. we must also be able to become members of the eu. i also welcome the negotiations with turkey, although i am open to cooperation without geographical boundaries. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the new and enlarged eu must undertake the arduous task of becoming a truly functioning union for all its citizens. the goal must be a secure future, dignity, work, health and a good environment to be handed down to the next generation. we have to be tolerant, we have to be good neighbors. i am therefore very proud that the swedish parliament voted against a proposal for transitional rules for labour from the new eu countries. i am proud that my party, the green party, from the outset said absolutely no to any kind of transitional rules. such rules only hurt and mar the joys of good neighbors. this was also made very clear by mr lech walesa's speech yesterday. to gain respect, you must also be willing to respect others.
mr president, i would like to thank you. economic and social policy in the eu is important and the european model is based on a balance between growth, trade union rights, good labour market conditions and sustainable development. we must speed up this policy. for growth, it is about investing in research and development, training of the workforce, investment and so on. equally important is the influence of trade unions on the development of the individual workplace in the form of a better working environment. it is equally important that we make development sustainable in the long term. i'm optimistic about this. i believe that enlargement can be positive, not just for the new countries but for the whole of the eu - also for us who are members of parliament and former members of the eu. i think it could be a success, a win-win situation. i myself come from the baltic sea region and live in sweden. i believe that growth can be boosted by increased trade across the baltic sea. it is important that we do not compete with each other through social dumping, worse working conditions or tax dumping which erodes our welfare systems, but that we maintain a high level of rights in the labour market and in our welfare systems. when we invest, we should do so in new, clean technologies which also create sustainable development and make growth long-term and not just short-term. i am optimistic, but that requires that the balance of the social model be maintained.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the european parliament elections in june, turnout was very low and eurosceptic parties made significant gains. opinion polls show that public confidence in the eu and its institutions is declining in most member states. the legitimacy of the european union is being progressively undermined. why is that? there are two main explanations. first, the development of the eu means that political power is increasingly being taken away from the citizens. secondly, citizens increasingly feel that eu resources are being wasted in waste and corruption. the new swedish party junilistan, which i represent, has stood for election on both these issues, and we have been given a strong political mandate to oppose the continued transfer of political power from the member states to brussels, and to contribute to an efficient and honest use of european taxpayers' money. the commission must stop entering into new areas all the time. we do not want the working hours of doctors to be regulated at eu level. we do not want hunting policy to be decided at eu level. we do not want a common tax or social policy. the ongoing centralisation and bureaucratisation of political power is in fact a threat to europe's future. europe's remarkable economic, scientific and social successes have been largely the result of an institutional competition between small political entities to find good solutions to such issues. the cradle of europe was ancient greece with its small states. the independent states of northern italy during the renaissance, the flood of german states in the 18th and 19th centuries, provided the great moments in european history. the industrial revolution began in england with a population of only a few tens of millions. the junilists call on the president of the commission to make the new mandate an epoch of political decentralisation and of the efficiency and clean-up of the eu institutions.
- madam president, i have to say something. the commission is not prepared to do that. i just came from the swedish parliament where for the last ten years we have been one in two women in politics. there are too few women in this parliament, less than a third. the commission and the other eu institutions have had far too few women. half of the voters are women, who also often have doubts about what the eu can offer them. the socialist group in this parliament is always looking at the proportion of women now. now, to my question. if you are elected, mr barroso, how many women will be in the commission? what gender equality policy will you pursue? are the women part of the partnership you were talking about? you said in a speech 'more women in the commission'. it's too diffuse. it's too lame. how many women are your target for the commission?
- madam president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to wish mr barroso the best of luck in the forthcoming vote and in the work of creating an agenda for the reform of europe. i think it can be said that today we have a better europe than ever thanks to the european union. the progress towards the rule of law, freedom and democracy that we have seen in so many countries over the past decades could not have happened without the european union. i think it is important to say this today because many have argued the opposite in terms of europe's ability to contribute to freedom and peace. the challenge now is also to make the european union better. it is about creating a competitive and growth-oriented force, and creating a clear political will. one of the first and most important tasks of the president of the commission is to ensure that no one sees the economic growth of the new countries as a threat to the old ones. on the contrary, their development is an asset for all of us and will help to revitalise the european economy. it underlines both the need and the possibilities for a reform agenda where i believe the president of the commission, and other political leaders, must have the courage to challenge the political, economic and structural problems we have in europe. the task is not to prevent change by means of regulations but to create an openness to the new that gives us new strength and new ideas in europe. in this respect, it is important that the lisbon process enters a new phase, because it has not worked because it has not led to the necessary changes. both the member states and the union must now do something to move europe forward. i would like to raise one more point in relation to the middle east and the union's foreign policy. if the european union cannot contribute to freedom and democracy in the dictatorships of the arab world, then we are also eroding the conditions for freedom and peace for palestinians and israelis alike. the collapse of the palestinian authority into terror, lawlessness and corruption, which we have seen in recent days, is an expression of the fact that the outside world has not asserted strongly enough the right of the palestinian people to representatives who respect the rule of law and democracy, as well as the lives and values of other people. this must be an important task for the european union. finally, i would like to mention that today we are witnessing a genocide in the darfur region of sudan. a crucial test for the european union will be to create the political capacity and the will to do something about it. we've told you too many times that this can't happen again. it's happening again. let us now make sure that we have the power to break that trend.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? belarus europe's last dictatorship it is usually called. seemingly unaffected by the earth-shaking events of the past decade - the fall of the berlin wall, the collapse of the soviet union, the democratization of eastern and central europe and the unification of europe. dictator lukashenko is desperately clinging to power and has now called a referendum to extend his mandate indefinitely. mr wiersma spoke of a constitutional coup d'état, and that is exactly what is at issue. he seems to want to follow in the footsteps of another dictator, fidel castro, just as he did. with the systematic and unsophisticated system of electoral fraud that the lukashenko regime has developed, there is unfortunately little to suggest that either the referendum or the october 17 election will be fair in any way. this means that lukashenko can sit on the bench while his people become poorer and poorer and more isolated. of course, it is a shame that in europe we have a communist dictatorship as our closest neighbour. despite countless attempts to influence the regime, with whips and carrots, we have failed utterly. it has been futile and fruitless to try to cooperate with the regime, and the country is therefore infinitely far from the values we defend. freedom of expression is minimal, opposition and human rights defenders are suppressed and persecuted. peaceful protesters are arrested, tortured and sentenced to prison after mock trials. belarus is the only country in europe that executes its prisoners. the trafficking of women is extensive. in many european streets, we find thousands of belarusian women. several people who have questioned the regime have mysteriously disappeared. but belarus is our neighbour and we cannot leave the belarusian people to their fate. they have the right to freedom and democracy, just like everyone else. we must therefore, as the commissioner says, in parliament, the council and the commission, try to find ways of supporting financially, politically and, above all, morally the courageous people and organisations who, despite everything, exist and who are fighting for the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human dignity. official pressure must be intensified. we must demand that election observers also be allowed to monitor this illegitimate referendum. my group would like to see parliament send observers on 17 october. with our new member states we have gained not only geographical proximity but also knowledge and history of belarus. it is important to use it and be creative in finding ways to support the democratic forces in belarus. many people see europe as a hope for a better future, as a chance and opportunity for a new life. we must of course maintain the dream that a democratic, open and market economy belarus could one day actually become a member of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? belarus has historically been part of both eastern and western europe, and relations between the eu and belarus are strained. the isolation of belarus has become more visible and at the same time more unsustainable. with the enlargement of the eu, belarus is a neighbour of the union, which gives rise to increased contacts in areas where possible. but at the moment it is unlikely that contacts will improve unless there is a decisive reversal of policy in belarus. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. to date, few indications of such a change have been foreseen. the separation of powers which is central to a democracy is absent in belarus today. the commission is also proposing to amend the existing rules on the protection of personal data. but on october 17, belarus will not only elect a new parliament, but president lukashenko has also announced that a special referendum on amending the constitution will take place. the referendum is about changing the constitution to allow his own re-election. this is unacceptable from a democratic point of view. since taking office in 1994, lukashenko has dictatorially strengthened his position as president. if this latest attempt to not limit the number of terms a president can serve gets a majority, it means that lukashenko will very likely serve at least five more years. that's if i've got the right count, a continuous period of 17 years. we must work together to increase support for democratic development in belarus and to counteract the isolation of belarusian society and people, which many have spoken about. the union must continue to support the development of a pluralistic society, human rights, the fight against trafficking in women and violence against women and civil, democratic society. it is also of the utmost importance that the entire international community should come to the aid of the presidential elections, to show that it matters and that we are committed to belarus developing in a democratic direction and, as many have said, that we support the people of belarus. we cannot turn our backs on the people.
in writing. we shall abstain from voting on this report. we do not regret the fact that the eu budget is in surplus, but welcome the fact that this leads to lower membership fees for eu countries. in order to reduce the flow of money, and in the long term also the eu administration, membership fees should be permanently reduced. we want to see a general review of the financing of the eu budget, which should lead to a uniform system of payments.
i am a new member of parliament representing junilistan. it is the new party in sweden that in the last european parliament elections got 15 percent of the vote. i would like to take this opportunity today to set out the main lines which we believe should form the basis of the eu's fiscal strategy. the overall principle should be that the total budgetary expenditure of the eu should not exceed 1% of the total gdp of the eu countries. we therefore support the position taken by a number of countries, including the swedish government. the expenditure ceiling should not only apply to the next financial year 2005, but also apply in the long term. a credible restrictive spending ceiling could meet the critical public opinion which fears that the eu is growing into an overly dominant superstate. we do not believe that the eu should be involved in far-reaching transfers between countries and regions. experience shows that such transfer schemes have a negative impact on long-term growth. my second point concerns the fact that some countries are now paying far more than we are getting back in the form of grants. the net contribution should therefore not exceed, as proposed, 0,4% of the country's gdp. each country should thus be able to waive its contribution and thereby reduce its overall gross contribution to the eu. such a system would provide considerable administrative relief, as the work on grant applications today draws on large resources that could be used more productively. the third point is that we reject the idea that the eu is acquiring its own resources by imposing taxes or levies on us. the collection of taxes and duties is the sole responsibility of the national parliament. with a strict spending ceiling, own resources cannot allow for increased spending either. the special exceptions that exist must be eliminated. my final point is that the eu must have a budgetary margin within the spending ceiling so that the eu can act quickly in crisis situations. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the eu should not make promises of grants that are not covered by the expenditure ceiling. discussions on enlargement of the union must be based on realistic analyses of the economic consequences of enlargement. new commitments, programmes and pledges of grants may be honoured only in the context of the reallocation of old appropriations. a review of agricultural aid could in the long term create scope for support for the countries with the weakest economies. we will vote on future budget proposals in accordance with these intentions. thank you for your attention.
my colleagues! in sudan, a humanitarian disaster of almost unimaginable proportions is taking place. according to the un world health organization, about 10,000 people die every month in the refugee camps in darfur, western sudan. most of these are children. the world knows what is happening in sudan, but it is still paralysed by this humanitarian tragedy. we agree that the outside world must act now. the question is how best to resolve the conflict. two principles are important to keep in mind. first, broad international coverage. secondly, respect for international law. an intervention in sudan must be based on a un mandate. this will ensure the greatest possible international integration. the un should act in cooperation with the african union. the action will thus be anchored among the african countries, facilitating a lasting solution. the un structure that can be used is, for example, the multinational force shirbrig. this task force was one of the un actors in the conflict between ethiopia and eritrea. the eu's military action risks undermining the prospects for a successful un intervention. the eu's plans to intervene in the sudanese conflict also appear to be a stepping stone towards the creation of an eu army capable of acting without a un mandate. the eu constitution allows the eu to intervene in conflicts without the support of the un. this risks undermining international law. action within the un framework is the best way to create a broad international consensus to resolve the conflict. the action will also be carried out within the framework of international law. the solution to the conflict will thus be more legitimate and more sustainable. thank you for your time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate on iraq has so far often been about the slow pace of normalisation in the country and there has been much criticism from various quarters of developments in iraq. questions such as "is it better now?" have been heard, and one wonders whether the military presence really leads to peace. to those who are wondering, i can ask a question: have you ever been in the middle of a burning war and really wished that someone from outside, the united states, the european union or nato, would come and intervene in your country? i do, and i also have a definite answer to this question: yes, military presence can lead to peace. i represent sweden in the european parliament, but i was born and raised in the balkans, a part of europe that has seen many wars and much suffering. i have experienced the war in bosnia and i know that it is very easy to start a war and that it is very difficult to stop it. it is even harder and takes even longer to rebuild the country, and even longer to restore trust between people. i have a feeling that those who criticize the process in iraq today have never been anywhere near a war. it also reminds me of the saying, "the full understands not the hungry". it is so easy to see obstacles and problems and what can be done better and faster, but the fact is that many of today's iraqi problems are an old legacy of saddam hussein's dictatorship. the fact is that iraq today is a better iraq without saddam. we must make sure that we are involved in helping to make iraq an even better iraq tomorrow. in the case of the balkans, the outside world has understood and accepted that it takes a long time to rebuild a country, both literally and figuratively, but there is very limited understanding that the progress towards peace and democracy in iraq will take time. the eu must now stand up for our values of freedom and unitedly actively support the forces that want to build a new iraq, a sovereign and democratic country that takes its place in the international community. (applause) i would like to thank you.
thank you, mr president. the commissioner! it is not the first time that we have spoken about iraq in this house and it is quite natural because events in iraq dominate the international news flow. the reports are disturbing. the terrible violence, the terror against women, children and civilians. mostly iraqis, of course, but also foreign journalists, aid workers, businessmen and military personnel. the abductions are absolutely abhorrent and it is good that we in this house are in agreement one hundred percent at least on our demand that the abducted be released and that the violence must end. the liberal group of course rejects any kind of violence and calls on the iraqi authorities to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. in this context, we also regret the reintroduction of the death penalty. we are divided on the iraq issue, as are many other countries, in many other parts of the world, and this has meant that we have only been able to agree on a rather watered-down resolution. i still hope we can put the past behind us and look forward. the whole world has a responsibility to support the iraqi people and the development towards a democratic and sovereign iraq that takes its place in the international community. we in the eu can provide support in many ways in cooperation with the un and international bodies. we have a role to play in supporting elections, the economy, building civil society and drafting a democratic constitution. in the future, a un-led multinational force must take responsibility for the security of iraq, and the eu and its neighbours can play an important role in this. of course, the ultimate responsibility lies with the iraqi people, but we all have a responsibility to make this process a success, for the sake of iraq but also for the stability of the whole region. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. we believe that the european union's fisheries policy must be reviewed. over-exploitation of fishing waters drives people into ever greater poverty and deprives the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain. it would be better if the countries with which the union has fisheries agreements were instead given assistance so that they could develop their own fisheries. we do not accept amendment no 7 by alde/adle, which provides the commission with an independent source of revenue. we believe that if the union concludes a fisheries agreement with a third country, the total amount of the financial compensation to that third country should be financed by the member states of the union whose fishing vessels are taking advantage of the agreement in question. the member states may then decide whether they will finance this expenditure by charging fees to their fishing vessels.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in modern economies, the budget balance acts as an automatic stabilizer of the real economy. stability in the real economy and hence in employment therefore presupposes instability in the budgetary balance. the stability pact was therefore fundamentally flawed. by emphasising the stability of public finances, it contributed to the instability of employment. the commission's reform plan is therefore a step in the right direction, but it is a cause for concern. this step is taken because large and powerful countries failed to meet the requirements set out in the stability pact. intellectual arguments and political will to stabilise employment were not enough. it does not bode well for continued cooperation within the eu that power is more important than intellectual arguments. it was therefore right, and important, to require that large countries also comply with the rules in force, even when they are less appropriate. the problems are now decreasing for countries with high structural budget deficits such as france and germany, but increasing for countries with high public debt such as italy, greece and belgium.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to start by saying something, let's look at what is really important in the european economy, and that is that we have low inflation and low interest rates in the entire european economy today. it's easy to look back to the 1970s and see what it was like then, because then we had high inflation, high unemployment and governments that were thinning their budget deficits. thanks to the stability and growth pact, we have a common code and a common criterion to counteract this. the paradox is that we have this debate today in part because the stability pact has worked as it should. it has put political pressure on those countries which are increasing their deficits and is therefore in the interest of all of us whether we have the euro or not, whether we are in monetary union or not. the fundamental problem of the european economy, which affects the image of the stability pact, is that too many countries have economies that are not flexible and that are not able to cope with the deficit situation in the worst of times. i would like to say that there is a direct link between the stability pact and the lisbon process, because either we have a flexibility that develops in the national economies of the member states, which gives dynamism and growth, or which gives a more flexible interpretation of the rules, but we do not solve europe's problems by introducing other rules. i would therefore appeal to the commission that whatever the criteria are, they must be objective and clear. the solution is not change, but the reform of the european economy.
at least 10 countries will vote on the constitution. this is wise, since a constitution regulates the power of politicians. it can only be given by the people, not taken from them. i hope my country becomes the 11th country that believes in democracy and lets the people decide in a referendum. the eu institutions must support the people and democracy by being neutral in their communication and objectively pointing out the changes compared to previous treaties. the role of the institutions is not to fix "yes" in referendums, but to give people the basis for decision-making. otherwise, the eu is violating its own democratic ideals. i am glad that the commission will not finance campaigns, but if it does, the yes and no sides must have equal resources.
this debate can be divided into two parts. portugal is reported to have at least 20,000 illegal abortions per year and among europe's highest rates of teenage pregnancy. the midwife maria do ceu, who performed illegal abortions, was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison. the portuguese women are not alone in being denied the right to free abortion, but so are the irish, maltese and polish women. women have the right to their own bodies and the right to sexual and reproductive health is enshrined in the convention on human rights, which all eu countries have ratified. states which have ratified international conventions shall also respect those conventions. the second part of the debate is about the action itself in the case of 'women on waves'. portugal, as a state, pledged to respect the four freedoms of movement when it joined the european union. the exception invoked is national security. i would like to refer to both community law and the convention on the law of the sea. i do not think portugal is such an unstable country that six people on a boat endanger national security. the principle of proportionality cannot therefore be invoked in the present case. finally, portugal has broken its promise to the eu, other member states and european citizens on free movement. i asked members to reflect on what it would look like in europe if other european governments were to consider which groups of citizens do not share the views of those represented by their government and call in the navy to prevent them from entering the country. this is clearly not an acceptable situation. the portuguese government's actions have challenged not only women and citizens throughout europe who want to protect human rights and respect for international conventions, but also the whole of the european idea and the free movement of people in europe. i would therefore urge both the commission and the council to take clear action on this matter without delay. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as all colleagues know, women have had the right to vote, to be able to decide for themselves and their property for more than a hundred years. in addition to taking responsibility for their own lives, women have also been responsible for the lives of their children. even though women have been able to legislate and so on for so long, we women are still clearly not able to decide about our own bodies and our own sexuality. the portuguese government's approach to 'women on waves' cannot be interpreted in any other way. the portuguese government's actions not only deprive us women of our rights, but also violate the european parliament's resolution to promote information campaigns on sexual and reproductive rights. i want to not only debate women's rights, but to put children at the centre of this debate. contrary to the views of some debaters and their lack of empathy and understanding, i would like to say that the lives of children are too important to be left to chance alone. children have an unrestricted right to be born welcome and with the conditions for a good life. i am not usually a conspirator, but i cannot help but wonder whether the portuguese government's actions are not largely due to the fact that it is women and women's organizations that are at stake. i'm thinking, if this ship we're debating had been men for violence as a conflict solution, i think that ship would have been allowed to dock. if the council and the commission are serious about the europe of women, then we cannot refrain from reacting to the actions of the portuguese government. now you must stand with the women and children.
our group has also signed the motion for a resolution and we think it is a very good resolution which we support in all its parts. but on two points i would like the commission to make clear what the eu's position will be in these negotiations. the first concerns the question of closed voting. there is now a debate about not having open votes where you report how countries vote on some positions. i think it is absolutely crucial for the political accountability of countries to be responsible for how they vote on this convention. can we trust that the eu will oppose with all its might the closure of voting in these elections, that is my first question. the second is a specific issue and concerns the protection of the great white shark. there seems to be a consensus here that a higher level of protection is needed, but i believe that, given the uncertainties about what stocks are left, the requirement of a zero export quota is very reasonable, given the precautionary principle. i wonder if we can trust that the eu will also support the demand for a zero export quota.
in writing. we do not consider this report to be a matter for the european parliament and have therefore decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have decided to abstain on a number of amendments. the aim is to ensure that there is a joint, strong resolution from the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have a historic enlargement behind us which contributes to the fact that we live today in a europe that is better than ever and better for our generation than for any previous generation. for this i think the commission and the member states deserve both thanks and congratulations. at the same time, a new europe is facing new challenges, and many of these challenges, it should also be said, have not been as well met by the commission as it is now. it's about the ability to overcome the temptations of national party politics. if you do not do this, you will not have the strength to push the european project forward strongly enough. it is about the ability to move the lisbon process forward, we are faced today with the challenge of ensuring that enlargement must succeed in a real sense, not just in the formal sense. it calls for a lisbon process that ensures that competitiveness can emerge in all parts of the union, and that the new member states are given the opportunity to grow on their own terms and not on someone else's terms. it also requires our ability to operate in an international context. the european union must have a credible policy for the middle east, and it is important that the union has the power and the ability to see the threats to peace. the great threat to peace in the middle east is not the small democracy but the big dictatorships. this is especially true of a country that openly supports terrorism. who have the open goal of destroying another country and who constantly show their rearmament through nuclear weapons and medium-range weapons. i believe that the european union must also develop a middle east policy which has the courage to deal with the problems that iran is facing today. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in the middle east seems to be completely locked down. arafat sits in his headquarters, old, isolated, sick and unable to lead his people. sharon is having setbacks after setbacks in his plan to withdraw from gaza. he seems to have lost both party and voters. the question is whether he is the man who can lead israel to peace. i don't think it was. the future of the gaza plan is now very uncertain and the violence in the area seems to be increasing, it's worse than it has been for a very long time. i don't think these gentlemen can bring lasting peace to the middle east. they cannot stop the killing, they cannot stop the violence, they cannot stop the acts of terrorism, and they cannot achieve what we all want in this house, two states living side by side in peace and respecting each other. this conflict has gone on for so many decades, has brought so much suffering. for the palestinian people, of course, but also for the israeli people who live in constant fear of terrorist acts and suicide bombings. we have had so many conferences, so many plans, so many meetings, so many debates in this house, but nothing happens. we must consider a concrete international presence in the area, which can monitor the withdrawal from gaza, but perhaps also in the longer term. after the us presidential election, whoever wins, the eu and the us will have to sit down and formulate a common strategy, perhaps based on a road map where they speak the same language and give the same signals to these two leaders. the whole world is gaining from peace in the middle east, and this is also an important part of the fight against international terrorism. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm going to do a general reflection. the eu now faces the difficult challenge of establishing common legal rules for the enlarged eu and soon for the even more enlarged eu. the requirement of legal certainty must be the same in the eu-30 as in the eu-25. we swedes are expected to hand over a 21-year-old, kalle jonsson, to greece under arrest warrants. kalle jonsson has been waiting for trial since 2001, for 3 years for a young person, is that reasonable? the eu's legal system is based on mutual trust. trust in each other's legal systems. most people in my country think that the eu is about trade and the single market, they have no idea that we should recognise each other's judgments, even in tomorrow's enlarged eu once again. and no matter how, for example, the admission has come. the eu already has and will have more problem areas within its own external borders. at the same time, it is necessary to build the necessary public confidence in the justice system in all member states. it's harder than getting citizens to sign the treaty. if the anchoring is not achieved within the time allotted, then enlargement is delayed or legal cooperation is weakened or even legal certainty is compromised. it's very simple. how can the commission do this, or are we talking about a dream, are we talking about a utopia? finally, thank you very much, mr vitorino, for helping us to move closer to that dream, and thank you very much, mr bourlanges, for showing that you intend to try to speed up this process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. local markets must be maintained while export growth is boosted. to do so, trade must respect the environment, human rights and social cohesion. in order to reduce suffering and poverty, the gsp must be made more generous. social and environmental clauses must be developed and we should support countries to develop eco-labelling so that they can be better paid for their products. the acp countries are making use of the cotonou agreement. they actually only use 2.6 percent of everything but arms. few acp countries have been able to make the most of cotonou. we must now help the rest of them to make greater use of both cotonou and everything but arms.
in writing. we have voted against this report. we believe that the common agricultural policy (cap) should be abolished. the enlargement of the union shows that it will be completely unreasonable to continue to pursue the cap in the way it has done so far. it would be unreasonable to drag new member states into a doomed system and to accustom them to the rules and subsidies of that system. we are increasing financial aid to the countries that are to become members of the union, but this must be channelled to the less favoured regions and focused on education, infrastructure and judicial institutions.
in writing. we moderates think it is wrong to support advertising of agricultural products with public funds, both within the eu and in the rest of the world. today, the eu, through the commission, advertises agricultural products such as tulip bulbs and olive oil at a cost of between eur 60 and 70 million annually. competitive products can do without these public funds, products that are not in demand should not be held in such a way with taxpayers' money. in today's vote we are casting our votes as we face a choice between two options, both of which involve continued support for the advertising of agricultural products.
in writing. we voted against this report in the vote. we believe that the common agricultural policy (cap) should be abolished and that agricultural products should be sold on a free market without the eu investing financial resources in information campaigns and sales promotion measures for these products. the eu's financing of promotion measures in third countries is particularly serious, as it constitutes unfair competition with agricultural producers in non-eu countries.
in writing. the undersigned voted in favour of this resolution in the final vote. we did so despite losing parts of the vote on points which we would have liked to have deleted from the resolution. the first concerns paragraph 3, which sets the date for referenda. we do not think that the european parliament should make any proposals on this matter. this also concerns paragraph 6, which calls on the council and the commission to draw up an appropriate campaign and information strategy. we believe that an information strategy is needed, but we do not believe that the council and the commission should engage in campaigning.
in writing. we are voting against the leinen report because we reject the proposal for a constitution or a constitution for the european union. the constitution increases the centrality of the eu and helps to transform it into a form of state with global ambitions. the eu constitution is of crucial importance for the future of europe and for the self-determination of the european peoples. it should therefore be decided by referendum in each eu country, with the 'yes' and 'no' sides given equal resources and the opportunity to participate in the debate on equal terms.
in writing. we have voted against this report because it is not in line with the subsidiarity principle which should be the basis for the construction of the european union. it proposes a european body for victims of terrorism (paragraphs 1b to 5), the creation at european level of a core of operational provisions on judicial and police cooperation (paragraphs 1c to 2), the establishment of a common data protection authority at european level (paragraphs 1c to 8), the strengthening of eurojust with a view to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office (paragraphs 2e to 2), etc. a uniform immigration and asylum policy is also to be established within the eu in a number of areas. we would like to see increased cooperation between member states on these issues for the development of a humane asylum policy, in accordance with the geneva convention, for the whole of europe. we reject, however, the development of a federal legal system, with ever-expanding institutions, to which the above proposals obviously refer.
in writing. we are in favour of the european union not pursuing a foreign policy. discussions on, for example, a peaceful solution in georgia will take place within the framework of the work of the member states in the united nations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. by creating a monetary union with a single currency, 12 of the eu member states have taken major risks with employment. the eu countries are characterised by a weak ability to adapt to various structural changes and are therefore plagued by persistently high unemployment rates. the risks of the euro are already clearly visible, especially in germany. this country has been subjected to an excessively tight monetary policy in recent years, and hundreds of thousands of german workers have thus been unnecessarily forced into unemployment. these problems will grow as the outflow of industrial activity to eastern europe and asia hits different hard in the euro countries over the next five years. unfortunately, the policies of the european central bank have exacerbated these unemployment problems in several member states. like most modern central banks, the european central bank works mainly with an inflation target. this is in line with economic theory, but the target has been chosen too low. the central banks of the united kingdom, sweden, new zealand and the united states have higher inflation targets. modern research suggests that the inflation target should be set at 2.5 or even 3 percent on average over a business cycle so as not to unnecessarily drive people into unemployment. the ecb and its principals should therefore raise their inflation target to at least 2.5% on average and deserve sharp criticism for their inability to align their policies with the way the european mixed economy works.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think i am the only car worker in this parliament. my previous job was in a car factory, so this debate concerns me a little extra. what we are seeing now is a huge push for change in the european automotive industry. factory against factory, workers against workers. the metalworkers are the ones who pay the price, through a high pace and a depleted work content. i mean, what's happening is, for the most part, unacceptable. it can't be that simple to just lay off thousands of workers. we must ask companies to take their social responsibility. they have a social obligation to those who work in the factories. they must engage in dialogue with the authorities and trade unions to find other solutions, such as reductions in working hours, instead of laying off workers. what we also see is that the regulatory framework is not enough. the need for stronger trade union rights and a strengthening of group trade union cooperation. i think it is good that the commission mentioned demand in its introduction. it is true that demand is too low, but one must also ask: demand for what? with the high price of oil and the great environmental problems, it is quite obvious that what we need most today are cars that run on something other than petrol, such as ethanol. here we can see how the european automobile industry is actually lagging far behind competitors in countries like the united states and brazil, where they are far ahead in developing more environmentally friendly vehicles. it is one of the sins committed by the management of the european automobile industry.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the restructuring of the automotive industry has been going on for a long time. in my own country, sweden, where the automobile industry plays an extremely important role, our large car companies have been bought up by multinational companies. that's the case in trollhättan, where gm now owns the saab factory. for the trollhat, this is a very big deal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. let me make this clear. it is not the employees but the company that has been making long-term errors of assessment in this case. let me also say that i am not opposed to restructuring. my party has always been open to restructuring, but it's important how you manage it. first of all, they have to be done under social responsibility. it is not just society that must assume social responsibility, but also companies. you have to involve the mercenaries. they must not be simply informed of decisions taken, they must be actively involved in the restructuring process. we must not, as is currently the case, play wage-earners against each other in different countries by saying: you must accept a lower social standard for us to be able to produce. we're not playing that game. some in our country say we don't need more cooperation at european level, but it's the opposite: we need more cooperation, both between the trade unions, where there is good cooperation between ig metall and the swedish metalworkers' union, and between politicians and trade unions. we also need political cooperation at european level. it is good to have a high-level group drawing up guidelines for industrial policy, but we also need the other side, namely a review of the directive on european works councils and the directive on collective redundancies. we need to strengthen those directives so that we strengthen the position of employees when restructuring takes place.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is interesting to note that the social democrats from sweden and germany, where the automobile industry is in trouble, are now leaving it to the eu to have the solutions to what are basically problems of the competitiveness of the national economy. you should not ask what the eu can do for national industrial policy, but what your own national governments can do for european competitiveness. this is a wake-up call to the ability of european industry to compete in the global arena. it is not that we now need a european car industry policy. we have experience from the 1970s when a state policy on shipyards was implemented in a wide range of european countries. it stopped development and it didn't lead to the preservation of jobs, it destroyed capital. what is needed now is a policy that allows european companies to develop their competitiveness. it is absurd that we in the european union should have a competition policy which makes it difficult for european companies to compete globally in a market where competition is global. the competitive situation cannot be assessed on the basis of national submarkets when we are dealing with an industry which requires global competitiveness. we must now ensure that we pursue a policy which strengthens competitiveness. none of the proposals put forward in this debate would lead to more cars being sold or produced in europe. they create false expectations and divert the focus from what needs to be done, namely to promote change and restructuring. above all, we need a lisbon process that makes european businesses competitive and that can bring more businesses to europe. that is what europe needs, not a european car policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have two reasons for voting against this commission proposal. the political composition is a clear step to the right for the eu. the market liberals and the bourgeois dominate most key areas. as a socialist, it is therefore self-evident to vote no. it is also clear that several of the nominees are clearly unfit for their duties. the committee hearing showed that the nominee, stavros dimas, lacked both the necessary knowledge and the vision for the future of environmental policy. similar problems exist in the energy sector. the nominee for commissioner for agriculture is a large-scale farmer, and the competition nominee has very strong links with large-scale industry. the one who is supposed to protect the rights of women, homosexuals and refugees is against gender equality, is homophobic and wants to restrict the right of asylum. you wonder if it could be much worse.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the growing number of eu citizens are concerned about the continuing undermining of the self-determination of the member states. despite all the talk about subsidiarity, political power is gradually being transferred to the institutions of the european union. yet barroso proudly points out that the commissioners he proposes are undeclared federalists from the right, the socialists and the liberals. they will work vigorously for the constitutional proposal, he promises. for those of us who have been given a popular mandate in democratic elections to work against the centralisation and bureaucratisation of the european project, for those of us who have been given a popular mandate to say no to the draft constitution, this commission is therefore unacceptable. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr barroso, you were appointed president of the commission after many meetings and negotiations and compromises behind the closed doors of the council. it's not an ideal procedure. the hearings with the rest of the commission are a way of democratizing this whole process. they are conducted with full transparency and with great interest from the media and the public. it forces each commissioner to rethink his vision and ideas. many members of the government had not passed such a review. now one of your commissioners has been rebuffed for the first time. it's about a person in a very, very sensitive position with responsibility for controversial issues related to discrimination, civil rights, refugees, police cooperation and the fight against terrorism. many of us do not trust the person responsible for these matters, which will be at the heart of the european debate. unlike the eurosceptics in this house, we believe in a strong commission. we want to have good cooperation with the commission, but we cannot support a commission with rocco buttiglione remaining in this post. you replace him, we'll back you up. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we swedish moderates take a stand on the commission as a whole. we do not want to contribute to voting here on the basis of what individual commissioners have held as their private views or moral views. we disagree with the views of a number of individual commissioners. i am a little surprised that the pse group has not raised any criticism at all against the commission nominee who has not yet wanted to distance himself from the prague invasion of 1968 and who knew nothing about his own political field. we disapprove of the views expressed by individual commissioners, but we assess the whole, much in the light of the fact that we also consider it natural that individual countries must be able to nominate their own commissioners if european cooperation is to work. we would have a hopeless task in european cooperation if religious views and private moral convictions were brought up at european level to be judged in this parliament. we would also be left with a hopeless task if parliament rejected the candidates put forward by the governments of the various countries. we will therefore support the commission, led by president barroso, also in view of the fact that there is now a long list of important tasks. it is about the new constitutional treaty. it is a question of ensuring the success of the enlargement now under way and of successfully negotiating with the new applicant countries, not least turkey. it is also about the success of the lisbon process. we are not going to have a debate that will lead to europe's failure in this. we are giving barroso our support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president barroso, the commission! half of europe's citizens are women. women who have been told that they are to be supported in marriage and are subordinate and that single mothers are worse mothers. this is not the basis of the eu's values and is unacceptable. the same values and rights apply to the eu's homosexuals. according to the un and the eu, human rights are also women's rights, just like the lisbon strategy and women's right to work and equal pay for equal work. these are facts and not just words, as you said in your introduction. the eu and the commission must respect women for the sake of the eu and for a europe of equality. you haven't listened to us, the people's representatives, either. i am sorry to hear that, mr barroso.
in writing. we are voting in favour of the cooperation agreements with russia, ukraine, georgia, kyrgyzstan, moldova, kazakhstan, uzbekistan, azerbaijan and armenia, as set out in this report. the agreements should not aim to strengthen the eu's foreign policy and its aspiration to become a global player. the agreements should place particular emphasis on economic development and respect for human rights.
in writing. we believe that the european union's development policy needs to be reviewed. we are positive about humanitarian aid and support for people in vulnerable situations. however, we believe that each eu member state should decide on the form of its various aid commitments. the united nations is the international organisation through which member states are able to coordinate their aid efforts. we are against the extension of the eu's powers to more and more areas and do not consider that aid is a matter for the eu. we have therefore voted against the proposed report.
in writing. the citizens of sweden have voted against sweden's participation in the third stage of monetary cooperation and against the introduction of the euro. nevertheless, we should have an opinion on the ecb's work on actions which also affect non-euro area countries. the junilists, however, believe that we should not take a position on the more specific proposals concerning the workings or design of the ecb and therefore choose not to take a position on the amendments that are before us. however, we cannot support paragraph 14, according to which parliament wants to increase the publicity for the euro. we also do not want to support paragraph 15, which says that parliament wants all the old and new member states to join the euro. sweden wishes to reserve the right to remain outside. we would like to stress the particular importance of new countries strictly complying with the requirement that the ratio of public debt to gdp does not exceed 60%. this requirement may not be applied as loosely as in the past. this is important in view of the financial stability of the eu as a whole.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank mr salvador garriga polledo for a very skilful work on the budget in a difficult situation. i would also like to express my satisfaction that in the past five years the commission has significantly improved its reporting on development activities, the area we are working on in the committee i represent here today. much remains to be done, not least in developing performance measures, but progress has undoubtedly been made. there is a strong consensus in the committee i represent that the union should give maximum attention to poverty and the millennium development goals in its external action. however, to achieve this, a larger share of the budget must be devoted to priority actions in low-income countries. today, only over 40 percent of the money goes there. that is why we have proposed changes in the allocation and, of course, additions to the council's proposals, both to strengthen the fight against hiv, malaria and tuberculosis and to specifically allocate more aid to asia, the region where the greatest number of poor people live. we also propose a new budget line of eur 10 million to tackle aggressively and effectively diseases other than hiv, malaria and tuberculosis, which claim many millions of lives every year, especially among children. these proposals can only be implemented if the flexibility mechanism can be used. we have no objection whatsoever to a contribution to the reconstruction of iraq, quite the contrary, but we cannot accept that it be at the expense of our long-term poverty measures. finally, since the committee on budgets' proposal, i have tabled three amendments on behalf of the committee on development. they do not involve new money, but involve moving a number of budget lines from heading 19 of the budget, external relations, to heading 21, development cooperation. we do not understand why poverty measures in asia and latin america should be allocated differently to the corresponding measures in africa. the budget should reflect policy objectives and not the commission's organisational structure. i hope that we will get support for our demands, not only at first reading but also at second reading.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i represent a party that has entered parliament this year. we do not think we can approve the 2005 budget. we consider this to be too much expenditure; commitments rise to 1.14% of gnp. this budget is to be the basis for future financial planning and we believe it could have been more restrictive. there are many areas where you could have saved. but we have nothing against re-prioritizing within the framework set by the commission and the council, and there are many well-motivated re-prioritizations. we do, however, of course think it is important to restrict agricultural subsidies very much. they represent 55 per cent of the budget, as michaele schreyer said, and that is completely unreasonable. i know that this is not in accordance with the treaty, but our proposal for development is, of course, to cut them down drastically and instead use the money for new initiatives. we argue for a percentage of gdp as our goal. it is not a stop to reform, but a demand for a re-prioritization. we also do not think that the lisbon strategy should be the basis for trying to extract substantial increases in eu spending. we believe, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that growth is a largely national issue which is not helped by increased eu spending and taxes. that's not the way to increase growth. therefore, we reject the very basic element of the underlying thought. i shall not go into all the details of the re-prioritization; that is a matter for discussion. we need a much clearer link between those who propose spending and those who are responsible for arranging the financing and getting the taxpayers' money in. it seems to me that parliament is postponing spending without taking the political responsibility to call for additional taxation. in the long run, it is not a good division of labour to have one person proposing expenditure and another person collecting the money. hence the tension.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i thank the commission for this reply, which i think was very good. the reason for the question is that not only the pharmacy issue but also the systemic company issue is mentioned in the advocate general's opinion. i interpret the answer to mean that the commission does not consider that there are any problems with the system operator and that its activities are in line with eu rules, which i think is a sensible position.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the council for its answer to the question. my follow-up question concerns the turkish penal code, which has been recently amended. if you look at this new law, there is a 305 article which still states that it is a crime punishable by imprisonment to talk about the armenian genocide in the media. that means that it is still strictly forbidden to mention the historical fact that hundreds of thousands of armenians were murdered in the last century in what is now turkey. will the council raise this article 305 in its contacts with turkey? what do you think of its contents?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner schreyer, i would like to thank you for your report. poverty in the world is great; it is not news. it is also not news that women are affected more than men. for many years we have talked about development, aid and solidarity, but in practice it has been about far too little money. instead, it has been about large sums of money that we in the rich part of the world have received at the expense of poor people far away. this is particularly true of the union to which i am, after all, proud to belong. poverty both within and outside the union affects women more than men. in europe and beyond, poverty is particularly widespread among women living in rural areas. yet, producing your own food is a step toward ending poverty. how can we in europe help women in the poorest countries? to me, the answer is simple. in fact, a large proportion of the world's farmers are women and our union has a crucial role to play in the food supply of developing countries. our agricultural policy of subsidies and export subsidies is a direct obstacle to the ability of a family in the developing countries to produce food for sale and to bring products into our part of the world. our policy is to shut them out. by contributing to our own producers, we dump prices on their market. the question of our agricultural policy is a stain on the eu. as you know, the responsibility does not lie with this house. it is no secret that european heads of state are responsible for the fact that about half the eu budget contributes to making the world's poor poorer. this reverse aid policy must come to an end. the commission's president-elect, josé manuel durão barroso, was reprimanded yesterday. the fact that we in this parliament have managed to come together and clearly state that we do not accept a commission based on homophobia and hatred of women is a great victory. we in parliament have the opportunity to do much more. i hope we will also be able to abolish the shameful agricultural policy. only then can we say that the european union is doing something to combat poverty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. poverty is increasing in the union, as has been said by speakers in this debate. is that not reason enough to abandon the neoliberal economic policy with the stability pact and the convergence rules? it has been shown that these policies do not lead to the elimination or reduction of poverty, on the contrary. patriarchal power structures permeate our whole society, in the member states and above all in the european union. the eu's economic policy is definitely not equal. it is largely designed by men and for men. there is no equality in economics, politics, education or health care. nor is poverty equal. women are the hardest hit and most vulnerable to poverty and the consequences of living in poverty. i must admit that it is sometimes quite tiring to hear, year after year, those in power utter all the beautiful words about the objectives of gender equality, of reducing poverty for women, etc., and at the same time to know that in practice very little is done. women's poverty is not a natural law. it doesn't have to be like this. with the right political and economic decisions, the situation can be changed. i would also like to ask why the principle of gender mainstreaming has not yet been implemented.
mr president, i would like to thank you. over half the world's population are women. two thirds of all work is done by women, but only one tenth of all income is earned by women. the beijing declaration on the goals of gender equality, development and peace and a plan of action to achieve these goals was adopted unanimously by 189 countries at the fourth un world conference on women more than ten years ago. eu member states were among these countries. the gap between words and deeds in women's rights is still alarming, with the result that poverty has been feminized in the world. we must invest in women in poor countries and thereby also fulfil the un millennium declaration which states that extreme poverty must be halved by 2015. there is no simple solution. poverty is not solved by money, but by a commitment to human rights and sustainable development. the nobel prize for wangari maathai is an example of what can be done. securing women's rights also secures land, water and livelihood opportunities and local development. we must dare to make demands on the outside world. it is therefore important that women are recognised as full citizens in aid policy, both as donors and as recipients of aid. i want to know how the commissioner is working in this area. almost half the world's population are men, to reverse the reasoning. one third of all work is done by men, but nine tenths of all income is earned by men. this is also the case within the european union, and i do not agree with the commissioner's description. wage discrimination is increasing and unemployment among women is increasing. women are poorer and have poorer health than men in the european union. as we now move towards the lisbon process, i would like to know what the commission is doing to ensure women's rights, to achieve sustainable economic development and to enable women to enjoy the rights they have been granted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was going to end with a thought-provoking thought. who gives a shit? who cares that over a billion people live in poverty in the world today, the vast majority of whom are women and girls? who cares that women are the sole breadwinners in one third of the world's households? who cares that women's sexual and economic subordination is the driving force behind the spread of the hiv and aids epidemic? who cares that 57 percent of all children who do not get any basic schooling are girls? who cares that a woman dies every minute from causes related to pregnancy and childbirth? who cares that nearly half of all births in developing countries are without a medically trained person present? who cares that 80 percent of all refugees around the world today are women and children? who cares that women and girls do two-thirds of the world's work for five percent of the income? i just wonder when europe and the world will start to take these matters seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our group, of course, also supports this resolution and the call for a moratorium on the use of this technology. today, we have overwhelming evidence that technology is harmful. for example, there is a clear link between military exercises using this technology and the high number of stranded whales. as mentioned earlier in this debate, there is only one amendment to this excellent resolution. it comes from the other side of this house, the ppe-de group. they want to soften one of the absolute keys by limiting the requirements not to use this technology to only certain geographical areas. this is something that would seriously damage the text. it is also a practical impossibility, since these are species that migrate over vast areas of the sea and cannot be confined to certain areas. it is also a matter of sound waves that themselves can travel hundreds of miles. we will vote for the resolution and against the amendment.
mr president, my group disagrees with this voting arrangement. we would like to state things in the most clear and transparent way, and therefore, in accordance with the rules, we request a roll–call vote. we are aware that this may prolong voting time, so i would add that the ind/dem group does not intend to block the majority view in the house. we just want to make it clear to the citizens of our member states. if you refuse our request for a roll–call vote, we will not insist this time.
in writing. the junilist rejects parliament's draft budget for 2005. the parliament's proposal would increase eu commitments to 1.24% of the eu countries' expected gnp. we believe that the commitments for 2005 must not exceed the 1.14% proposed by the commission. although payments do not yet exceed 1% of gni, they will eventually rise to the level of commitments in the 2005 budget. this forms the basis of the long-term financial framework. it is therefore important to bring the level down to a lower level as early as 2005. the objective should be to get below the 1% of gni expenditure ceiling. here is a selection of proposed cuts: - we believe that the eu should start cutting agricultural aid as early as 2005. the contribution to european political parties should be abolished altogether. - the contribution to tobacco cultivation should be abolished. it may be up to the individual countries to manage the transition for the farmers concerned. the contribution to information efforts may be reduced because we consider it politically difficult to provide objective information in the run-up to referendums on the constitution. we believe that it is up to the individual countries and their political parties to manage this information. the eu should avoid interfering in the democratic process in the member states.
in writing. the moderate delegation has today cast its vote in the final vote on the resolution. the resolution contains much that we consider to be laudable, but since we voted against several of the proposed increases in expenditure in the vote on the budget figures, it was impossible for us to support the conclusions of the resolution. we cannot support the general approach of raising budgetary expenditure to the levels proposed by the commission. nor can we support the sweeping phrases about more support for agriculture, the structural funds and information measures.
in writing. as the head of the development cooperation budget, i have been hearing about a clearer focus on poverty. the allocation for asia, where the majority of the poor live, has increased by eur 37 million compared with the previous year. funding for hiv and malaria is increasing. a new budget line of eur 10 million is also being set up for vaccination against childhood diseases, etc. i have voted in accordance with the following principles: (1) the cap needs to be reformed. export subsidies should be abolished as soon as possible, because of their serious consequences for developing countries. the aid for the transport of live bovine animals should be abolished. (2) environmental policy should be better integrated into other policies. this is particularly true of agricultural and regional policy. the following table is added: savings should be made in a number of areas. for example, the member states should have the primary responsibility for social dialogue. the following table is added: better information on european policy is needed for citizens. this is particularly true of the debate on the future of the eu and a new constitution. (5) the last but not least, enlargement and new foreign policy initiatives such as afghanistan and iraq, as well as work on global environmental issues, the hiv epidemic, etc., must not mean that the eu's budgetary ceiling is being reduced.
in writing. we do not believe that the eu should provide financial resources to bosnia and herzegovina to facilitate the transition to a market economy. we believe that the eu should have limited powers and that this is not a matter for the union. we are not against financial aid to other countries, but we believe that this type of decision should be taken at national level, or in the context of the un. we particularly question why the eu should support a reform of the financial sector in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. we do not believe that the eu should provide financial resources to serbia and montenegro to facilitate the transition to a market economy. we believe that the eu should have limited powers and that this is not a matter for the union. we are not against financial aid to other countries, but we believe that this type of decision should be taken at national level, or in the context of the un. we particularly question why the eu should support the privatisation of banks in serbia and montenegro.
in writing. we have voted in favour of paragraphs 1 and 2 because the use of high-intensity marine echolocation is a cross-border issue. cooperation within the eu framework is therefore justified. we have voted against amendment no 1 for two reasons. firstly, it is difficult to define the areas where sensitive marine species are found. second, the sounds associated with high-intensity marine echolocation spread over large areas. we have voted against the resolution as a whole because we are critical of amendment no 1 and we question whether the commission is the right body to carry out a study on the impact of high-intensity marine pollution on the marine environment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. once again, there are disturbing reports from iran of a 16-year-old girl being publicly hanged for a virginity offense. iran leads the international gang of criminals in executions. it's a management group with very little flattering company. this house always condemns execution, wherever it occurs. we will continue to do so, particularly with regard to minors. it is totally unacceptable and it is contrary to all international conventions. recently, the iranian regime has intensified its crackdown on journalists and dissidents. several journalists have been imprisoned, disappeared, tortured and killed. we must condemn it forcefully and demand that those still alive be released or that their families be informed. the so-called human rights dialogue we have been conducting with iran for several years has failed. we have to admit it. it must either be ended or radically redefined. has it led to anything? no, we can't point to any progress. we owe the iranian people a strong eu commitment to democracy and human rights in iran. if there is no success in this area, it is absolutely impossible for me and for the alde group to envisage any kind of association agreement with iran.
mr president of the council! the commissioner! always good to see you again. the eu's response to the tiananmen square events of june 1989 was the imposition of an arms embargo on china. it was our way of expressing our disgust at what happened to thousands of peaceful student protesters. since then, the world has changed. china has changed, but not the regime. china is the world's largest dictatorship. hundreds of thousands of dissidents are oppressed, imprisoned in labour camps, the country is a world leader in executions, human rights are violated daily, freedom of expression is severely restricted and any opposition is basically banned. the regime does not seem to be changing and we are now discussing whether to lift the embargo, even though there has been no change. what signals does that send to the outside world and to china? china is a great trading opportunity and we should trade with china, but we must not forget who we are dealing with. we cannot let down all the thousands, hundreds of thousands, of democracy activists, political prisoners, the young people who are surfing the internet in secret to find out what is really going on. all these people hope for europe. so we're gonna betray them by selling arms to the regime that oppresses them? we have to have european missiles and submarines directed at the democratic republic of taiwan? no, we have to be consistent. it's our credibility that's at stake, and it's more important than french mirage planes, swedish jas gripen or german submarines. the liberal and democratic group is counting on you, mr president-in-office, to stand up for human rights and to maintain the embargo and to send that message to the council.
for the group. now that the kyoto protocol can enter into force, it is important to look ahead to what we can do after 2012 with climate action. the commitments contained in the kyoto protocol are, as we all know, totally inadequate in the long term. it is also important that we have a discussion with the major developing countries, such as india and china, that they too must accept binding commitments to reduce their emissions in the future, emissions which are increasing very rapidly today. to make that possible, i think it's important to speak in terms of a fair environmental space in the long term, and that the only reasonable long-term allocation of the right to emit is that per capita. that is the reasonable objective in the very long term. the us presidential election is of course a serious setback for international environmental work and the us is likely to continue to act as a global anarchist in the environmental field for the next four years. we have no time to wait for the americans, but we know that the day will come when they will be forced to join this work for both economic and ecological reasons. then it is important that it is a strong and functioning job that they are welcome to. i'd like to take my last few seconds to thank you, margot, for the work you've done in these five years on environmental issues. it is not easy being an environment commissioner in the eu. i am sure there are opponents both outside and sometimes even within the european commission, but i am convinced that you have done this work as well as it is possible to do and for that you deserve all the thanks.
we are already seeing the effects today: glaciers are disappearing, the arctic is melting, we're getting shorter winters, more storms, more natural disasters and environmental refugees. the end of paragraph 2 of the resolution states that in the long term all the world's citizens must have the same emission allowances. this particular sentence makes a huge demand on us to take drastic action and reduce our emissions. we are not only stealing oil from the reserves of future generations, but also from the poor of the earth. when we discuss climate today, we can have a five-year perspective for the next election and avoid making difficult decisions, but the eu - parliament, commission and council - must collectively look beyond the re-election horizon and dare to make decisions that radically reduce emissions. otherwise we are committing crimes against humanity and the earth and risk being judged in the hague court in the autumn of our age, eternally judged by future generations. unless the hague is already under water, of course.
for the group. thank you, mr president, commissioner, and colleagues at this late hour! two years ago, we gave the sakharov prize to the cuban democracy activist oswaldo payá. it was the liberal group that had proposed him for this prize and he received it for his courageous struggle for democracy and justice in cuba. he received it as a representative of all cubans from different party groups, christian democrats, liberals, social democrats and others who are trying by peaceful means to pave the way for a new cuba without castro, whether he be called fidel or raoul. payá and the others are working for a cuba where democracy, human rights, pluralism, freedom and justice exist for all. it wasn't easy to get oswaldo payá here. the cuban regime tried several times to prevent him from coming, but it finally succeeded. unfortunately, we haven't been able to get him back. since oswaldo payá received his prize, the situation in cuba has deteriorated. some 80 democracy activists were arrested and sentenced to very long prison terms after farcical trials. they're scattered all over the island now. they're not well. it's a terrible situation, and they rarely get to see their families. many of them are sick. i've met a lot of these people. they are great, brave people who want to establish human dignity and democracy for themselves and their countrymen in a peaceful way. but for castro, the dictator whom many in europe still pathetically romanticize, these people are a mortal threat. that's why they were told to shut up, that's why they've been imprisoned. osvaldo himself is at large and his family is harassed daily. the situation in cuba, one of the world's last communist dictatorships, is worse. no progress has been made since the council tightened up its so-called common position. castro keeps going back and forth. he seems to want to isolate the country completely. he's boycotting the eu and our member states, just like the commissioner said. several meps have been refused entry into the country, including those from my country, sweden. the eu is currently discussing whether to relax or amend its common position. that would be very unfortunate. why should we reward castro when there's no progress on human rights? for once, the eu has taken a consistent line against a dictatorship. then why change it? oswaldo payá and the other dissidents are appealing to us to stick to the values and the line we have. it is therefore important to intensify dialogue with dissidents and to support a gradual democratic transition. we honoured oswaldo payá and the other cuban democracy activists here in this house, and that was a long-term commitment. we must stand up for human rights and forcefully reject a change in the common position. cubans have the same right to democracy and human rights as we do. let's show them what side we're on.
in writing. the report aims to amend the so-called argo programme by making it possible to provide financial support for national projects concerning the eu's external borders. the junilists support the idea of solidarity financing for the border guarding of the outer regions, especially since the enlargement to the east has meant that economically weak member states are facing high costs for this. however, the argo programme is part of the eu's objective of gradually establishing an 'area of freedom, security and justice'. this implies the implementation of a common policy on visa, asylum and immigration measures, something which junilista opposes. these issues are to be dealt with by the member states themselves in their own national parliaments. we therefore vote against the motion.
in writing. there are reasons to question the establishment of new eu bodies to support regions in their economic development. we see the danger that these bodies will become permanent and that this in turn will create a growing, and increasingly costly, bureaucracy. we therefore believe that the european agency for reconstruction should be dismantled by 2008. economic incentives should be used to promote peace and stability. the european union is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy for the protection of the rights of the child. we therefore support the commission's original letter in this respect.
in writing. we believe that the monitoring of arms exports should be carried out by the member states through their national legislation and through cooperation within the framework of the united nations. we are firmly opposed to the idea of an eu arms export control agency. as regards the question of the arms embargo against the people's republic of china, we have chosen to abstain in the votes on this question in the report. we believe that this is a matter for each of the national parliaments, such as the swedish parliament, to decide. we have also decided to abstain on the final vote on this report because it deals with matters which should be decided by the national parliaments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the delegation voted against paragraph 25. we wholeheartedly support the code of conduct, but we are opposed to talking at this stage about legally binding regulations and full harmonisation of member states' policies on arms export controls. we prefer political decisions in this area and want the member states to retain the ultimate decision-making power. we therefore consider that the question of a special tax on arms trade (paragraph 40) does not belong in this report. it is also paradoxical that the more guns are sold, the more the victims benefit. we cannot support this proposal without further information and preparation.
in writing. today the european parliament adopted a report on the european union code of conduct for arms exports. i voted in favour of the report as a whole. the report also calls for the adoption of a code of conduct on arms exports and calls on the council and the member states to maintain an arms embargo against china. the report also deals with the introduction of a special tax on arms exports. the principle of such a tax, the proceeds of which are intended to benefit victims of armed conflict and poverty reduction in general, is commendable. however, in order to be effective, such a tax should be global rather than european. in addition, a tax on arms exports should be seen in the context of other possible global taxes. nor is it clear how the taxation system will be implemented in practice. that is why i have today chosen to abstain on the specific question of a tax on arms exports.
in writing. peace and confidence-building measures in bosnia and herzegovina are highly desirable. however, we object to some of the points made in the motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we also do not support the statement that 'this operation will further strengthen the collective capacity for planning and managing military operations at eu level' (paragraph 11). the above and the general spirit of the motion for a resolution on the increased military capability of the european union are the reasons why we are voting against this resolution.
in writing. the moderate delegation in the european parliament voted today in favour of the resolution on climate change. we regret, however, that the resolution does not seriously address the question of how we are to manage our future energy supply. the resolution should emphasise that the early phase-out of safe nuclear power by several member states is undeniably leading to increased carbon dioxide emissions. instead, these countries should be encouraged to continue using nuclear energy, an efficient energy source that does not adversely affect climate change. otherwise it will not be possible to meet the requirements of the resolution.
in writing. global climate change is a problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level. we are, however, questioning the need for a common approach to the eu's response to the climate change conference to be held in buenos aires. in our view, the individual member states should decide independently on their national position in the run-up to this conference. in addition to this basic position, we question paragraph five of the resolution, which calls on the european parliament to call on those countries which have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol to do so. we believe that each country should decide its position on this protocol at national level. we also oppose the idea that the commission and the member states should emphasize the need for climate protection in the context of dialogues with other countries. we believe that each member state must be allowed to determine its own national position. the european parliament is using an important global environmental conference to extend the supranational dimension of eu cooperation.
in writing. the resolutions tabled by the various political groups contain many well-formulated and well-designed proposals to achieve the goal we all seek: an open, democratic and parliamentary government in cuba. however, we believe that the european parliament is the wrong forum to deal with this issue. the work to achieve a democratic cuba will be conducted within the framework of the united nations and through an exchange with cuba whose scope and structure will be determined by national parliaments around the world. we accept a common trade policy for the eu and therefore call on the union to open negotiations on a trade agreement with cuba, as well as with the other latin american countries.
in writing. this motion for a resolution, which is outside the legislative procedure, contains some sensible points of view on various subjects, but also some points of view with which we cannot agree, particularly with regard to the call for a 'single and comprehensive european asylum and immigration policy' (paragraph 11). the commission has also proposed a number of amendments which are a matter for the national parliaments to deal with. we have decided to abstain on the vote on most of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution and on the vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole. we have also voted against amendment no 2 by the liberals, as we do not believe in the idea of establishing a 'european school for judges' a school for judges within the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen of the house, the swedish junilistan party intended to vote against barroso's first proposal for two reasons. firstly, we considered that he had negotiated with the governments to produce an extremely federalist commission. secondly, we felt that he had shown very poor judgment in proposing mr buttiglione as the person responsible for women's equality and gay rights. on the other hand, we had no objection to mr buttiglione as a member of the commission in another capacity. of course, there must be no discrimination against catholics or other religious groups. now that latter mistake has been corrected, but the new proposal is even more federalist than the previous one. it reflects the will of the political elite rather than the will of the people. the junilista has been given its mandate by voters who oppose the continued centralisation and bureaucratisation of the european project. we shall therefore vote against the barroso proposal. thank you for your time.
the commission is not prepared to do that. instead of doing a major cleanup when you moved in, you swept some of the problems under the rug. they'll lie there and ferment and burn and one day they'll jump up and cause trouble. by delaying problems, you have created obstacles to the success of the commission. you should have switched portfolios with those commissioners who have economic interests in their own domains. ski instructor frattini has done a skilful political slalom between interrogations, but he fails to take a serious fight against collective expulsions. dimas is a trustworthy man, but he seems more interested in corporate politics than the environment. if there is viagra to increase the appetite for environmental issues, i hope you have a stockpile ready for him so that the commission does not have an impotent environmental policy. until you fix these problems, i regret to say no to the commission.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not prepared to do that. your new commission has a great responsibility for european economic development and for its respect for the environment, and it also has a great social responsibility. the lisbon process is today like an elephant, an oversized elephant in an exclusive glass shop. very difficult to handle. i hope that the new commission will find the strength and courage to develop new ways of working and thinking about this issue of the utmost importance to europe, sustainable economic growth. it is not a prestige project, but a project of the utmost importance to the people who live and work in the geographical area for which parliament and the commission have a very great political responsibility.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the great challenge now is to make enlargement a success and to ensure that europe has a dynamic economy. but it is also about breaking away from a europe that was divided and that has a history that can never be forgiven. it is against this background that i must say that it is regrettable that a commissioner who has served the dictatorship for 20 years does not consider that he has anything to regret. nothing to regret after 20 years of service to the dictatorship. it says more about the hungarian government and the socialist group than it does about the commission, because the responsibility does not fall on the commission or the president. it is also interesting to note the debate we have had here today. the socialist group obviously thinks that it is worse to have a background in free enterprise than to have a background in one of europe's brutal dictatorships and not to have any regrets today. it's a hard thing to explain and a hard thing to defend. but now the task is to give europe a boost, and it is against this background that we give president barroso, with the commission, our support. it's about deregulation, it's about opening up to freedom and openness. it is about representing a europe based on the ideals of freedom and democracy, it is about accelerating the lisbon process and it is about giving europeans the greatest opportunities. that is where this commission will be good and we will give it our support. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. the swedish junilistan party intended to vote against barroso's first proposal for two reasons. firstly, we considered that he had negotiated with the governments to produce an extremely federalist commission. secondly, we felt that he had shown very poor judgment in proposing mr buttiglione as the person responsible for women's equality and gay rights. we had no objection to mr buttiglione's appointment as a member of the commission in another capacity. of course, there must be no discrimination against catholics or other religious groups. the latter mistake has now been corrected, but the new proposal is even more federalist than the previous one. it reflects the will of the political elite rather than the will of the people. the junilista has been given its mandate by voters who oppose the continued centralisation and bureaucratisation of the european project. we have therefore voted against the barroso proposal.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, as it mainly deals with the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2003. we object to the fact that the report refers both to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and to the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. we do not support these parts of the report, although we vote for them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we who have the privilege of living in stable democracies sometimes forget that human rights, democracy and secret elections are not all given. many of the members of this house have personal experience of what it means to live under authoritarian regimes and what it is like to have to fight for democratic rights. many of these countries are now members of the european union. an example of what can happen when people are allowed to choose their own path. the democratic celebration we are witnessing in the streets and squares of ukraine, where hundreds of thousands of people defy the snow and cold and cheerfully demonstrate for their rights in a well-organized and peaceful manner, has impressed the whole world. our support for the pro-democracy movement is great and is proved, as so many have said, by the fact that we all wear orange scarves. we, like the ukrainian people, reject this election, which is surrounded by so much fraud, harassment of journalists, vote buying, lies and other things that are not really part of free elections. we support the demand for a second round of elections under completely different circumstances. it was pleasing to hear from the commissioner that europe intends to take part in such a large scale in a possible second round of elections and it is to be hoped that this commitment will continue in the same way and with the same vigour after the elections, whatever the outcome. i would like to address the representatives of the ukrainian parliament, if they are still here, and tell them that the message from here that the ukrainian people, like everyone else, have the right to freedom and democracy and to shape their own freedom, has the support of this house, from right to left. we're with you in your fight. good luck with that. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what we are seeing in eastern europe is a second wave of the struggle for democracy. it is the same as it was 15 years ago, and events will be as decisive for europe and for what europe will look like in 10 to 15 years and beyond as events were 15 years ago. it is crucial that we see the seriousness of the crisis unfolding, where the old dictatorship is trying to steal the new democracy from the people. we must beware of a repetition of a development which could lead to a new balkans. it raises a number of important questions, not least as the vatanen pointed out, about how we will look at russia's own development towards democracy, something that requires consistency and clarity. it raises questions about how we ourselves should be able to respect our own common security and foreign policy and it is a crucial test of how we are able to act. i think it is important that we act not only in the light of the gravity of today's events but also in the light of the worst that can happen in the coming days and months, which makes the situation extremely serious and calls for action now. it is necessary to send a clear message to the russian and ukrainian leadership. our only concern should be with the people of ukraine and with democracy.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. as a member of the ad hoc committee, i abstained from voting on a resolution which i had not been informed of before and which i cannot support. i would like to sum up my position here, which is different from that of the temporary committee. i support the idea of a ceiling on expenditure for the next seven years until 2013. i think it is important to have a ceiling which applies not only to expenditure and payments but also to commitments. i think it is important not only to reject this view, which only six of the twenty-five countries are said to have supported, because these are the major net contributors. it should be stressed that consensus on this issue is required for the adoption of a financial framework and that there is a very strong desire not to place too great a burden on national taxpayers. it is also regrettable that the commission's proposal was based on the old report of the committee on the environment. i think that the 1% target should have been taken as a starting point, but that parliament should have a great deal of influence on the allocation of resources within this framework. in other words, this is not a tactic to shift resources to one area or the other. only in this way can a true prioritisation of resources be achieved. i also support the seven-year plan because it sets the budgetary rules in each country, an activity which is not financed by parliament but by the national parliaments. we are firmly against the introduction of eu taxation, because it would lead to a loss of control over the whole of taxation. i would also like to stress that we do not believe that agriculture should be exempted from the kind of re-designation needed to invest in new areas. such redesigns open up many new initiatives.
, for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? relations with russia are very important for the eu. russia is our neighbour and its size, history and location enable it to play a very important role and be a constructive partner on the european continent. we have many interests, common problems that we must solve together and our group supports the partnership with russia and wants it to be strengthened, deepened and developed. but it must be said that the russian strategy has not been very successful so far. it's like we're just standing around, trying to get nowhere. russia does not want to accept that eu policy is based on certain values that cannot be negotiated away, that must be seen as a red thread in everything we do, and that cooperation is based on give and take. there is reason to be very concerned about the latest developments in russia. i am thinking of the concentration of power in the kremlin, of the media situation - there is virtually no free media any more - and of the lack of a political solution in chechnya, and, most recently, of putin's support for yanukovych in ukraine and, earlier, for lukashenko in belarus. relations between the eu and russia are at a critical juncture and we cannot describe the last meeting as anything other than a failure, although i really admire and share your optimism, madam commissioner. you mentioned that it was decided to cooperate more closely in a more organised way on human rights and minorities. i hope that this will lead to something more concrete so that it is not just a cosmetic discussion club, but that difficult issues can really be resolved in this forum. it would be interesting to hear if you could go into more detail on this decision.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the new map of europe has been redrawn with this year's enlargement and most of the new member states and those currently negotiating membership have had strong ties to russia in one way or another. sometimes these bonds were formed willingly, sometimes they were unwillingly. russia thus continues to play a major role in the stability of the eu, not least in the area around its eastern borders, but it must not actively side with dictatorships or oppose the development of democracy. if this happens, the eu must say no forcefully. the events surrounding the elections in serbia a few years ago, which resulted in milosevic's resignation, remind me a lot of what is happening in ukraine today. the crisis was resolved peacefully then, and we must ensure that it will be so this time too. but that requires europe to show its willingness to cooperate with russia on the one hand and to stress that russia must not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, whatever their past history with russia may have been. if russia is serious about being a strategic partner of the eu, it must be clear that the cornerstones of this cooperation must be freedom, mutual respect and the democratic values that eu countries share. i have no specific questions to put to mr waldner, but i would like to stress that neither the eu nor russia can ever have any other interest in a country than the interest of democracy, and that this must be both the starting point and the goal of cooperation between the eu and russia.
for the group. thank you to the commission for a good statement! millions of people in the south are suffering from hiv/aids and, weakened by hiv, fall victim to other diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. millions of children without parents toil their bodies to grow the food they need. many of them do not have access to any medicines, and almost none of them have medicines adapted for children. exceptions to the trips agreement allow the export of generic medicines, but eu countries are slow to implement them, a delay which leads to suffering and which increases the suffering and the number of deaths every day. today the commission and the council have the chance to show that this waiting is coming to an end. however, improved access to medicines must be combined with increased hiv information and knowledge, ambitious aid policies and fair trade so that these countries can afford economic development that develops trade.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i remember when the hiv epidemic started to develop in the 1980s. even then, forecasts predicted that the epidemic could spread as severely as it does today in parts of the world, not least in africa. but such forecasts were dismissed at the time as mere doomsday prophecies. as a result, the world for too long - too long - turned a blind eye to the severity of the epidemic and did too little to develop effective prevention programmes, including contraceptive counselling, to expand care for the sick and to support research into more effective medicines and an effective vaccine. today, the world has finally woken up, but prevention efforts are still inadequate. if we do not do more than we are doing now to prevent the spread, experts say the epidemic will not reach its biological peak until 2060. i dare not think of the consequences that would be in terms of human suffering and economic and social crisis. let us regard this resolution as a strong call to decision-makers worldwide, and not least to the european commission and the governments of the member states, that we must continue to give even greater priority to the fight against this epidemic in the future. this requires that we allocate significantly more resources, both to our own hiv programme and to the global fund. if we do not, the consequences will be disastrous from the humanitarian, economic and social point of view, as well as from the point of view of security and stability. the commission has been very ambitious in its strategy for combating hiv in recent years, but like bowis and van lancker, i believe we need much more ambitious approaches in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today the european parliament is paying attention to the international aids day. it is important that we give our full support to those affected and that we take our part of the responsibility for public health very seriously. for the first time since the discovery of hiv/aids, more women than men are now infected. in some areas young women are up to two and a half times more likely to be infected than are young men of their age. in some countries, nearly 60 percent of those infected are women. many women and girls are particularly vulnerable to infection because of the risk-taking behaviour of other men and the unequal views of sexuality and sexual rights for men and women in the world. the consequences of the hiv/aids epidemic are far greater for women and children than for men and boys. this year's theme for the united nations agency unaids is 'women, girls, hiv and aids'. when family members become ill or die, it is especially the women and girls who have to care for their relatives. when health systems are overwhelmed or collapse as a result of hiv/aids, it is women and girls who must make up for it with increased care and attention at home. women also do not have the same access to health care or medicines to slow down the disease as men. likewise, old, traditional views, such as the right of men to sex, leave many married women unable to protect themselves from infections brought by their husbands after they have been unfaithful. that is why it is shocking that the vatican today in the newspaper el pais calls aids a moral immunodeficiency. i believe that blaming the sick is both inhumane and unchristian. gender equality and sexual and reproductive health and rights must be shared objectives of all countries of the world, and above all a responsibility of all men. women must be empowered in their negotiating position on condom use. women must be given more rights and better living conditions overall. we're all losers today, but a new hiv drug is now being tested in sweden that, if it works, will be a world sensation. a preventive vaccine is something we all dream of, so let's hope for a positive outcome. (applause from the left)
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner reding, welcome to the bureau. the consideration of safer use of the internet is different from many of the other issues that we politicians are accustomed to deciding on, but the internet and new technologies require political knowledge and decision-making. before being elected to the european parliament, as a social democrat woman, i was involved in the debate on violence, violent pornography online and the exploitation and abuse of children and young people. i am still involved, but now as both an eu parliamentarian and the chair of the violence reporting council/media council in sweden, which is responsible for these issues. in my national experience, i am particularly pleased that the eu is taking its responsibility to make the internet safer for children and young people and to continue to be both a source of pleasure and development, not just for children and young people but for all those who like to surf and chat online. i have spoken in committee specifically about the children's perspective. it is a future industry that makes a lot of money and we as politicians must demand that the industry take responsibility and pay for filters and other things that can remove and protect against the avarice on the internet. in sweden, by participating in this eu project for the future of the internet, we have been able to highlight the differences between what parents know about what their children do online and what children say their parents know. it is clear that parents need support to follow the development, which we have also been able to offer in the eu project in sweden by producing a handbook, among other things. i think we should try to continue such cooperation and exchange of experience in the eu. self-cleaning and cooperation are therefore what is needed and through the report by mrs mastenbroek parliament has been given a good opportunity to make the internet safer.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the court's annual report is essentially a competent and convincing review of the european communities' accounts. but it is a scandal in itself, as we all know, that for the tenth time the court of auditors is unable to produce a clean audit report. it is therefore clear that the court of auditors does not devote itself to trying to expose fraud and other crimes. that is olaf's job, and there are scandals like this all over the eu too. among eu parliamentarians and officials, there is open talk of scandals that have never been brought to the public's attention and shunned, despite the fact that they are well known to many. we find that the court of auditors cannot approve operations relating to agricultural policy, structural policy, aid and preaccession aid. these are the transactions which are the most dominant in terms of volume and which in turn mean that the vast majority of these payments are beyond the control of the citizens. it also means that the eu should not be involved in paying out money to countries and organisations which are then tasked with spending the money at the whim of the eu authorities. such a system is unlikely to be brought under control. there is really no reason to pursue these activities which cannot be controlled in areas such as agriculture, structural policy and aid. there are reasons for helping poor eu countries but it should be done through unspent transfers. aid to non-eu countries should not be channelled through eu authorities but through un agencies or directly from the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank fabra vallés and the court of auditors. as a new member, i have to say that this has been a very exciting read. although the court's language is polite, the criticism is very sharp. i am surprised that the shortcomings were so great and i think that ten years without a positive audit report speak their own unambiguous language. for me, perhaps the most striking are the shortcomings in the most basic of things, namely the shortcomings in the accounting system itself. we cannot accept less than that these problems be dealt with as quickly as possible. i would like to focus on something else entirely. two important issues are being debated in this house today: this audit report and the question of the eu's budgetary plan. i think it is high time that we linked these two issues. the court's report contains important and weighty criticisms which must be taken into account when planning for the future. after reading the report it is clear that in many areas the union is not able to make a sensible use of the money allocated. still, most people seem to argue for more money. similarly, the court of auditors shows that the use of union money is limited in many areas. yet many people want to put more money in that area. in areas where the need for reform is great and where there are many problems, the problems are not solved by allocating more money. that is why i would like to appeal to more than just the commission, namely to the members of this house and others, and to invite all those who seriously wish to debate the question of the budgetary plan, the economic future of the european union, to actually read this audit report and take its contents very seriously. there is a lot of weight there that is lost to the eu if it is not taken into account.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in accordance with rule 168 (2) of the rules of procedure, i ask on behalf of my group that the vote be postponed and the matter be referred back to committee. the reason is rule 35 of the rules of procedure, which deals with the examination of the legal basis. article 18 (3) of the treaty explicitly excludes passports and residence permits from the union's fields of competence. the proposed legal basis of article 62 refers to procedures and standards for member states to carry out controls but not to the competence over passports. i ask for a referral back to committee so that the legal affairs committee can express its views on the legal basis of both this report and the report on residence permits which will be discussed at the next partsession. we also ask that the opinion of the legal service be supplemented, since they themselves admit in paragraph 50 that they do not have the competence to assess whether all measures fall within the framework of the legal basis. the us court of auditors has also written a report which highlights the costs and problems of biometric data, so i also question the effectiveness of the measure as such and wonder whether the council has sufficiently investigated this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there's been some confusion here. it is therefore the liberal group which has tabled this oral amendment under article 4. i'll read it to you in english.
in writing. the moderate delegation in the european parliament voted today in favour of the coelho report because the parliament's views on the text would have greatly improved the original proposal if parliament had had the right to vote. we would like to stress, however, that we have our doubts about the proposal as such. there are significant risks associated with the collection of biometric data of human beings. privacy is threatened by the creation of large databases where data protection can be difficult to maintain in the long term, especially if the possibilities for correcting errors are weak. moreover, there is insufficient evidence that these measures actually protect society against terrorism.
in writing. biometric data can help to make our identity documents more secure by making it more difficult to forge passports. while the right to be unidentified is not a human right, citizens' rights must be protected by clearly defining how, for what purposes and by whom data is used. the creation of a central database at eu level would be contrary to both the principle of proportionality and the principle of purpose and would increase the risk of misuse, as well as of the aggregation and compilation of data in contexts other than those for which they were collected. the council is and shall be the sole decision-making body on the standards and procedures to be followed by the member states when carrying out checks on persons at the external borders of the union. however, the council is obliged by the procedure to consult the european parliament, which is why we have chosen to express our support for the fact that the legal security and privacy aspects are better addressed by the committee's report than by the commission's original proposal.
in writing. we support a free and democratic ukraine and thus the main arguments in the resolution. ukraine is a potential member of the eu and therefore democratic development must be ensured. but we are firmly opposed to the eu being given an increasing role in foreign and security policy. the osce, as the only pan-european security organisation, and as the observer of the ukrainian elections, should have the primary responsibility for mediating the conflict between the government and the opposition. the eu should therefore act within the osce framework.
in writing. the junilista has chosen to vote against the resolution because we do not want to promote 'parliament's priorities' under any circumstances. all the debates, and especially the negotiations for the 2005 budget, have clearly shown that the current parliamentary majority is in favour of a sharp increase in eu spending and thus also of a sharp increase in membership fees for sweden. we support the swedish government and the other five countries which have made it clear in a joint letter that the eu budget, both in terms of payments and commitments, should not exceed 1% of the eu's common gnp. parliament should also be free to review all expenditure, including agricultural subsidies, in order to prioritise aid to the 10 new members. the junilists believe that a strict spending framework and a flexibility instrument within a 1% budget unleash a lot of creativity and stimulate new savings.
in writing. the global fight against hiv/aids is a highly urgent issue that requires a comprehensive international commitment. however, we believe that hiv/aids should not be dealt with in the context of eu cooperation. we believe that the fight against hiv/aids should be carried out by the member states of the union and within the framework of the world health organisation. the junilista is seeking limited eu cooperation. we oppose the union's influence and competence in matters already dealt with by other international organisations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a very important report, coming at a time when the leaders of the member states have not yet finalised the conclusions of this weekend's summit. it is not easy to interpret what will happen if you listen to the president of the council. it is therefore important that we in the european parliament send a strong and clear signal, and i hope that the camiel eurling report will be adopted by a large majority. turkey is a long-standing issue on the european agenda. membership is controversial in many countries. of course, we must take these concerns seriously. we in this house and all the leaders of europe have a great responsibility in trying to explain the benefits of turkish membership. i am personally convinced that a democratic and economically stable turkey would be a great asset for the eu. turkey could become a bridge between europe and the muslim world and provide us with great opportunities to solve common problems and to combat fanaticism and terrorism. our common europe is not a christian project. it is a union of values, and these are the values that turkey is now working hard and determinedly to adopt. the progress made in turkey is impressive and must be encouraged. that is why turkey must have a date by this weekend. those who oppose turkey reason as if turkey were to join tomorrow. of course it's not like that. this is going to be a long process, maybe 15 years. in 15 years' time, the eu, turkey and the rest of the world will look very different. until then, the eu, but also turkey, must change. the eurling report contains a long list of measures that turkey must take before membership can become a reality. these are non-negotiable. it is about cyprus, human rights and, most importantly, the situation of the kurds. the large kurdish minority must be recognised and given full linguistic, cultural and political rights. a majority of the committee on foreign affairs has accepted this report, and i believe and hope that it will be adopted by a large majority at the vote on wednesday. any decision at the summit other than to open negotiations - and that the negotiations should be aimed at full membership - would be a major failure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the junilists do not see turkey's geographical position or its muslim religion as an obstacle to its membership of the eu. turkey is important for europe. we welcome turkey's approach to the eu and its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria. however, we cannot ignore the fact that both turkey and the eu must change before full eu membership is possible. turkey must face up to its past and denounce the armenian genocide. turkey must give its minorities full human rights. turkey must achieve a level of economic development such that full membership does not trigger tensions that could threaten the single market. the eu must also change. the agricultural policy must be abolished and the structural policy reorganized before the great and poor turkey can be absorbed. the decisions already taken mean that it is almost impossible to achieve a comprehensive reform of the cap until after 2013. in addition, in order to ensure popular support, accession negotiations should only be opened after the issue has been debated in the member states' electoral campaigns in the coming years. finally, the constitutional question of the eu must be resolved before we start negotiating turkey's membership. full turkish membership is a very long-term issue, requiring major and far-reaching political and economic changes in both turkey and the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank mr camiel eurlings for his excellent handling of a very difficult task. it is late in the debate; most of it has been said and many wise points have been made. it's hard to cover the whole thing in two minutes. there is no point in even trying, so i will pick out two points in the area of human rights which are close to my heart - not least because i sit on the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. first, according to advocates without borders, there are rapes in police stations. women are afraid to report it because they fear worse reprisals. the day turkey becomes a member, it is an unconditional requirement that this should no longer be the case. the other area where i would like to see stronger writing is in the field of education. despite the opening of hundreds of new schools, in large areas over half of girls aged 7 to 13 are prevented from attending school and learning to read and write because of male opposition. when turkey joins, hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of young, beautiful, illiterate women will become citizens of a union where good education is essential for a normal standard of living. their means of subsistence are extremely limited. women must be allowed to go to school today if they are to become citizens of the union tomorrow. there are many good reasons for turkish membership, but it is up to us - the current members - to maintain the pressure for reform throughout the negotiation process. under these circumstances, turkey is very welcome.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, the alde group supports the lisbon process as the best way of achieving a competitive european economy and it maintains that sustainable economic development has to be a guiding principle in all future regulatory initiatives. cohesion and social development are necessary, but do not take place in europe today. a knowledge-based society is necessary, but is not a reality in europe today. we have to increase funding for research and development and we also have to do a lot more work on lifelong learning. technical development with regard to environmental concerns is necessary, and this does not take place in europe today – at least not in the way it could and should. fundamental human rights, the rule of law and gender equality are what the european citizen want to achieve: that is the sound basis of economic growth. i therefore urge you, commissioner, not to mix up the fight against terrorism with human rights and the concerns for human rights. furthermore, active participation in the labour market makes a substantial contribution to a decent standard of living, regional development and social cohesion, although investment in education and research, as well as government action in cases of serious market failure, also have a key role to play. each minister of finance in europe today is taken up to the mountain top with all the temptations of undermining the growth and stability pact. sometimes the reaction is the same as that of the famous swedish actress who once said: 'i do not have to be drawn into temptation, i can walk by myself'. the alde group firmly believes that a robust and dynamic economic environment in the european union can only come about if the new commission commits itself to reviewing the stability and growth pact so that it provides a strong bulwark against fiscal irresponsibility, while maintaining the necessary flexibility to ensure that europe maximises its growth potential without endangering price stability. the alde group is fully prepared to cooperate with the commission along this very stony path that we have to walk together, but this must be based on sustainable development. (applause)
in writing. three junilists voted against the report because it is part of the provisions of the common agricultural policy which we want to abolish. the cap needs to be fundamentally reformed and that debate must start as soon as possible. we believe that the eu should start cutting agricultural aid as early as 2005. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year.
in writing. the regulation to which the report refers aims to improve social conditions, employment and the completion of a euro-mediterranean free trade area through support measures. however, the establishment of a free trade area is best achieved by the eu abolishing customs duties, subsidies and export refunds. the eu's external assistance and investment policy is a matter for each member state to decide, without going through the eu budget. the junilista can therefore not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. we believe that the countries surrounding the baltic sea should be responsible for the future management of fisheries resources in the baltic sea. we believe that the european communities should not have this competence. the question of the management of the world's fisheries resources will be dealt with, on the one hand, through the united nations and, on the other, in the baltic sea between the baltic sea countries. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. we believe that the european convention should be discharged for 2003, as there is no reason to question the financial statements. we are, however, against the lack of representativeness of the convention and its undemocratic working methods. among the more than 100 members of the convention, critics of the eu, women and young people were severely underrepresented. the convention cannot therefore claim to represent the citizens of europe. moreover, the president of the convention, valéry giscard d'estaing, and his presidium shaped politics in their own image. proposals were introduced which are not anchored in the working groups or in the plenary. there were no votes in plenary and giscard himself decided the majorities. we share the analysis of gisela stuart, a british member of the convention's bureau, in her book the making of europe's constitution (fabian society 2003): "the work of the convention was shaped by an irresponsible political elite, who had determined the outcome from the beginning".
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the junilista group opposes the commission's proposal and considers that the eib should not provide the proposed loan guarantee. the junilista group instead advocates that the countries concerned and benefiting from a loan guarantee should themselves, or by finding other players on the free market, guarantee this loan. according to junilista, this is not in the community interest but risks being a costly failure if loan guarantees are granted without the usual market test. the junilist would like to see the commission's proposal voted against, but finds that their original proposal is less bad than the one presented by the committee on budgets!
in writing. the readmission agreement with sri lanka forms part of the implementation of a common immigration policy. the junilist does not want to be part of a fortress europe. measures relating to illegal immigration and residence, including the return of illegal immigrants, shall be a matter for the national parliaments of the member states. we therefore vote against the report.
in writing. we have voted against this report. we believe that the member states wishing to contribute to the international fund for ireland should do so by deciding in their respective national parliaments to make such a contribution. member states may finance this contribution directly from their respective national budgets and the money should not have to go through the eu budget.
in writing. we do not think it is necessary for the eu to create a uniform portfolio of documents for eu citizens to use when applying for jobs. the eu institutions can of course have a single document portfolio for those seeking employment with them. however, such a document portfolio should not be made an obligatory norm, but rather an area where member states should be able to take decisions themselves.
mr president, i would like to thank you. like josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, i am somewhat confused by the order of the speeches. i am speaking here as rapporteur for the committee on development's opinion on the budget and should reasonably have been allowed to speak at the beginning. i would like to congratulate mr salvador garriga polledo on a very skilful job, on his great attention to the views of the various committees and on the overall quality of the negotiations. as the representative of the committee on development today, i am quite pleased with the result. by using the flexibility mechanism, we have avoided making drastic cuts in long-term development programmes to make room for iraq. i very much agree with josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra that we must find a long-term solution to the problem that almost every year arises in connection with major disasters and crises. we must protect our long-term development programmes if we are to have a chance of making a constructive contribution to the achievement of the mdgs. as regards the specific focus on category 4, i am very pleased to have heard the call for a clearer poverty targeting of the budget. this will be achieved by increasing the allocation for operations in asia, where the vast majority of the world's poor live, by eur 30 million. this is also done by increasing efforts in the field of health. more resources are being allocated to reducing the spread of hiv, malaria and tuberculosis. in addition, as john bowis has just emphasized, a new programme of eur 10 million is being set up for other poverty-related diseases, with a particular focus on vaccinations of young children. much more resources are needed in the field of health, not least in africa. the increases we are now deciding on mean that we are continuing to work with determination to increase support for the health sector within the aid framework, and that is the right way forward.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the long-term budgetary plan is an important document. it will place a restriction on annual budgets until 2013. it will be decisive for the choice of areas and the level of commitment the eu can undertake over the next 7-8 years. the commission has recently presented its view of the long-term budget. the new commission has taken over the old commission's proposal, the so-called prodi package. that means a massive expansion of spending. for some countries, this is a 50 percent increase in real terms. i do not find this acceptable. i believe that the new commission should have listened more carefully to what the six largest net contributors have said. they have demanded that the budget plan include a spending ceiling of 1 percent of gross national income. there should be a ceiling not only on payments but also on commitments. it is not possible, as the commission proposes, to allow commitments to run out at 1.27% of gnp. it is the ceiling that members have committed themselves to pay. after 2013, there's no way to expand beyond general economic growth unless all countries agree to drop their veto power. i don't think they will. the commission therefore proposes that the eu should introduce some form of eu taxation. we are firmly and strongly against giving the eu its own taxation rights. without control from the individual member states, there is no limit to the eu's ambition to grow into a federal superstate. each member state should let its parliament vote on the eu budget plan before the council of ministers takes its decision, so that it is not done in secret but openly and clearly so that people know what financial commitments they will have. in order to provide the national parliaments with a sound basis for decision-making, the commission should draw up a proposal for an alternative plan which falls within the 1% ceiling of expenditure proposed by us. otherwise, there is a real risk that the commission will ultimately be forced to make unforeseen cuts in expenditure and commitments instead of a well-balanced priority which will make it possible to keep the promises made to the new countries.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i understand that the figures are difficult because there are so many of us who have to be moved between these two seats. it's not just a cost in money, but also a cost to the environment, which i think is hugely important. i have great difficulty in defending these trips to the citizens of europe and sweden when they ask questions about them. this is a lot of money, which we could use for many other important issues within the eu. i think this is an important issue and we should raise it as often as possible until we have the opportunity to have a single seat for our work, hopefully in brussels.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you so much for your answer. my question is based on the fact that there are many who want to limit the possibilities for the public service to operate. restricting public services by prohibiting the use of certain technologies is just one such way. there are also those who see the new television directive, but also the proposed services directive, as a way of limiting public service. how will the commission ensure that these directives do not interfere with the right of the member states to define for themselves what constitutes a public service and the conditions to be met by public service companies?
commission madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in all areas of activity, the commission is constantly strengthening the protection of the union's financial interests, and in particular the fight against fraud. development aid is not an isolated case and it should be noted that the court of auditors has given a positive statement of assurance on the management of the european development fund for 2003. the risks - and this has been confirmed by the court of auditors and olaf - are not linked to the regularity of transactions handled by the delegation services, but very often to transactions handled by the implementing bodies, whether local associations in developing countries, non-governmental organisations or project management structures. for this reason, the commission introduced in 2003 a much more rigorous approach to simplification of procedures and external audit to allow better monitoring of these transactions. as regards the role of national interests in development aid, tendering procedures are the best guarantee of transparency and competition, and therefore also of reasonable prices. in addition, the european union's development policy is defined by the joint declaration of the council and the commission of november 2000 and by partnership agreements with different regions and countries, such as the cotonou agreement, and, finally, by international commitments such as, for example, the millennium declaration or the monterrey consensus. this is the framework of the union's development policy and it does not concern the specific national interests of any particular member state. this is the comparative advantage of a community-led development policy: it represents european values, principles and objectives, it is perceived by our partners as neutral in relation to national policies and it is based on a real concept and implementation of partnership with these countries.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i would like to hear specific proposals for action. olaf has recently revealed that financial assistance to lesotho was not forthcoming and that the resources were not used for the purpose for which they were intended. i would like to hear more concrete proposals from the commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. here are two very different points of view: one where drugs have been more accepted as a natural part of our daily lives and another where we want to do everything possible to stop the supply and use of all drugs. most swedish citizens, especially parents, are in favour of the latter. it means that drug law enforcement and prevention are given top priority. to say, as giusto catania did, that today's drug policy could be a crime against human rights is completely foreign to us. we don't see taking illegal drugs as a human right. penalties that force addicts to choose treatment over prison are not a violation of human rights. it's a pathway to help you get off drugs. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in lisbon also points this out at the end of the introductory summary of its report, which i think giusto catania should read. we don't want to decriminalize drug use. we want to send a clear and unambiguous message to the world that drugs are not acceptable. proposals to provide doctor-led help to take drugs or, even worse, to distribute heroin are equally foreign to us. the key for us is that the content of care and rehabilitation for drug addicts is and remains a national competence. the ppe-de group, like us swedish moderates, will vote against giusto catania's report precisely because we are standing up in the fight against this plague. our path is to break out of drug addiction, not get stuck in it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish junilista is strongly critical of the report we are discussing today. the proposal calls for a genuine eu drug policy. a common eu drug policy implies a drug-free policy of compromise. in sweden, all handling of drugs is prohibited, except for medical reasons. it is important to us that sweden's restrictive drug policy will continue in the future. we are in favour of prevention, treatment, social training and rehabilitation. the report emphasises a harm reduction policy. we want to work for a drug-free society instead of accepting the use of drugs. we reject the classification of drugs as light and heavy, and the claim that so-called light drugs are not addictive. the lack of internal border controls to prevent drug trafficking between member states is a problem in this context. the eu's member states must be able to control their national borders to prevent drugs from entering the country. internal border controls in the eu are currently virtually non-existent. in conclusion, i would like to say that the drug problem in the eu is largely a consequence of the poverty that exists in many countries in the world. the eu's unsolidarity trade policy of tariffs, licences and quotas is contributing to the global poverty problem. it is important that the un and not the eu work to make it profitable to grow alternative crops in the world's poorest countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. some of the facts are simple: europe is the world's largest market for hashish. can you stop the drugs? so we just give up and limit the damage? - i know. we know that most people who become addicted to heroin, cocaine and amphetamines start with hashish. that's why it's crucial that we get the recruitment of hash addicts down. according to the report by mr giusto catania, the restrictive policy has failed. the figures from the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in lisbon, which came a few weeks ago, speak for themselves. in countries like sweden, with a restrictive view of drugs, the percentage of 15-year-olds who have used hashish is 7 percent. in britain, 42.5 percent of all 15-year-old boys have used hashish. the restrictive policy has led to dramatic reductions in the recruitment of drug addicts. according to giusto catania, "light" drugs are not dangerous. according to new data from the observatory, there is an increased risk of a range of physical and mental problems, such as depression, psychosis and schizophrenia. a review of european drug policy is currently under way. even in countries like the netherlands, attitudes have changed over the last ten years. today, only a third of the country's so-called coffee shops remain. the dutch minister of justice has announced that it will probably have to re-examine its policy. there is a good chance of reversing this trend. anyone who wants less drugs in europe should vote against giusto catania's report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'd like to warn you about the labels of light and heavy drugs. the talk of soft drugs sends the wrong message. they may seem harmless, but there are no soft drugs. however, these drugs, such as cannabis, are often the gateway to other drugs. i've been to a lot of different drug rehab centers. virtually all addicts have agreed that what is wrongly called soft drugs have been their start in the drug habit that has ruined their lives and robbed them of their future. these users feel anger and frustration that society has not sufficiently warned of the dangers of cannabis, hashish, and similar drugs. in my home country of sweden, we have combined a restrictive drug policy and the criminalisation of drugs with care and treatment for addiction. this combination has been shown to be the best way to curb abuse. the small increase we have seen in sweden in recent years has been due partly to the open borders and partly to influences from the legalisation debate going on elsewhere in the eu.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. the bill we are debating in this house today will have a very important impact on european public health and on the confidence of european citizens in food safety. it is extremely important for all our constituents in our various constituencies, but it is perhaps especially important for parents of allergic children. our amendments are in line with what i and the alde group think is reasonable in order to produce a strong proposal, both from the point of view of competition and consumer protection. i'd like to press a few things. the single market is of the utmost importance. in this single market we want to protect our citizens while setting standards for the testing and processing of food at the points of the chain which are the first contact with the consumer and the first entry into the distribution chain. in that sense, this proposal is a good one. it's also good because it protects important and vulnerable high-risk groups like women, infants and unborn children. we also take a stand on a standard of good agricultural practice. here we have included both integrated control and climate variation to give a more equitable proposal. it is of the utmost importance that these possibilities to take account of local or regional variations do not lower the level of ambition of the proposal. this must be taken into account in the practical application once the proposal has entered into force. it is good that there have been improvements for the food authority, in terms of both time and resources. i also think that the rapporteur has done a very good job. i am glad that we have been able to facilitate the participation of civil society and ngos in the discussion and consideration of these issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the council! you have had a difficult presidency, with many controversial issues, dramatic events in our world, the commission process and, not least, the domestic political turbulence caused by the terrible murder of theo van gogh. i'm sure this has affected your ambitions and your efforts to combat terrorism and security. action plans and programmes are good, but so far not much has happened. if the european council can make progress at the summit, that is very good. it must be remembered that counter-terrorism and security must never be allowed to override the protection of the individual's privacy. most of the issues on the agenda have been discussed here together. you were here monday night and listened to the debate on turkey. in a few hours, we will be voting on the camiel eurling report. i think that a safe majority of members will vote to give turkey a date. in this context, i would say that it is pathetic that some people here have pushed through a line which makes the final vote secret. this parliament is always at the forefront of openness and transparency and the politician who does not dare to look his constituents in the eye on this issue has no place here. nevertheless, we expect you to have the courage to take this historic decision and, with all the difficulties that are there, to give turkey a start date with a view to full membership. only then can the democratic process continue. it also sends a clear signal to the tens of thousands of kurds in diyarbakir who demonstrated this weekend for turkish membership of the eu. you mentioned the european security policy and disarmament. i assume that you will be discussing the agreement which iran has concluded with three of the member states. it is, of course, a very good thing that tehran is going to freeze its uranium mining. however, there is still considerable doubt as to what is really behind this decision. we should be very vigilant before making any concessions to the iranian regime. it must prove that it is serious and not just playing a strategic game, as it so often does. the mullahs in tehran rule with an iron fist in a country where human rights are totally out of the question. there is no reason to reward such a country until we see concrete improvements in this area. the social democratic government in my country claims - but it may be wrong, it often does - that the question of the chinese embargo will be raised on friday. if that is the case, i would like to remind you of the strong opposition in this house to the lifting of the arms embargo. it would send the wrong signal to the chinese regime.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my party and my political group hope that the european council will decide to open accession negotiations with turkey. it is equally important to point out that turkey has a very long way to go, not least in terms of human rights, the situation of minorities, the cyprus issue and trade union rights. there has been a lot of change in legislation in turkey, but it must be recognised that this is not matched by the reality on the ground and changes in practice. the current turkish legislation also has major shortcomings. i can point to the new penal code which still makes it a crime in practice to mention the genocide of armenians in turkey. it is absolutely unacceptable and embarrassing for turkey to continue to deny this historical fact. recognition of the genocide would open the door to normalization for the armenians in turkey and also to normalization of relations with armenia, which is necessary for turkey's membership of the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate on the budgetary plans covers a wide range of issues. the debate on the size of the union's revenue must never obscure the importance of how we prioritise our expenditure. we must give greater priority to expenditure to support the development of the new knowledge society and dare to make smaller contributions to those parts of our economy which are too large and which belong to another era. the lisbon process will of course be the most important element. the commission and the council must not only talk about ambitious targets but also propose concrete measures to increase competition, especially in the sectors of the knowledge society. it is a question of how we will expand competition in education and health care but also in other parts of our society so that we can have the best activities in europe. there is one issue which makes the summit we are now facing particularly historic, and that is the issue of turkey. a 'no' or a delay in this process will of course have different consequences. we would then be leaving the space open to other forces and ideals than those for which the european union stands. the eu's fundamental task is to create security and safety and to bridge differences rather than create new divides. and that means we have to ask ourselves the question: will our security and safety be enhanced with turkey firmly anchored in the fundamental values of the eu and europe? in the same way as our security and safety will be enhanced if it can be extended to the balkans and through the enlargement that has taken place this year? that question is ultimately about the respect we have for the work that the eu is doing. the reason why other countries want to join is the success that the eu has had in strengthening security and safety. this is an important reason why the council must take the historic decision to say yes to opening negotiations.
in writing. the junilists do not see turkey's geographical position or its muslim religion as an obstacle to its membership of the eu. we welcome turkey's move towards the eu. however, we cannot ignore the fact that both turkey and the eu must change before full eu membership is possible. turkey must condemn the genocide of the armenians. turkey must give its minorities full human rights. turkey must achieve a level of economic development such that membership does not trigger tensions that could threaten the single market. the eu must also change. the agricultural policy must be abolished and the structural policy reorganized before the great and poor turkey can be absorbed. in addition, in order to ensure a popular anchoring, membership negotiations should only be opened after the issue has been debated in the member states' election campaigns until 2008. finally, the eu's constitutional issue must be resolved before the eu takes a position on the question of turkish membership negotiations.
in writing. the report on the asylum procedure and protection in regions of origin is part of the establishment of the first stage of a common european asylum system and aims to apply the same procedure for international protection in all member states. the junilist does not want to be part of a fortress europe. a member state of the eu should be able to pursue a generous refugee policy if it so wishes. we cannot therefore support the report.
in writing. this report contains proposals and formulations which are of a narco-liberal nature. we therefore vote against the motion. we are opposed to drugs being classified as 'light' and 'heavy' respectively and to drugs being labelled as 'light' not being addictive. the 'alternative policy' advocated in the report is a more drug-liberal policy, with an emphasis on harm reduction measures against drug use rather than preventive work. we are opposed to a common drug policy in the eu. such a policy would force countries with restrictive drug policies, including sweden, to pursue more liberal and lenient drug policies. it is up to each national parliament in the eu to decide on national drug policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu has already adopted a number of measures to combat illegal fishing. despite very long transitional periods for important environmental legislation, other legislation has not been implemented. when it has been implemented in some areas, it has been on paper but not in practice. last year we sent a delegation from the environment committee to the ministry of the environment in bucharest. the delegation looked at several of the more controversial projects. we were confirmed in our view that it is urgent to increase the pace of environmental reform. there is a special project which i think the commission should keep an extra eye on during these years. it's about rosia montana, a proposal to build europe's largest gold mine in romania. it's a project that has enormous environmental impacts. among other things, large quantities of cyanide will be used in this sensitive area. the question is whether current eu legislation, such as the provisions on environmental impact assessment and the water directive, will be complied with. the question is also whether it will be able to comply with the new directive on mining waste and its environmental impact. i would urge the commission to look very closely at the rosia montana project to see if it really does manage to meet the eu environmental standards, which i think are minimum standards and something that the local population in the area is also demanding.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the junilists welcome romania and bulgaria as members of the european union, as we welcome turkey, the countries of the western balkans and, eventually, ukraine and hopefully belarus. at the same time, we want to warn of the problems that the eu faces if we take in a large number of members in a very short time - poor and economically underdeveloped countries with little experience of democracy and the rule of law and with major problems of corruption. the eu is designed for economically developed countries with stable democracies and moderate corruption problems. the enlargement of the union to ten countries, which junilistan has been a strong supporter of, is already causing problems. bringing poor countries like romania into an eu that continues to be dragged down by unreasonable agricultural policies and poorly managed structural policies and which itself is struggling to prevent waste and corruption in its own system is dangerous for the future of the european project. it could also prove dangerous for romania. the risk of brain drain is significant. it is also a major disadvantage to enter the eu agricultural system and to be locked into an economic structure with no future. the elections just held are a great success for democracy in romania, but both romania and the eu countries have reasons to wait and not push for too early accession. it may be in the interest of both parties to wait for full membership.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the council for its reply, but it is clear that i am not satisfied to hear that the matter is coming up against a divide between the commission and the council. the council has every opportunity to take the initiative. we know that about 10,000 people die on the roads every year because of drunk driving. we also know that professional traffic is important to tackling the problem of drunk driving. that is why this recommendation is important and i see no obstacle to the member states taking these initiatives. there is also a paragraph in the conclusions on follow-up. there, discussions could be continued on the possibility of introducing alcohol locks in cars. it's a technological innovation that industry is also working on. i would like to know whether there are discussions in the council on the possibility of introducing alcohol locks in vehicles.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. i took the initiative of this special debate following the council's decision in november. some technical improvements came at the cost of up to six years of blocking the question of protecting our animals. that would mean that neither parliament nor the commission would have a chance to improve the conditions of the animals during the whole of their term of office, which is completely unreasonable. the council's decision was so far removed from the proposal that i even doubt its legality. i hope you will make your ambition to return with density and transport times as soon as possible a reality. i also hope that you will then use the articles of the treaty on transport, consumer affairs or health as a legal basis, so that parliament can participate through the co-decision procedure. then together we can break the council's resistance to giving the animals reasonable conditions. unfortunately, the council listens more to lobbyists than to public opinion. the maturity of a society is shown in the way it treats the defenseless. if the rules on the transport of animals are a sign of european maturity, unfortunately we are still barbarians. i invite all the ministers to join me in transporting animals between stockholm and brussels. then maybe they'll understand what they've done. if we are considered to be 75-kilogram sheep, we should be ten in an area the size of a double bed. if we are considered chickens, we will experience the droppings of those above falling on those below. if we are considered pigs, we shall, in accordance with the council's decision, only be given electric shocks if we refuse to move. we'll also be getting water after 14 hours, before we continue for another 14 hours. it is also important to ensure that the temperature is kept above 5 degrees during the journey, as required by council regulations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has been shown on several occasions that animal transport within the union and from the eu to non-eu countries has been the subject of criticism. we have recently received information about the degrading conditions under which animals have been exported from the eu to lebanon. this concerns us. will the commission give priority to this problem? we hope so, but we're not entirely convinced. another worrying factor is the reports of financial fraud that come from olaf on a regular basis. recently there were allegations of financial fraud in connection with the transport of animals to lebanon. in economic terms, the subsidies for exports of animals from the eu to third countries amount to about sek 60100 million per year. this is tax money being spent, right? we hope that the commission will take animal welfare seriously and that we will not have to read any more reports on abused export subsidies.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. i will be presenting the opinion of the committee on the environment on behalf of mr satu hassis. in discussing this question, we must imagine what it would be like if the devastation that is taking place on the seabed were to take place on land instead. imagine forests being cut down, all their animals dying and the birds silenced. this would create a storm of people. we would all be drowning in letters from concerned citizens demanding protection of the forests. now this is happening on the sea floor; the sea forests are coral reefs on the sea floor, among fish that don't have the opportunity to scream. that is why we must speak in this parliament for these biosystems, ecosystems without a voice. the committee on the environment has tried to express this vote in the form of amendments. i would therefore like to stress that the house should support amendment no 8, which was adopted by the committee on the environment but unfortunately rejected by the committee on fisheries. we need to identify other vulnerable deep-sea habitats that need to be protected so that we can have a complete list of them. in cooperation with ices, of course, to avoid duplication of effort, but we must take responsibility for the existence of this list. i would also like to speak in favour of amendment no 7, which deals with the important aspect that there are other tools than trawls that can damage the bottom. the rules should therefore of course cover all gear which may damage the bottom and it is wise to apply the precautionary principle in these sensitive areas. i think, however, that we should keep the commission's proposal on zones and therefore vote against the second half of the amendment. the zones are based on scientific grounds, which we can accept.
mr president, if the socialist group has been able to say what it thinks about this procedure under rule 152, then other groups should also be allowed to do so. we are very disappointed that the pse group has withdrawn its name from the joint text, even though it was negotiated by two of their vice-chairmen. we also hope that the pse group realises that by voting against the compromise it is taking the risk that parliament will not have a position on the new commission's strategic policy objectives. does the pse group really want this to happen and spoil the reputation of the european parliament? (applause)
in writing. we support the idea of a flexibility instrument in the eu budget to have a budgetary margin for contingency spending only. the items may then be dealt with in a specific order. they may themselves be of quite different kinds. for example, the peace ii programme is something that has its justification as an internal matter for the eu, while we oppose the eu as an organisation being involved in financing the reconstruction of iraq. such measures are to be decided by the countries themselves, following democratic decisions in their respective countries.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. we, jan andersson, anna hedh, ewa hedkvist petersen, inger segelström and åsa westlund, do not agree with this. we are not in favour of this. we do not think that there is any reason for them to want to increase payments in the agricultural sector further in relation to the council's proposal.
in writing. the moderate delegation has today cast its vote in the final vote on the resolution. the resolution contains much that we consider to be laudable, but since we voted against several of the proposed increases in expenditure in the vote on the budget figures, it was impossible for us to fully support the conclusions of the resolution. we do not agree with the general criticism of the council for having reduced the size of the budget. this is particularly true of agricultural aid, where we welcome the council's move in the right direction by reducing aid. however, we believe that the agricultural policy needs radical reform and would therefore have preferred further reductions in agricultural aid.
in writing. the junilist rejects parliament's draft budget for 2005. the parliament's proposal would increase the eu's commitment to 1.24% of the eu's expected gnp. we believe that the commitment for 2005 must not exceed the 1.14% proposed by the commission. although payments do not yet exceed 1% of gni, they will eventually rise to the level of commitments in the 2005 budget. this forms the basis of the long-term financial framework. it is therefore important to bring the level down to a lower level as early as 2005. the objective should be to get below the 1% of gni expenditure ceiling. here is a selection of proposed cuts: * we believe that the eu should start cutting agricultural aid as early as 2005* contributions to eu political parties should be abolished altogether.* subsidies to tobacco farming should be abolished it is up to the individual countries to make the transition for the farmers concerned.* the contribution to information efforts may be reduced because we consider it politically difficult to provide objective information in the run-up to referendums on the constitution. we believe that it is up to the individual countries and their political parties to manage this information. the eu should avoid interfering in the democratic process in the member states.
in writing. we believe that the european union's fisheries policy must be reviewed. over-exploitation of fishing waters drives people into ever greater poverty and deprives the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain. it would be better if the countries with which the union has fisheries agreements were instead given assistance so that they could develop their own fisheries. we do not accept amendments which give the commission an independent source of revenue. we believe that if the union concludes a fisheries agreement with a third country, the total amount of the financial compensation to that third country should be financed by the member states of the union whose fishing vessels are taking advantage of the agreement in question. member states shall pay in proportion to the amount of catch they take up. these member states may then decide whether they will finance this expenditure by charging fees to their fishing vessels.
in writing. the measures proposed in the report - to strengthen democracy, human rights and the rule of law in third countries - are much needed and often necessary. however, we are wondering whether this should be implemented by the eu. the un, with its long experience and global reach, is better placed to implement these measures. we are also looking at the large sum of money allocated for 2005-06 for these measures, some 225 million euro. the objectives and actions are not clearly defined or delimited and the experience of the eu's ability to use such money is not good. for these reasons, we vote against the report.
in writing. there is a significant risk that the financial resources provided will be used for administrative purposes and that the efficiency of the coordination of these resources will therefore be unsatisfactory. we are, however, very much in favour of solidarity between different countries in the event of disasters. we do not, however, consider that this is primarily a matter for the eu, but that the respective national parliaments of the member states should decide on the financial resources to be provided in the event of a serious accident in another member state.
in writing. there are some reasonable points in the motion for a resolution. but there are also some proposals which are impossible for us junilist members to vote for. we particularly object to the following four points in the motion for a resolution: the following paragraph is added: stresses the continued need to strengthen the eu's external borders, with the support of the establishment of a european border guard force; the following paragraph is inserted: insists on the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights, which can effectively monitor the respect of these rights; point 33 of the last part: parliament called for the cfp to be further reformed, including the creation of a european fisheries fund. paragraph 40 states that 'parliament considers that the commission should, without delay, devise an appropriate campaign and communication strategy for presenting the constitution to the citizens of the union in the clearest, fairest and most comprehensible way possible'. we can see that there are different views on what constitutes an 'appropriate approach' in this context. we cannot therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
