the food chain is not a dumping ground and industrial waste products have not lost anything in animal feed.
environmental groups accuse the state of being aware of the forest industry's environmental crimes, but corruption prevents control and prosecution.
only if it is ensured that foreign companies no longer pimp out domestic firms that lack the forestry and environmental expertise, and if cameroon gets its hands on corruption, does such an agreement make sense.
the fight against corruption, both at the level of officials and private farmers, the continuation of effective law enforcement and, of course, sustainable economic development are essential for the protection of cameroon's tropical forests.
at the same time, the obstacles posed by the limitation of natural resources, high energy prices and climate change must be addressed.
this could create a fairer environment for the benefit of all concerned.
this is not only good for the environment and helps to meet the kyoto targets for emissions reduction, but also reduces noise exposure for people, especially along transit routes.
we have the energy summit on february 4th.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a transparent manner.
in both cases we would have to think about how to reconcile these two options in a sustainable way.
this is about the environment and energy production.
is it possible to adapt the water framework directive so that in the future storage power stations also have a chance to ensure the balance between solar energy and wind energy on the other hand?
innovation, climate change, renewable energy if you read the europe 2020 strategy, you might really think that the eu is serious about environmental and energy policy.
however, if we look behind the facade of environmental protection, we quickly see another energy strategy: nuclear power as a so-called clean energy.
commissioner oettinger made a clear statement when i asked him to tell me that nuclear energy was making an important contribution to low-carbon electricity generation in the eu and would continue to do so in the near future.
now, mr president barroso, my question is: do you also think that nuclear power can actually and sincerely be sold to our european citizens as clean and climate-friendly energy?
if there is a lot of rubbish on the road, whether it is mixed with industrial waste from the north or the south, then it can be quickly dumped somewhere unsecured in a landfill without taking or being able to take enough precautions.
it is not a question of denying access to 536 new sites and then using police force to dissuade citizens from protesting because they do not want household waste mixed with toxic industrial waste to be dumped on their doorstep.
the waste crisis in the greater naples area has been going on for 14 years now.
the citizens' distrust of any waste project can also be explained by the fact that at the political level during this period much was promised, but almost nothing was fulfilled.
this means that the daily production of waste is well above the european average, while at the same time there is little emphasis on waste separation and recycling.
the sad result of this lack of environmental awareness on both sides is that campania is now a heavily polluted region, and the rate of cancer among the inhabitants and respiratory diseases among children in the greater naples area are far above the average in italy.
strengthening the internal market, advancing energy policy, the danube strategy and also concluding the talks with croatia.
the financial, insurance and commercial sectors, as well as the energy sector, are particularly affected.
- partnership agreements for the sustainable use of forest resources worldwide cannot be expected to produce miracles.
the environmental damage caused by forestry activities should not be overlooked.
environmental groups accuse the state of being aware of environmental crimes committed by the forest industry, but corruption prevents control and prosecution.
this ultimately threatens africa's green lungs, which are critical to global climate, and endangers cameroon's unique flora and fauna.
the following are essential to protect cameroon's tropical forests: fighting corruption and bribery (both at the civil service level and among community owners of state forests), effective law enforcement, sustainable forestry, where only as much is cut as is grown, and better training of woodworkers to avoid damage to the forest floor during logging.
− only if it is ensured that foreign firms no longer pimp out domestic firms that lack forestry and environmental know-how and if the congo gets its corruption under control does such an agreement make sense.
healthy forests are vital to the maintenance of local biodiversity and make a major contribution to our climate goals as natural carbon sinks.
after all, the arctic is already the global end-resort for mercury emissions.
yet, given the world's energy hunger, the very idea of renouncing arctic oil reserves is highly unrealistic.
i have to say, madam president, the exploitation of natural resources, strategic interests, climate change and, not least, the growth of tourism are all bringing this fragile ecosystem to the brink of extinction.
however, the ecosystem in the far north is relatively self-sustaining and therefore extremely sensitive.
the high north is rich in resources, energy and opens up new sea routes which could be used by the european union.
when mining for raw materials, it is important that the ecological system not suffer too much.
i support the report by my colleague, mr gahler, on the sustainable policy of the eu for the far north.
after all, the arctic is already the global end-resort for mercury emissions.
in view of the warming of the climate and the consequences that are expected from it, this problem cannot be overestimated.
the further development of the black sea synergy is not only important for energy strategic reasons.
cooperation in the development of regional structures will also benefit the environment, which is currently a cause for concern.
the eu should act as a supporter to help achieve the balance between economic development and environmental protection.
the area is an integral part of the eu energy strategy, so this new strategy is an implementation of the overall energy strategy and brings synergies and continuity to the work at the european level.
i say yes to the competitiveness pact, yes to the internal energy market, because it can also help to bring down prices, increase independence and create growth and jobs.
i have two points of view: the current energy policy path is moving too slowly towards the goal.
the eu can make important progress by simplifying and speeding up procedures for developing energy infrastructure, but not at the expense of citizens, and the aarhus convention must not be undermined.
the european union must be aware of its responsibility towards the acp states and the outermost regions and act in a sustainable manner.
there is a lack of sustainability and coordination of activities.
commissioner, you say we should treat member states according to their capacity to collect waste.
i would ask you to take a more stringent approach to the member states in the field of waste.
i would also remind you of the interview you gave in connection with the waste crisis in naples.
we have a fast-growing market in this area and the future of europe will depend on how we manage to deal with this waste problem.
- the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing.
the proper disposal of this type of waste is an environmental necessity, as waste electrical and electronic equipment contains significant amounts of pollutants such as the heavy metals mercury, lead, cadmium and cfcs.
- italy has been facing a waste crisis for years, particularly in the province of campania.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life.
investigators recently discovered that untreated municipal waste was simply dumped into the mediterranean sea around naples.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
the concerns are more about the sustainability and the threat to the danube.
we have heard today that we must develop the danube as a transport route because we - and i am also a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - really see here an alternative to not increasing, if not reducing, co2 emissions, which is perhaps too much to ask for.
if we consider the danube and its tributary as a large ecosystem, then i see in this danube strategy a very great opportunity, but on the other hand it requires a great deal of foresight in the formulation of the strategy.
but it will be up to you and the commission, and of course also parliament, to decide together that all the funds used here will really help to preserve the ecological service system that the danube represents - its tributaries, the forests, the dry meadows, the wetlands - in the future.
this danube strategy really offers an opportunity to invest in green energy, to create sustainability from the bottom up.
the danube strategy is designed to promote long-term cooperation in improving the transport network and infrastructure for environmental protection.
this includes wastewater treatment plants, environmental technology and biodiversity projects.
what i am missing, however, in the environmental pillar, commissioner, is the issue of environmental safety in connection with nuclear energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the danube region is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the energy issue, and therefore possibly even the expansion of hydroelectric power stations, is also to be dealt with in the context of the danube strategy.
the extent to which the project will really come to life will certainly depend, among other things, on how the tension between the objectives of environmental protection and connecting the danube area is resolved and whether the danube will be sufficient as a common denominator for the implementation of this mammoth project.
the danube strategy will not only address environmental aspects in order to avoid further stress on the danube ecosystem.
the commission is not i represent today anja weisgerber, our shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who is on maternity leave.
nevertheless, the environmental and economic challenges were very great.
in terms of climate policy, the burden must be shared by all the links in the chain, and this link in the chain had to do its part.
but i believe that this compromise reflects the reality that we are serious about working together to limit and reduce co2 emissions.
overall, the european union has recently succeeded in reducing co2 emissions by 9%.
− in order to achieve a significant reduction in co2 emissions, manufacturers must convert vehicles so that they cannot exceed a certain value in the future.
this is why alternatives must be created which can reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
two options are being considered: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the environmental performance of the road transport sector, including the introduction of a new road safety directive.
however, i think that we should be more ambitious in terms of co2 emissions per kilometre.
at the same time, and for the sake of our environment, we should not delay any deadlines.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant compensation to farmers in one member state who are affected by pollution from such an accident in another member state.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear accident.
i also believe that this parliament should send as many observers as possible to the elections, even though they are local elections, because the elections could be the starting point, the beginning of a new political climate in albania.
in the 1970s, in the early 1980s, the ecological blindness of the world bank was indeed a big issue.
where are all these projects, where are the solar panels in the tropics, where are the sustainable forests in the amazon or in vietnam, where are the solar panels and wind turbines in kenya?
as a former energy commissioner, he is of course well aware of our strategy.
a stronger role for europe and the european institutions in the world bank will therefore be a key challenge in seeing how development aid can promote family businesses, how small and mediumsized enterprises can be promoted in energy production, because many small businesses are also, in the end, economies of scale and can offer a corresponding return on investment.
one of the most important issues is, of course, the storage of energy.
it's about energy, transportation, communications.
in its recommendations to the croatian authorities, the report pays particular attention to sustainability, including reforms in the judiciary and the fight against corruption, the assurance of which will be the key to croatia's future democratic development.
in the field of raw materials diplomacy, i expect the eu to provide developing countries with the know-how to mine raw materials in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
i have agreed to the report by mr kalfin because i particularly welcome the eur 2 billion for climate change and adaptation and the specific support for smes.
the danube strategy will also deal with energy - and possibly even the expansion of hydropower plants.
the extent to which the project will really come to life will certainly depend, among other things, on how the tension between the objectives of environmental protection and connecting the danube area is resolved and whether the danube will be sufficient as a common denominator for the implementation of this mammoth project.
− the eu strategy for the danube region and its 115 million inhabitants offers the opportunity to accelerate crossborder cooperation and sustainable economic and cultural development in the region.
the strategy focuses on improving mobility, energy supply, safety, and environmental and disaster protection.
it is in this region that there are still nuclear power stations which pose a threat to the environment and the population.
the world bank, which is committed to promoting sustainable energy, should be called upon to give priority to such regional projects over large-scale commercial projects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
in order to achieve environmental and economic sustainability, it would be desirable to give priority to small, alternative and decentralised energy projects, as this could prevent the purchase of energy, which is often more expensive.
the strategy aims to promote the future prospects of european citizens for secure and sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
we know that fisheries agreements must be of economic benefit to the parties involved and must be based on ecological principles.
the environmental principle is one thing, the other is that such agreements are also intended to strengthen democracy and human rights in a country that may have similar problems to other north african countries.
we know that the gulf stream has a very significant impact on the climate in europe.
in the long term, the only way to reduce dependence is to focus agricultural policy more on regional economic cycles with sustainable production, short transport routes and high self-marketing.
in the workplace, these women are often called "gold dresses" in a derogatory way, which is not very conducive to the work environment.
the other demands made in the report, namely the introduction of eurobonds and a carbon tax, must also be rejected.
even a carbon tax with questionable objectives would damage europe's economy, destroy jobs and thus negatively affect the majority of people.
− the objectives of making tax systems more sustainable, fair and transparent are pursued alongside the development of democratic systems.
the eu's investment policy must also create an economically friendly environment for both domestic and foreign investors.
the report calls for developing countries to be assisted in setting up such structures to provide sustainable support for the self-responsibility of these countries.
the eu's food industry is a major player in the world market, and it is difficult for an eu producer to compete without it, given the high standards we have in social, quality, animal welfare and the environment - standards which we cannot or do not want to control when importing food.
compliance with quality, environmental and social standards must also apply to imported goods.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
i would like to mention three: fighting corruption, discrimination and ecological issues.
finally, on ecological issues, montenegro defines itself in its constitution as an ecological state, which is great.
the problem is, despite the beautiful coast and mountains, if good transparent progress is not made by having environmental assessments, then this beautiful countryside is in danger of being destroyed.
so, i hope that this country will move forward, involve civil society and have transparent processes in its ecological areas, especially hydro-electric power plants.
i also welcome commissioner hedegaard's proposal for a carbon footprint levy, which would, for example, charge an additional vat surcharge for products produced with high co2 emissions and transported over long distances.
if we look at the price movements in the energy market over the last few weeks, it is not just the political risks in many countries around the world, but also the financial economy and many other influential factors that make a secure strategy for the future impossible.
we must therefore divide the energy pie into as many pieces as possible, and gas will play a very important role in this in the future.
if we import products with a high carbon content or ship them within europe, this must not affect our competitiveness.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
sustainability and decent working conditions should be promoted and demanded.
sustainability and growth are two keywords that are often heard, especially in industrial policy, the implementation of which is highly questionable, especially because of the lack of resources.
industrial policy is seen as a driver of sustainable employment and social prosperity.
the report also provides for an integrated industrial policy to serve as a basis for environmental, competition and trade policies to improve resource efficiency.
it is crucial to ensure the civilian use of nuclear energy by iran in the eyes of the international community.
the commission also found that the european waste catalogue the mining waste directives had not been transposed into hungarian law.
we know what factors have led to an increase in disasters in recent years, we know about climate change, about the explosive industrialization in the third world, about the growing world population and all that.
nevertheless, i believe that the european union should use only sustainable, green and secure sources of energy in its cooperation with third countries in the energy sector, in line with its climate protection objectives.
i would welcome an initiative to immediately switch the 143 power stations in europe off the grid and to switch to sustainable energy sources.
let us think of a europe-wide exit and push renewable energies!
it is better to accommodate refugees close to their home countries in the most familiar cultural environment, as is the case in egypt and tunisia, and this would avoid integration problems in europe.
the two countries should now be considered safe third countries for refugees after the democratic upheavals, and that is where controlled, sustainable and structural aid should be directed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
the second is that there are big problems in environmental matters.
thirdly, climate change and energy targets.
in the face of the disaster in japan, everything must be done to promote renewable energy sources.
active climate policy and the creation of environmentally-friendly jobs not only contribute to the achievement of climate goals, but also have a positive impact on social policy.
i also support the negotiating priorities set out in the report, which take account of developments in the field of climate change and the obligation to respect human rights.
referring to 'sufficient financial funding' for the 2020 strategy, when billions of the eu budget are still being invested in black channels and savings potentials, such as the eu agencies jungle or the parliament's premises, have not been used, is a waste of european taxpayers' money.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and i hope very much that the situation in japan will be brought under control and that a worldwide rethinking of nuclear energy will take place.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
we must therefore use the billions for the rescue packages to prevent the flow of refugees from north africa by means of sustainable projects on the ground, or to ensure the independence of nuclear energy.
let's focus on renewable energy!
the role of women is becoming more important as we try to create the conditions for sustainable, ecological agriculture adapted to small farmers' structures.
the report clearly highlights the important contribution made by women in recent years to promoting sustainable rural development and achieving diversification and market adaptation of farms.
the eu is committed to making further payments until the end of 2013. in the wake of the russian-ukrainian gas crisis, slovakia considered reactivating the decommissioned bohunice scrap-oil power plant to compensate for the energy shortage caused by the lack of russian gas supplies.
democracy means popular rule, as we all know, and in austria we took that very seriously in 1978. we have asked the citizens about nuclear energy, and the result was clearly a nuclear-free austria.
i therefore ask you, mr president barroso: will you promote uniform, mandatory european standards and will you finally ensure that eu environmental standards, in particular the environmental impact assessment, are properly implemented and that non-compliance is also sanctioned accordingly?
i particularly support the secretary-general's proposal to continue the environmental policy of our house.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the new powers in the fields of energy, world trade and foreign policy, but also in the areas of competition, the environment and social affairs, which are so important to us all, must also be given sufficient resources by parliament.
however, fraud does not just happen, but requires a high level of criminal energy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
we have now had the lisbon treaty for two years, and in it we have for the first time enshrined the sustainable social market economy as a european regulatory model.
the current revision of the 2006 fisheries partnership agreement, in the context of its renewal, also incorporated the basic principles of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources in the comorian zone.
control activities play an increasing role in the sustainability and survival of the fisheries sector and it is important that member states and their supervisory authorities implement control measures in their waters to ensure that fisheries are regulated and conserve resources.
in addition, the importance of aquaculture is increasing, so that it is justified to introduce the possibility of collecting, managing and using ecological data in addition to socio-economic data.
− while mr fernandez's report on the eu parliament's budget for the financial year 2012 reflects to a large extent austerity, prudent use of budgetary resources and the greatest possible transparency in the use of funds, as well as support for ongoing environmental policy and constant information to european citizens, it does not reflect the views of the european parliament.
another factor in ensuring the lasting and sustainable growth of european economies is the promotion of the services sector.
in general, the single market must be made more attractive in order to become an environment that is innovative and business-friendly.
it is therefore high time to take the old and/or earthquake-prone power plants off the grid once and for all and to phase out nuclear energy in the long term.
let us invest in alternative energy sources and use them!
thirdly, of course, the area of energy transition: you could probably do something about the tailwind - bitter as it is - that is now here in europe because of the reactor disaster in japan.
it will cover all the dangers of nuclear energy and hopefully will be a catalyst for a comprehensive rethinking of the use of nuclear energy in europe.
the numerous amendments tabled by the green group were necessary to address directly the many dangers and to call for a rapid phase-out of nuclear energy.
- it is high time to rethink the use of nuclear energy in europe!
we must start acting now, shut down dangerous reactors and find a way to phase out nuclear energy altogether in the medium term.
the misconception that man has control over the dangers of nuclear energy must be abandoned once and for all.
but at the same time, there is a vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, and unfortunately the sharing of persons has not yet been invented.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i do not want to say whether it is good or bad for us in the end, but i would perhaps like to know in advance how the effects are assessed in the social field, how it looks in the environmental field or in the field of the labour market.
the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's white paper on the environment.
the european environment agency has done important work in recent years in providing independent and reliable information and data on the environment, which is a major concern for a large number of european citizens, as the annual reports of the committee on petitions show.
− the european maritime safety agency's budget was also cut by 3.8% in 2009. the agency's tasks, which include environmental disasters at sea, are particularly important in view of the state of eu waters.
i would have liked to have clarified this question in the light of the current pan-european rethinking of nuclear energy.
the commissioner, it is not only in the banking sector that there are regulations that do not work, but unfortunately also in the environmental sector.
we have a 2006 waste shipment regulation, but it is not working because there is an increase in the shipment of hazardous waste across eu borders, especially to developing countries where there is no guarantee of proper disposal of this hazardous waste.
this improper disposal causes environmental and health problems, which in extreme cases cause the death of many people.
part of our 2020 strategy is the resource strategy, and waste is one of our resources.
we want energy from these countries.
the financial sector has not been focused solely on short-term profits, but has undermined efforts to achieve sustainable growth.
− european forestry is more sustainable than any other sector of the economy, and european forest owners have been adhering to the strictest forestry and nature protection laws for generations.
the report on the green paper on forest protection and forest information presented by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, however, reveals an unbridled regulatory frenzy without recognizing the importance of the forest as a source of jobs and an economic engine.
the eu's forest management sustainability criteria are exaggeratedly demanded without regard to regionalism and national competence.
the essential points which go beyond the competence of national forestry policy and weaken the economic factor concern above all provisions for wood supplies within europe - the term 'sustainability' is still not defined.
another point i reject is the assumption that wood biomass is not sustainable.
the eu should do more to ensure that sustainable forest management practices in europe serve as a model for other countries.
− the loss of forests across europe is both an ecological problem in terms of habitat and climate and an economic problem.
the current environmental conditions are changing europe's forests.
the challenge is to create an environment today that fosters the innovation of tomorrow: investing in research and development, protecting intellectual property, particularly in patent law, and promoting creative skills in school.
it's good for the consumer and good for the environment.
in order to achieve sustainable system stability, these must be seen and discussed in their full context.
− promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth necessarily implies the best possible training opportunities and opportunities.
this allows citizens to influence and shape a sustainable society.
− mr president, as the rapporteur, jo leinen, said, the purpose of the commission proposal is indeed to establish a common legal framework for the collection, compilation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in order to facilitate more balanced decision-making with the goal of sustainable development.
at a time when we are striving, in europe, to achieve a resource-efficient and sustainable economy, this data will allow us to link environmental factors to economic ones and thus offers the possibility of more comprehensive and better-informed policy making.
following very fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, i believe we have reached our common objective, namely the establishment of this framework regulation on european environmental economic accounts with its first set of three modules, which cover air emissions accounts, environmentally-related taxes or levies and material flow accounts.
with this regulation we have established an important basis for statistical information about the interplay between the economy and the environment, which we hope to expand with further modules in the future as included in the report and the draft resolution.
let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur, jo leinen, the shadow rapporteur, mr martin and all the members of the committee on the environment and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their constructive approach and their very valuable contributions.
i am very pleased to be here, not only as an independent member, but as someone who can represent the views we have adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with this opinion - it was not a shadow report, but an additional opinion, even more extensive than that of the lead committee on the environment, public health and food safety - in a vote of 37 to 0. in concrete terms, this means that we want to move towards what i call european sustainability statistics, or ens for short.
we are 37 to 0 to 0 in the opinion that the commission needs more money for an ens, for such a european sustainability statistic in this area.
today and tomorrow we decide the first step, this sustainability bill.
for example, if we invest in energy efficiency and use less energy, this would have a negative impact on gross domestic product.
we hear in the media a polarization between the economy on the one hand and the environment on the other.
this data would help to weigh whether something is good for the environment, whether something is good for the environment and good for the economy, whether something is good for the economy and good for the environment and good for our social environment.
we want to create and improve quality of life, not only in the workplace but also in our environment.
i am very confident that we will succeed in strengthening the credibility of europe in the environmental and economic spheres on the basis of this ecological economic balance sheet.
a european environmental economic balance sheet will provide us with important data to make environmental aspects visible in policy decisions of various kinds and thus to take them into account across a cross-section of subjects.
the data collected and analysed will be crucial for effective measures to counter the environmental impact of economic activities.
the need for sustainable policies to meet the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss, increasing pollution and the threat of depletion of our natural resources is strongly supported today.
reliable data and the resulting forecasts on the use of natural resources not only allow the success of sustainable economic policies to be clearly measured, but also provide very important added value for the member states.
i have to say, madam president, if we want to preserve our environment for future generations, we must not consider economic and environmental aspects separately.
it is therefore sensible to supplement national accounts with environmental policy factors, and the basis of any sound balance sheet is sufficient and reliable data.
this is where the interactions between the economy and the environment become clear.
we'd have a double-digit billion dollars to spend on the smart energy program, on our various battery platforms, on many ways to give us a sustainable environment.
as you know, it is the nuclear lobby which has in recent years succeeded in promoting nuclear power as a climate-friendly alternative.
and as we know, some member states have so much invested in nuclear energy that they cannot easily switch to alternatives.
the fact that canada has the second largest oil reserves after saudi arabia is of strategic importance in the european effort to achieve greater energy security, and we should certainly bear this in mind.
we should be working towards a research programme that will help us to use these resources in the most environmentally friendly and sustainable way possible.
oil sands are just one example of a mythical environmental disaster.
anyone who has looked at canada knows that environmental destruction is happening here on the scale of brazil.
in addition, this environmental destruction also affects the indigenous population, the first nations.
their environment is being destroyed.
discussions on sensitive issues such as oil sands production and its environmental impact, ilo standards, but also on the recognition of technical standards or the traceability of food products, must continue at eye level to achieve consensus.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the transport policy of the transport ministers in the member states is to demand from the european union a sustainable and future-oriented transport policy every sunday and then do everything possible during the week to actively obstruct it.
it is quite clear that there is a majority of transport ministers in the council at the moment who are not concerned about environmental issues.
but it is certainly a good compromise because it takes both sides into account, at least to a certain extent, on the one hand the transport sector and on the other the citizens who suffer from noise and emissions.
the third and most important thing is that it gives member states the possibility and freedom to include costs such as noise and polluting emissions in the toll in future.
the commission has wisely chosen a targeted action plan, whose recommendations include not only the achievement of the 'single european airspace', already a confirmed priority of the eu, but also in the field of road transport, gnss will make an important contribution to the achievement of safety and environmental objectives.
as regards the incentives for fleet renewal, it is also important to bear in mind that we cannot unilaterally impose strict environmental and safety regulations on our domestic shippers and fleet owners and then allow cheap competition to cross the border with stinking scrap vehicles.
− national accounts create environmental returns on economic performance and wealth creation, and the commission proposes that they should include data collection on air emissions and environmental taxes.
the environmental accounts are intended to show only the interactions.
sustainable development in the eu requires an appropriate approach to ecosystems and the growing scarcity of resources.
citizens must be informed about the environmental impact of economic activities.
the issue of energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable forms of energy was already a major issue at the beginning of this period.
in the current period, this agreement with the regions and the member states provides for a total budget of eur 9.2 billion for a sustainable energy policy, with a focus on renewable energy and improving energy efficiency.
in addition, a decision of the parliament and the council in 2009 has allowed for up to 4% of the regional development fund to be used for energy efficiency measures in residential buildings.
the commission is prepared to set up at least 10% of the current eur 51 billion per year as start-up funding for new renewable energy electricity grids.
yeah, we're really serious about 2020. to bring about an energy revolution, we must bring electricity from northern germany to austria.
more tasks, more competitiveness, more sustainable growth, more employment, more research and further integration cannot be achieved with less money, without a cash crunch, without an evaluation of the use of existing resources, without own resources.
it is vital not to maintain the same priorities, namely the expansion of nuclear energy, but to concentrate on the area of security.
such a risky energy technology, with all its dangerous by-products and its deadly effects on man and nature in the event of a super-gau, cannot be promoted under the cloak of climate protection.
unfortunately, the seventh framework programme also provides for funding for research in the field of nuclear energy.
the principle of reciprocity must be respected in order to ensure a solid and sustainable agreement for both parties.
− strategy 2020 is designed to deliver smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
on the one hand, the causal link to the basis of future contract law is questioned, but above all, there is a fear of an additional complication of the legal environment.
one other thing relates to the so-called green ombudsman for the rights of future generations on environment and sustainability.
this is also an area where competences are taken out of the sphere of regulations that were there before, and it makes clear that the issue of sustainability, environmental protection and the rights of future generations – another part of european values – which needs to be important, is no longer as important as it was before.
with regard to the rights of future generations, environmental sustainability is something that is enshrined in the rights of our common european union.
the issue of sustainability of future generations is not as visible as it was before and that is the criticism i have.
why did you not keep it there so that everybody could see a green ombudsman who is in favour of the rights of future generations, environment and sustainability?
in energy policy we need russia's commitment to the principles of a transparent and fair energy policy.
russia can do a lot on its own, especially in terms of energy efficiency, where there are still major shortcomings.
i would like to mention the energy issue, which concerns our neighbour, our common neighbour, ukraine.
russia should not put pressure on ukraine by offering to join the customs union with kazakhstan and belarus or to pay a high energy price.
but skiing also involves, and you have to know and take note of, a beautiful and intact environment, because nobody goes there to ski where there is nothing left.
you said that the current implementation of the environmental impact assessment in austria was sufficiently satisfactory to the commission.
the purpose of the environmental impact assessment is to identify and assess the direct and indirect environmental impacts of projects in accordance with the precautionary principle.
they were advised to ensure appropriate screening for projects with a potential for significant environmental impact, particularly with regard to sensitive areas and the potential for cumulation of projects.
how does the commission assess this aspect of the austrian environmental impact assessment act?
there is a vorarlberg state government, a district administration, which has tried to apply this austrian environmental law to the best of its knowledge and conscience.
this would be extremely important in environmental policy, in particular, if it is to be more widely accepted.
i would like to emphasize the aspect of 'the national authorities have learned' mentioned by the commissioner, because i believe that the action taken by the austrian federal government, namely the minister responsible for the environment, in amending the eia law is to be assessed very positively and that this can be called exemplary, also as a benchmarking, for many other cases that are not so familiar to many people.
this debate shows once again that we have a very big problem in the whole area of the environment, namely a communication problem.
the environment, the economy and regional interests are constantly being played off against each other.
we need the support of the commission to ensure that the environment can also be an essential factor in the economy.
at the moment, there is still far too little emphasis on the fact that measures to protect the environment and nature can also create and maintain jobs.
i would urge that we really work towards raising awareness and that both sides recognize that we need an intact environment if the economy is to continue to function in the future.
will the whole alpine region then be subject to an environmental impact assessment?
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy.
if we hear that some nuclear power stations are not even designed to be weatherproof, we can only appeal to everyone to get rid of nuclear energy as soon as possible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
if you ask europeans what they want from european policy, they say quality of life, then health and the environment.
the contribution of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is essential here, because we want what the europeans want.
we want healthy food produced in a biodiversity, and i mean biodiversity here, biological, but also production technology.
we must ensure that the rural environment is developed and does not become europe's poorhouse.
i have to say, madam president, the report by mr deß is about taking account of environmental and climate protection in agriculture and also about increasing the competitiveness of agriculture.
one thing must be clear: if consumers expect european agriculture to go even further towards greening and sustainability, then the measures must be designed with the necessary financial means.
consumers have high expectations of organic products: they expect organic products to have a balanced ecological balance, which in reality is often more than questionable.
instead of being particularly positive in terms of sustainability, resource conservation, co2 savings and protection of so-called farm animals, organic products are often transported across europe.
he is now the third commissioner to be involved in the nuclear safety, waste and decommissioning agenda.
we should also set standards here, together with the international atomic energy agency.
low production costs and social, environmental and quality standards in third countries that are not comparable to eu standards are driving down prices.
each country should have the right to take into account the concerns of its citizens, such as food security, the environment, concerns about genetic engineering, and the needs of rural areas, in order to promote a sustainable european agriculture.
i have to say, madam president, i think fukushima has changed the world in terms of co2 emissions, too.
we will have to supplement or replace nuclear energy with gas and coal.
the burning of gas and coal will of course cause co2 emissions.
in fact, we should be happy with the reserve that we get from the corresponding efficiency, because with this reserve we can also support the new forms of energy that we need to replace the atom.
gas and coal will play an essential role in replacing nuclear energy.
i also understand growth as sustainable growth in the first place, if it brings social justice.
the urban environment is one of the most important factors in european development.
- i have reservations about the management of radioactive waste, because the initiative in question, although it contains some approaches, is not suited to solving the fundamental problem, which is why i abstained.
although the nuclear industry has been looking for solutions to radioactive waste for five decades, we are still at the beginning.
nuclear waste is transported in millions of tonnes taxpayer-funded high-risk shipments across europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
nuclear waste storage in the immediate vicinity of nuclear power plants and/or in earthquake-prone areas is also particularly risky.
i welcome the decision to make eu agricultural policy more sustainable, to strengthen the competitiveness of european agriculture and to seek a balance between the old and new member states.
for eu citizens, the benefits of food quality and safety, animal welfare and environmental standards, and the vitality of rural areas are vital.
only the interplay between the first and second pillars will allow innovation to be both competitive and sustainable.
the second pillar is a strong element for sustainable agriculture.
there was a difficult environment: the debt crisis, the euro crisis, the nuclear disaster and, finally, the wave of migration due to the arab spring.
i would like to point out, however, that in this area i am somewhat lacking in the discussion on nuclear energy and also in the environmental compatibility issue.
i hope that this report will be received as it is presented today, because it also offers at last the chance to take these environmental considerations and these fears of the people seriously and to shift the decisions back to where they have to be made on this issue in the first place.
as a country of quality production, agriculture is highly valued by consumers, who reward sustainable, gmo-free food production.
the report calls on member states to make these fundamental freedoms possible across the union on the basis of fair, balanced and transparent trade relations and to invest in innovative solutions for transport and logistics, energy efficiency, packaging and waste management in order to provide retailers with access to high-quality products.
− the past financial crisis has clearly demonstrated the concerns about the resilience and transparency of the otc derivatives market due to the frequent use of financial markets by non-financial corporations, especially in the commodities and energy sectors, and due to the use of financial instruments for hedging.
the regulations must now be assessed clearly, otherwise there will be market risks which could have a negative impact, especially in the food raw materials and energy production sectors.
- whether climate change is one or the apocalypse may be a matter of debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
for all the lofty ideals and goals of environmental protection and public health, it must not be overlooked that the real environmental abusers are the united states and china, which are not getting any economic benefit from their disregard for nature.
the first thing they are asked to do is to change their environmental policy.
the eu is called upon to act in the interests of its own economy and employment and to adapt its environmental policy to the global economic competitive situation.
this report shows that past cohesion policy has made a significant contribution to job creation and the construction of critical infrastructure, as well as to improvements in environmental protection.
− to date, all energy policy strategies at eu level have failed to deliver the desired results.
however, the eu continues to place too much emphasis on nuclear power and too little emphasis on the development of alternative energy sources in its support programmes.
in addition, the integration of renewable energy sources can only be achieved if the transmission networks are developed and strengthened accordingly.
− the high dependence of the eu countries on a single gas supplier is largely due to the underdeveloped and in many places outdated energy infrastructure between member states.
legislation is needed in the european union to ensure the establishment and development of such infrastructure, as it would remove existing barriers to energy security and efficiency and promote not only the diversification of energy supply but also the combined potential and economic potential of member states.
both the lisbon treaty and the eu's third energy package have identified energy interconnections as one of the eu's priorities.
the eu must maximise all available resources, including by mobilising private finance, to develop europe's energy infrastructure as a priority and avoid a single-supplier dominance in the future.
the european union must create a single energy market with different energy suppliers, stable prices and a level playing field for all member states.
the report on the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond has set out these key objectives and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
− energy infrastructure projects of the future are mainly smart grids citizens need to be able to monitor their household appliances in order to be able to make their own electricity consumption sustainable.
the cost of investment is undoubtedly enormous, but the benefits - security of supply, job creation, pollution control and gdp growth - are significant.
eu development assistance aims at broad-based and sustainable growth, basic social services and education.
other measures include promoting sustainable agriculture and investing in renewable energy, which has the potential to create jobs and promote sustainable development.
it supplements the existing taxation of labour, the environment and goods, and distributes the tax burden more equitably.
in this context, i ask the commission to pursue the idea of a carbon tax, even if this is a difficult issue for all of us politically.
in any case, it can be seen as an urgently needed and sustainable 'investment in the future'.
at the same time, the european union is being asked to pay for education and knowledge, for renewable energy, for all the areas where we think there is a need to invest.
i believe that this means strengthening the external borders on the one hand, but also ensuring food and energy security on the other.
the latter means independence, but we should also seize the opportunity to invest in renewable energy, thereby reducing unemployment and increasing the training of young people.
yes, we need more europe because we have too little europe in economic, fiscal, budgetary, social, educational, research, foreign, energy and defence policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
sustainable growth is particularly important in the area of climate strategy, which is about combating climate change: investments in renewable energy are essential if we are to tackle unemployment, especially among young people.
on the other hand, there is the aspect of energy security: security not only in drawing lessons from fukushima but also in being independent.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
it is very bitter where we are today, because it has become clear that without clear european sustainability standards - we now talk more about resilience, even about going backwards - without taking into account human rights and openness in terms of action, we cannot achieve any results.
we need a sound, sustainable and balanced trading system and not a patchwork of trade agreements.
plans to support sustainable extraction of raw materials in the eu, however, require a mature strategy.
we know that recycling is becoming economically attractive, given the mountains of e-waste and the rising prices of raw materials.
− i support the international tropical timber agreement, as i believe that promoting international trade in legally harvested tropical timber and the sustainable management of tropical forests should be a key eu concern.
we must put an end to logging and illegal logging to preserve not only the extraordinary biodiversity but also the legal value chain.
i am very clear in my support for sustainable trade relations and therefore support the international tropical timber agreement.
− the international tropical timber agreement (itta) aims to internationalise trade in legally harvested tropical timber, while promoting sustainable management.
in negotiating the amendment of the 2006 international tropical timber convention, the eu commission should focus on the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of damaged areas information and education measures are particularly important.
− the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch) was established by a council regulation of 30 may 2008 pursuant to article 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) for the period until 31 december 2017 by the european community, represented by the european commission, and a non-profit association of european industry ('new energy world') involving european companies of all sizes in the field of fuel cell and hydrogen technology, with its seat in brussels.
the eu must therefore find sustainable solutions to these problems.
plans to support sustainable extraction of raw materials in the eu require a mature strategy.
recycling is slowly becoming economically attractive in the face of the mountains of e-waste and rising commodity prices.
− with the threat of raw material shortages, the fear of raw material supply bottlenecks and the prospect of future market dominance by the people's republic of china, the eu needs to find innovative ways of using raw materials to ensure the eu's security of supply and competitiveness while respecting the principle of sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the energy sector is thankfully no longer a purely national or regional matter but a european one, and that is why we need european regulation.
ten years after the liberalisation of the energy market, we are now coming to realise that there are rules to be followed.
it is more important than ever to ensure that energy markets are monitored more transparently and effectively, and that any attempts to manipulate or abuse the market are detected and punished.
we need a single energy market and we need to overcome the existing frontiers.
we want to create an instrument to prevent market abuse in the energy sector.
it proposes a common european approach to prohibiting insider dealing and market manipulation in wholesale energy markets for all electricity and natural gas products not covered by the market abuse directive.
as regards the scope of the regulation, it should be noted that wholesale energy markets should include not only organised exchanges but also unregulated markets, as their transactions may affect trading on energy exchanges.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the need for a separate agency to improve cooperation between the energy regulatory authorities of the member states is, however, questionable.
secondly, consumers cannot benefit from the benefits of energy liberalisation as long as it is difficult to switch suppliers because of incomprehensible electricity bills.
this is the case, for example, with questions such as the recognition of professional qualifications, which can be very important for an individual's destiny, or with certain environmental issues, land ownership issues, or anything else that directly affects citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
environmental protection is much less of a focus than is security, for example.
but this is often used by member states to repeal environmental laws.
for years, a large proportion of petitions have been referring to the ep shortcomings in the implementation of environmental directives.
we have a problem here, of course, because we import a lot, whether from china, the arabian peninsula, russia, whether energy or raw materials, everything has to be paid for.
i would like to start by thanking my colleague skylakakis, with whom i started this initiative, because i believe that we must use all the means at our disposal to combat climate change.
it has contributed very much to the reduction of these ozone-depleting substances, but at the same time it also has the side effect of restricting substances which are also relevant to climate change, such as hfcs, at costs which are much lower than those of avoiding co2.
we know that soot as an aerosol also contributes to global warming and, in particular, by being deposited on snow and ice surfaces, accelerates their melting.
a final area is the ground-level ozone, which is also very climate relevant.
here we must strengthen and improve the implementation of the rules we have created through the air quality and subsidiary directives, so that the production of this climate-relevant gas is also prevented.
i would like to remind you once again that we must be united in the fight against climate change.
more europe means more investment in the long term in the education of all our citizens - creating the opportunity for new and sustainable jobs; and when there's more work, there's more tax revenue for the state.
− the report deals with the commission's proposal for a regulation to establish at eu level the legal framework to combat market abuse and market manipulation in the form of insider trading in the energy, gas and electricity sectors.
the main complaints are about shortcomings in the application of european legislation, but also about decisions taken by national authorities or requests for help on the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market, with the remaining uncertainty about eu competences leading to a number of petitions being rejected as inadmissible.
- climate change has been happening since the beginning of our planet, as science has now demonstrated in a very impressive way.
new climate targets are agreed on a regular basis, and failure to meet them can result in draconian penalties.
under the guise of 'climate action', there is a trade that is swallowing billions of euros worldwide, without being sure that it could make a lasting difference.
i did not vote for the resolution because, as i said, i do not believe that it has been proved that climate change is caused or even aggravated by human activity.
− ambitious and coordinated action is needed at all levels to tackle climate change effectively.
the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety rightly calls for a comprehensive european climate change policy which takes account of all the causes of global warming and all the possible measures to combat it.
i agree that in our resolution we demand that sanctions are also put into effect on assets in syria, on oil production in syria, but my group – the greens – also requested that it should also be made clear that the eu member states step up sanctions against syria by banning european companies from investing in the syrian energy sector.
because if we do not fundamentally change our agricultural policy, if we do not fundamentally change our food policy, our energy policy, then we will also have disasters in the future like the ones we are seeing in africa now.
− the eu wants to offer those countries, in particular the republic of moldova, the opportunity, through the european neighbourhood policy, to negotiate a comprehensive free trade area, creating a positive economy through a harmonised business and investment climate.
this is a short-term development aid and not sustainable.
the question therefore arises: can we not work out a joint programme with the national finance ministers for the european union's own resources, for example the auction proceeds for the co2 problem areas, so that these funds can only be spent on european added value, namely to accompany co2 and climate warming with scientific, research and innovation?
commissioner, would you be prepared to have these talks and try to put together a programme with european added value in addition to the financial framework now under discussion, which will help us in the short term to better research the issues of climate warming and co2 and to put solutions and - especially for small and mediumsized enterprises - appropriate products and services in place, so that the forward strategy for europe will also be sound?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
but we must also learn from recent disasters and abandon particularly risky technologies such as nuclear energy and deep-sea drilling.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to emphasise my demand, which was supported by a majority of the european parliament: that every eu trade agreement with third countries must include a sustainability chapter covering the production and processing of goods.
the eu has agreed to grant palestine duty-free access to the european market for agricultural and fishery products, thus signalling an important step towards sustainable development in the region.
− the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde is classified as important for eu fishing activities, while eu fishing activities in cape verdean waters will have minimal impact on the sustainability of the waters, according to the evaluation report.
in addition, quality labels, for example for environmental protection or quality tourism, have been created and some tourism projects have been promoted.
the report presented states that tourism must not be at the expense of the environment.
the commission's new four-pillar model aims to strengthen the sustainable growth of the sector and includes important measures to protect the environment or preserve cultural heritage.
these can have a massive impact on the countries bordering them and cause considerable damage to the environment.
furthermore, the report contains inappropriate links with climate policy objectives which cannot be justified in the context of funding for dam reinforcement in developing countries.
− i support the report on a new trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy as it identifies important areas for a sustainable and competitive europe.
the commitments to a multilateral trading system, the removal of trade barriers and the integration of sustainability chapters in bilateral trade agreements are a clear guideline.
in this context, there are a number of issues which are not adequately addressed in this report, although they are key elements of sustainable competitiveness in the eu: firstly, the interests and problems of smes, which form the backbone of our economy, are not being taken into account enough: i am thinking in particular of the access of smes to finance for international trade, to enable them to internationalise and thereby to promote their innovative capacity.
and if we are going to reproduce something, we should also know in what environment this new project is being born.
we have often heard the criticism today that the flame of europe is only really burning in this chamber and that there is a lot of child-waste, if we think of the council and the individual member states.
this means that it will be our joint task - that of the members of parliament, your task as president and, above all, the task of the presidency of the council - to help ensure that this renaissance takes place in an environment where the public has confidence.
there is no guarantee that this is a sustainable economy, that there are opportunities for the future.
it is unacceptable that member states should be putting the red pen in the social benefits for their own citizens, while at eu level commitments for migration and refugee flows are to be increased, while savings are to be made in crime prevention and combating, all this via funds to be reallocated at the expense of the recovery programme for energy networks.
the aim is to ensure sustainable growth by coherently linking related policies and subjecting financial markets to increased regulation and supervision.
this will include the development of a set of specific, indicative and transparent indicators, developed jointly by the european parliament, the council and the commission, covering both nominal and real convergence, as well as internal and external imbalances between countries, changes in productivity and its drivers, such as research and development, foreign/domestic investment, and changes in sectors, including energy, affecting gdp and the current account.
− an improved economic governance system in the eu must be based on mutually agreed policies for sustainable growth and employment, based on the core principles of the stability and growth pact.
− the long-term sustainability of public finances is central to preventing a situation like the one we have today in the future.
the decision that a member state is in an excessive deficit shall be taken by the council taking into account developments in the medium-term economic situation, including contributions from labour, capital formation and the productivity factor, developments in the medium-term budgetary position and developments in the medium-term government debt, and the dynamics and sustainability of the latter .
the same goes for daily consumption: it would be sustainable to use about 25 litres of water a day, as is used in south africa, for example, whereas in europe we use about ten times that amount.
the un conference on sustainable development in rio in june 2012 is part of a historic series of conferences on the environment and sustainability.
each conference had defined new objectives in the light of sustainable development.
the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european year of the environment.
it is necessary to ensure that environmental resources and economic development go hand in hand, especially in developing and emerging countries.
secondly, the institutional framework for sustainable development.
the means must be found to make sustainable development a reality.
− due to climate change and its catastrophic effects, sustainable use of natural resources is essential.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the adoption of the resolution also gives the fisheries committee the freedom to deal with issues closely linked to the agreement, such as economic, environmental or development policy aspects.
we are also solving part of the climate problem in the long term and in a sustainable way.
the next climate summit is coming up.
it is wrong, in times of economic crisis and climate change, to simply ignore socially and environmentally sustainable services.
i am in favour of the criterion of the most sustainable offer in order to introduce these essential political ideas into the markets and into economic life.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
realising the potential of the single market the eu's economic pillar is one of ten objectives in the 2011 annual growth survey to be achieved by 2012. we are all called upon to harness this potential, for example by financing infrastructure projects and boosting competitiveness, with a particular focus on smes and the creation of green jobs, in order to contribute to sustainable growth in europe.
the commitment and efforts for people should be seen as a sustainable social investment.
the disadvantage is the low-cost approach, which is detrimental to quality, innovation and sustainability.
the technical production process is also crucial in terms of sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
to this end, the political strategies in the area of division of labour should be revised to ensure that human rights, social inclusion, equality and climate change are taken into account.
i speak viennese now: if i have to run around a laiberl every day - let's say in vienna - that is, i have to constantly look for an internship, think about whether i will get the next temporary employment contract, it takes so much imagination and energy that should be better spent on acquiring the appropriate qualifications.
in a europe-wide distribution, 10-year-old girls were shown in provocative, provocative poses - a clear incentive for the generation of criminal energy in paedophiles, according to experts.
as regards decoupling, the commission should evaluate the results of the third energy package and develop meaningful options that also ensure an independent network operator.
the disappearance of bees affects agriculture, rural development, food production, the conservation of biodiversity and, ultimately, our lives.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission has therefore proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
the report recognises the special needs of the most vulnerable groups: by recognising that the priority of tackling child poverty is prevention, this report makes an important contribution to long-term sustainable development in order to achieve one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - to reduce by 20 million by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty.
the extent to which cooperation with the international energy agency (iaea) should be extended is highly questionable in view of its proposals for fukushima, such as lowering radiation levels.
− for the 2012-13 european atomic energy community work programme, criteria are provided for evaluating proposals for indirect actions and selecting projects.
the safety, performance, resource efficiency and the objectives of the medical and industrial applications of radiation are dealt with in this proposal, as are the safety of nuclear installations and the disposal of radioactive waste.
i am opposed to nuclear energy as such and since this proposal refers specifically to the iter project and highlights its new european dimension, i have rejected the report.
− the proposal aims to update the legal framework for european statistics on 'sustainable crops' and adapt it to the needs of users and the market.
many problems of nuclear power, such as the disposal of radioactive waste, but also better management in the event of nuclear disasters and, for example, decontamination of contaminated soil, etc., remain unresolved.
the report calls for more support to be given to monitoring the quality and efficiency of training and to coordinating existing nuclear energy training programmes in the union and in candidate and neighbouring countries.
- as the direct actions in respect of the specific programmes to be implemented under the work programme are not limited to the areas of safety of nuclear activities, non-proliferation and environmental measures, i rejected the report.
the aim is to achieve the innovation union in the field of nuclear energy and nuclear safety.
the report by mr triantaphyllides also highlights the role of private consumption in a sustainable and low-carbon internal market.
this is essential if we are to meet the climate policy challenges of our time.
the main focus is on the following areas: food, health and product safety; creating inclusive growth; reducing co2 emissions from local and regional food production; reducing inequalities among eu citizens (many cannot afford rent or a warm home); solidarity-based funding of social services accessible to all.
− beekeeping is an integral part of european agriculture and is of great ecological and economic importance.
the main concern of the cap should be sustainable farming methods and the permanent exchange of scientific and technical knowledge between national authorities and beekeeping associations should be promoted across the borders.
these include the running of hospitals, education, social housing and energy.
the 'europe' project aims to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth.
investments in new and sustainable technologies are also needed - including in the energy sector - to create new jobs, economic growth and a step towards achieving climate goals.
i'm from the environmental side.
climate and climate can be interpreted differently.
that means that we must actually achieve this restructuring of our economy without having to rely heavily on public subsidies and, above all, without actually being able to change the international price structure for important raw materials, in particular energy sources, because the big emitters such as china and the usa have already signalled their unwillingness to do so.
and some of it from pots that were supposed to be for climate protection!
coal is considered the most climate-damaging fossil fuel.
the international climate funds provide the paradoxical incentive: it is argued that without the subsidies, more emission-intensive power plants would have to be built.
the same game was played with funds for the disposal of climate-damaging refrigerants.
if we want to be a global player, we must also take responsibility for the environment of our planet.
the error rate for cohesion, energy and transport is 7.7% higher than in the previous year.
the training measures have been coordinated with the local social partners and educational institutions and are being invested in a meaningful way in growth areas such as environmental technologies.
in the last fifteen years, the more or less scientific view has become established that the recorded temperature increase is due to man-made co2 emissions.
european leaders are blindly following this dogma and want to commit eu member states at the 2012 durban world climate summit to make european industry and economy much less carbon-intensive.
the fact is, however, that there is no evidence whatsoever of man-made climate change.
it is also a fact that our climate has always been subject to more or less strong fluctuations.
the eurocrats are not concerned with important measures to protect the environment, but with a targeted, profitable scare tactic.
− climate change is one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century and must be given the highest priority.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but it cannot solve the global climate problem on its own, and it requires productive international cooperation.
the current debt crisis must not be allowed to overshadow climate change objectives.
rather, successful climate change policy also contributes to a healthier economy and can be linked to innovation and the creation of green jobs.
in our resolution we are cutting back on this, for example in the energy sector.
we are still much better than the americans in the field of energy saving and energy efficiency, but we can still do research together here.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in the future, the economic importance of the seas is even expected to increase, since they serve as a source of food and energy, are important as trade and transport routes and, consequently, are also tourist areas in coastal regions.
the numerous uses should also be planned in an orderly manner to ensure the necessary environmental protection.
the imp has proven to be a sustainable approach for europe's marine and coastal areas, with successes in preserving marine diversity and sustainably securing europe's energy and food supply, and is now intended to provide a stable framework for future action by 2013. i agreed to it.
instead of spending billions on this and thus artificially keeping it alive despite all the safety risks and the concerns about its profitability, the money spent on this should be better spent on developing alternative and future-oriented forms of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances.
let us invest in sustainable projects to strengthen the labour market by means of well-educated workers.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment.
investing in solar power plants there will not only create sustainable jobs, but also make a significant step towards climate goals by bringing electricity to our vast europe.
the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
− the eu is keen to intensify its relations with ukraine, particularly in the energy sector.
i come from austria, a landlocked country, and i therefore do not view the european union's fisheries partnership agreement with morocco through a fog of self-interest, but on the contrary: i am interested in sustainable, fair fishing and not in the greedy, fast-moving deep-sea fishing.
it would be a yes to an unethical, unenvironmental waste of money.
while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter aims for energy by nuclear fusion.
here is the crucial difference to today's nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic "radiant" substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment.
iter could therefore pave the way to a sustainable energy source, even if its use for electricity generation is still a long way off.
− while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter is aiming for energy from nuclear fusion.
this is the crucial difference with present-day nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic 'radiant' substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment.
it will be seen later whether iter will pave the way to a new energy source.
− while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter aims for energy by nuclear fusion.
here is the crucial difference to today's nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic 'radiant' substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment.
iter could therefore pave the way to a sustainable energy source, even if its use for electricity generation is still a long way off.
− victims of violence often change their environment to distance themselves from traumatic experiences.
− in theory, the objectives of the common fisheries policy, namely to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited under economically, ecologically and socially sustainable conditions, applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem approach, also apply to areas beyond the territorial waters of the member states and community waters.
a closer look at the expensive fisheries agreement with morocco, which is fraught with environmental and international concerns, reveals that these objectives are not always being consistently pursued.
− the present proposal aims at simplifying the business environment and reducing administrative burdens, especially in relation to accounting rules for micro-enterprises.
i would like to repeat my call for sustainability chapters in trade agreements, which must be linked to safeguard clauses.
first of all, in the dialogue we have to have with the leadership in russia and the energy dialogue and, of course, the conclusion of wto entry.
i would remind you that in the water framework directive we have indeed created a legal instrument of the century, which aims to maintain european waters in good ecological condition by 2015. this includes sectoral measures.
in some member states agriculture is the main polluter, in others industrial and municipal waste water, depending mainly on the hardness of the water, which depends mainly on topographical and other geological conditions, and of course also on the state of the sewage system or sewage treatment plant in the member state concerned.
we also expect the commission to continue along this path, in particular, of course, to tackle these diffuse sources of pollution, which are the main cause of most water problems, such as those from agriculture and some industrial waters.
the euro crisis, the greek problem and the general political and economic climate have created an environment in which political ideas and aspirations have not been able to grow to the heavens.
i understand that you are in a difficult environment and energy situation.
i hope we will have a genuinely common environmental policy.
the energy policy priorities were not particularly successful either.
at the durban climate conference, it was also foreseeable that a co2-emission-rich presidency would not be able to fully commit to the eu's ambitious climate goals.
the production process is also different, since in these countries all fruit is used for juice processing, but in the eu only the waste products that are no longer needed for trade.
due to the high environmental costs of imports (co2 emissions), it is of key importance to strengthen the european fruit juice industry.
this will create an incentive for third countries to improve the quality of their products by using more sustainable production methods.
in addition to economic benefits and job creation, strengthening the european citrus sector reduces the high environmental costs of carbon-intensive imports of citrus from overseas.
− phosphorus, mainly from household products such as dishwashing detergents and detergents, is a major contributor to the pollution of european waters.
in the medium and long term, phosphorus pollution threatens to extinguish many fish and aquatic species; the ecological balance of the waters is disturbed.
the background is that phosphorus in detergents and dishwashing detergents is currently responsible for a large part of the pollution of our waters.
− the fisheries agreement with morocco is not only expensive and a source of international concern, but also inefficient: although the principles of sustainability in socioeconomic and environmental terms should also apply outside the territorial waters of the member states and the eu, unfortunately, this is not the case.
there are also serious concerns about emerging environmental problems and a conflict of international law situation.
the european parliament's white paper on transport discusses, among other things, the need for sensible regulation of transport flows in order to keep the economy in our european union moving forward or to get it moving forward and to protect the environment.
the white paper contains very ambitious climate targets for the transport sector, such as the zero-carbon area for urban logistics, and one wonders whether this is not a bit illusory.
sustainable transport could lead to a sustainable economy, but only if it not only focuses on climate objectives, but also manages to meet the mobility needs of citizens and stimulate economic growth accordingly.
at the bonn conference on 5 december 2011 the eu looked to the afghan government to provide the context for this long-term engagement by improving governance and the rule of law and making other structural reforms which are necessary for the transformation of afghanistan into a fully-functioning, sustainable state at the service of its people.
in this environment, multi-donor trust funds have been instrumental in pooling donors around afghan-owned strategies, harmonising aid and contributing to strengthening national public finance management capacities.
with 2014 on the horizon, we will need to focus on reinforcing current mechanisms to ensure that afghanistan becomes a fully-functioning and sustainable state capable of fighting fraud and corruption.
we have already invested more than eur 2 billion in afghanistan from the european union between 2002 and 2010. i think the report comes to a very clear conclusion: there is a high level of corruption, a lack of administrative capacity, a high risk of waste, no independent control bodies, projects without sustainability and effectiveness, and unrealistic timing of projects.
in particular, effective measures against and effective sanctions against marine pollution by ships are important.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the objectives set, namely to achieve zero-carbon urban logistics in major urban centres by 2030 and to completely phase out conventional fuel vehicles by 2050, must not lead to a 'ban' on conventional fuels.
sustainable transport can lead to a sustainable economy.
but only if we do not just focus on climate goals, but also manage to meet the mobility needs of citizens and stimulate economic growth.
in addition, environmental and climate objectives should be given priority in the creation of a single european transport area.
the european union is not entitled to express its opinion on issues such as climate policy and the cultural situation of asian peoples.
it is also essential to tackle problems such as organised crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and climate change.