the problem is not of course discipline in itself, but sound public finances are an absolute necessity to be linked again with a sustainable growth, a credible growth, which creates jobs for our citizens.
the jobs are obviously necessary for the maintenance of our very specific european social model which is accompanied by political and economic freedom, social solidarity and ecological responsibility.
it is therefore important to communicate widely about what the union is doing to restart sustainable growth, generate jobs and build a fairer and more environmentally friendly european society.
cancun, contrary to the pessimists' predictions, has also managed to show some progress on the multilateral path in the fight against climate change.
i have had the pleasure and the satisfaction of sitting in two trilogues on the environment and - no, they should not be given a fat neck, but they do get a little credit this time - here my compliments on the fine presidency.
i think it is fortunate that there was a substantial presence of commissioners potočnik and hedegaard at the major conferences in nagoya on biodiversity and cancun on climate change.
it has been said - and this is sometimes meant in a humorous way - that the belgian presidency did well, because they had a lot of time, they could put all their energy into that presidency.
despite this, real progress can be credited to belgium thanks to the combativeness of your ministers, our ministers: the report of the epsco council before each european council to provide the necessary counterweight to the ecofin council; the conclusions on social services of general interest; pensions, including the conference on pensions held in liège, which highlighted the need to deal jointly with the questions of adequacy and sustainability of pensions - i had the task of emphasizing this -; the epsco declaration on the year of the fight against poverty.
the humanitarian environment is increasingly complex and unwieldy: humanitarian law is often violated, confused roles mean that humanitarian workers are increasingly targeted, and natural disasters are increasing in number and intensity.
finally, the cap must provide an unequivocal response to food security and other challenges, including climate change and the economic crisis in the eu.
over-exploitation of forests threatens not only the local population but also the fauna and flora, and biodiversity.
these agreements reduce the massive deforestation that leads to greater global warming.
our energy security, our commercial and economic interests and our cooperation in the management of migration flows cannot in any way conceal the constant disregard shown by the libyan authorities and colonel gaddafi for the most basic human rights.
the arctic region is attracting increasing attention because of the effects of climate change, the main driver of its evolution.
the european union is a major contributor to climate change and must therefore play a leading role in combating it.
due to the growing need for natural resources, in particular in the union, the arctic represents a significant and varied potential in terms of energy supply (gas, renewable energy), raw materials and fish.
the european union must commit itself to policies that take account of the sustainable management and exploitation of the region's natural resources in terms of environment, security and management.
it is up to the european union to strike a balance between environmental concerns and the race to exploit natural resources, and to take account of the interests of the people of the arctic region.
in this way, the eu will ensure the construction of an area of peace, stability and prosperity, as well as the certainty of the security of the eu's energy supply.
he says, "we're going to talk about energy, and i'd like to focus on energy supply and energy security".
of course, energy supply and energy security are important, but especially in the context of a more global objective, namely an energy system that is fully independent and fully sustainable in the long term.
mr reul, chairman of our committee on energy, - he is not here today - said that politicians should not come up with too many new proposals.
the objective should be to move to fully renewable energy by 2050. it is not a matter of a few individual politicians or a few political groups.
no, it's scientists who say that it's perfectly achievable if you do the right things now to reach that goal by 2050. and yes, there is energy efficiency and many colleagues have spoken about it.
then, of course, we have to invest massively in renewable energy: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of networks of information and communication.
and finally - and this is where europe has a very special task - it has to provide an energy network that makes all of that possible.
on behalf of the s&d group, on the eve of the energy summit and at a time when the commission and parliament are putting such a strong emphasis on energy efficiency and the good management of our resources, this is the kind of directive that should also put such good ideas into practice effectively.
it's about a mountain of waste that's growing, and it's not just about waste.
and we have above all ethical and ecological objections to the way in which these products are treated in third world countries, among others.
the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing every year and therefore raises a number of health and environmental issues in the event of disposal or improper reprocessing.
all these devices - computers, televisions, mobile phones and appliances - also waste scarce raw materials.
today, only a third of this waste is properly collected and treated.
the proposed text addresses several aspects of ensuring the proper disposal of electrical and electronic waste, whether in terms of the collection rate (85 per cent of the waste collected), the purpose of collection, consumer responsibility, the type of equipment or standards for collection, treatment and recycling.
the increase in collection points should make it easier for citizens to dispose of their waste.
it is a further step in the direction of protecting the environment and human health.
eight years after the adoption of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, the european parliament is once again taking a stand on the important issue of recycling waste high-tech products.
and despite undeniable improvements in the treatment, recovery and disposal of this type of waste (an average drop of 20 kilograms of water per citizen in the ocean from the 5.8 tonnes of waste produced per year per european), progress still needs to be made.
i therefore welcome the adoption this afternoon of the florence report, which reinforces the european commission's objective of achieving an eu-wide collection rate of 85% and a recycling rate of 50% to 75% by 2016, depending on the category of waste.
it is common sense put to the service of environmental protection.
i had to deal with these issues of soil contamination when i was minister for the environment of the french republic.
as a french parliamentarian, i worked on an initiative for ecological security in europe.
as you know, there is already a limit for lorries, and i think it would be very useful to legislate on this for environmental reasons, but also for road safety reasons.
i think this would be a good thing for both your jurisdictions, the environment and road safety.
the climate has now, fortunately, calmed down and the left-wing groups seem to have abandoned their dogmatic stance on the services directive, the aim of which, it is important to recall, is to remove the superfluous and burdensome obstacles to the provision of services in the european union.
− reducing co2 emissions is desirable for all modes of transport, including small goods vehicles.
this compromise includes a short-term target of 175 g/km in 2014. it also sets a phase-down target, with a long-term target of 147 g/km by 2020. these objectives are accompanied by measures to encourage industry to build energy-efficient commercial vehicles.
the achievement of these objectives will not only benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main users of sprinters and vans, but also private individuals and, last but not least, the environment.
we should also not allow our expertise to be exported to other countries - such as china - by hesitant eu policies, but use it as a way to shape a sustainable european environmental policy that has a positive impact not only on europe's industrial base, but also on employment.
i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which obliges manufacturers to reduce co2 emissions from vans and other commercial vehicles over the next decade.
the proposal is largely based on the eu regulation on co2 emissions from cars, which has been in force since 2008. a reasonable vote after agreement with the council and which, more or less, takes up the main proposals of the european commission, namely the obligation to reduce polluting emissions from utilities to 175 g/km co2 in 2014 for 100% of the fleet and to gradually reduce them to 147 g/km co2 by 2020. it is a setback, since we voted for a more ambitious target in september 2010 in the committee on the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the proposed legislation is not underestimated.
it will put an end to the waste generated by the coexistence of national and european patents, estimated at nearly eur 400 000 per year.
the agenda calls for the report by ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe' (2010/2239(ini)) (a7-0025/2011).
the agenda calls for the report by marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards the prevention of the introduction into the legal supply chain of medicinal products falsified as to their identity, history or source (com ((2008) 0668 - c6-0513/2008 - 2008/0261 (cod)) (a7-0148/2010).
– mr president, you know that the greens are strong supporters of a more integrated europe in order to be able to ensure sustainable development for our citizens, but also in order to ensure the possibility of europe to mean something on this planet in the 21st century.
this adjustment is consistent with the completion of the european internal market and the europe 2020 objectives on employment and the sustainability of public finances.
but above all i welcome this proposal because it provides for more efficient supply systems which are to be both sustainable and safe.
if we want european citizens to be motivated to work and open to cross-border activities in the future, it is important to offer them a reasonable and sustainable retirement income today, which is harmonised at european level.
although this is a matter for the member states, it should not prevent the european union from assisting the member states in their reflection on how to ensure that european citizens have an adequate, stable and sustainable pension system.
while the commission must honour its commitments to the developing countries and the least developed countries, it must also promote a strong and sustainable cap that is responsive to the needs of european farmers.
we cannot accept opulence and waste when the tragedy of hunger is growing.
i therefore welcome the adoption of sensible proposals such as reducing food waste and the request to the commission to restrict trading in food commodity derivatives to investors with a direct link to agricultural markets.
all these measures are in support of a strong and sustainable european agriculture.
ensuring food safety has links with more effective action to combat climate change, with improved development aid, with the development of other trade structures, with greater transparency in commodity markets and with measures to combat speculation.
the greens also wanted to point out the necessary actions to reduce food waste: twenty to 30 percent of crops are already lost during sowing and harvesting.
i welcome the adoption of this joint resolution which highlights the main factors behind the current surge in food prices, namely the rise in oil prices, the growing production of biofuels which is eating up huge areas of agricultural land, the increasing frequency of climate disasters and speculation on the markets.
as you know, we must put public finances back on a sustainable footing, which means responsible spending, of course, but it also means fair, efficient and sustainable revenue, and as you know, the tax systems that are in place in europe today do not meet these criteria.
they have not been able to stem the growth of inequality in europe and they continue to encourage activities that are destructive of both the environment and social cohesion.
whether it is a question of taxing the financial industry, obtaining a fair contribution from large companies, implementing a climate-energy contribution or effectively combating tax fraud and evasion, you know that only at european level can we put in place effective solutions.
without joint action, it will not be ten years before any member state of the european union is able to return to sustainable public finances.
similarly, we can no longer accept that our farmers, who are bound by very strict environmental and health standards - as has just been mentioned - in particular in the areas of production hygiene, sustainable production and animal welfare, are sacrificed on the altar of international trade, victims of unfair competition and distortions of competition in relation to third countries which penetrate the european market with products which do not always comply with the internal production standards of the european union.
moreover, these agreements are in complete contradiction with the kyoto protocol and its objectives concerning global warming.
according to various studies, the introduction of a 0.05% tax on transactions would generate some €200 billion in annual revenue to finance recovery and development cooperation, and protect the environment, while discouraging financial speculation.
i am convinced that the latter would not only help to regulate the financial sector effectively by limiting purely speculative actions but would also help the poorest, especially the developing countries, and among them the least developed countries, to achieve the millennium development goals and to take the necessary measures to deal with climate change.
in addition, as the revenue potential of a ftt of 0.05% is close to eur 200 billion in the eu and usd 650 billion worldwide, this tax could be an important part of the solution in the search for new and sustainable sources of revenue.
the report also calls for a more detailed examination of the possibilities of issuing euro bonds and of the introduction of a carbon tax.
these inequalities, which are unjust, are the result of multiple economic, environmental and lifestyle factors, but also of difficulties in accessing health care, either in economic terms or in terms of the "poor distribution of medical resources" in certain territories of the union.
similarly, we can no longer accept that our farmers, who must comply with very strict environmental and health standards (in particular in terms of production hygiene, sustainable production or animal welfare), are sacrificed on the altar of international trade, victims of unfair competition and shameful distortions of competition in the face of third countries that penetrate the european market with impunity with products that do not comply with the production conditions imposed by the union.
such policies are good for farmers' incomes and make a substantial contribution to combating climate change, preserving biodiversity and soil fertility.
the introduction of a mechanism to monitor the origin of imported protein crops, checking the sustainability of the agricultural practices applied in the country of origin, is crucial.
regular on-the-spot checks are essential the discussion on the re-authorisation of processed animal protein from slaughterhouse waste for the production of pig and poultry feed should only be conducted in terms of (food) safety and public health.
moreover, these agreements are in complete contradiction with the kyoto protocol and its objectives regarding global warming.
equality between men and women must also be reflected in all policies with concrete and sustainable measures, particularly in the field of education, training and vocational guidance.
these heinous crimes must be fought with all our energy, no matter how serious they are.
a strong commitment to gender equality and the fight against social exclusion, through specific and sustainable actions with adequate financial resources, should be maintained at both european and national levels.
the agenda calls for the report by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on industrial policy in the era of globalisation (2010/2095 (ini)) (a7-0022/2011).
you yourself have referred to the fact that we need an industry which uses less energy and less materials.
we must be bold enough to say that by 2050 we will have an energy supply that is based entirely on sustainable renewable energy, and we must start preparing industry for that now.
it is access to the energy markets and routes of asia and the middle east.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
while the european union has denounced the violation of international law in many respects, as you have just mentioned, we are giving a series of positive incentives - you call them positive incentives - without any counterpart and without any guarantee in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, the environment, police, judicial cooperation, transport and space cooperation, for increased scientific cooperation, and in an acca agreement, without any counterpart.
so, of course, there is the financial transaction tax, the energy tax, the corporate tax - and don't come selling us the consolidated plate as the alpha and omega, the nirvana of tax policy - and, finally, there is the fight against fraud and tax havens.
we must, among other things, focus on cross-border investment in renewable energy.
it will be an excellent injection for our economy, for employment and for the environment of course, and on the basis of the commission's 'roadmap 2050' calculations, absolutely feasible.
it also further strengthens the framework of cooperation on the environment, social protection, competition and security.
on the environment, the agreement establishes a clear framework for tackling local and global challenges.
i also think that the fact that we - and this is what will shape all future agreements - will have to review these agreements on social and environmental matters on a regular basis is not fulfilled, because simplification at economic level must also mean that we can influence not only the european market but also the global market through these agreements.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
it is important that we not only pay attention to the opening up of the market for additional flight rights and such things, but also to the strengthening of the regulatory framework at environmental, social, safety and security level.
as regards the agreements on the table, our group considers that the agreement with canada is the closest approximation to the model we have in mind, namely far-reaching cooperation in the fields of security, social affairs, consumer protection and the environment.
there is no mention of energy productivity.
china, on the other hand, is well on its way to beating us on energy efficiency and resource efficiency.
we think this is right, not only to avoid imposing extremely heavy costs on our fellow citizens in greece or ireland, but also to ensure debt sustainability.
confidence depends on our capacity to modernise, to innovate and to become more sustainable and more competitive.
investment will be attracted if we implement europe 2020 quickly and decisively, and if we pursue our goals of a europe that is sustainable and competitive in the spirit of solidarity and also in solidarity with all member states, including portugal.
the commission is ready to continue to work enthusiastically with you, with the european council, with the council, with all the institutions, for a stronger, more sustainable, fairer, fairer and more competitive europe.
we have managed to find a compromise between ambitious targets, to keep economies competitive and public finances sustainable, and national implementation, because in most cases these are national decisions that have to be made.
for example, the whole nuclear policy, the energy mix, is a matter for national competence, and i can do nothing about it.
we must use these resources to make the much needed crossborder investments, particularly in energy infrastructure, supplemented by european project bonds and public-private partnership funds.
this will not only benefit rural women but also bring sustainable development to the rural area as an integrated economic and living space.
in the age of specialisation of farms, the creative spirit of women is an undeniable plus which, coupled with their greater concern for a sustainable and quality environment, deserves to be recognised and supported at european level.
this is the choice made this afternoon by the european parliament, which, in adopting the jeggle report, underlined the importance that women will play in the future in the revaluation of the rural environment.
the european parliament fears that this delay will lead to dangers for the environment and human health.
− this report looks at the 19 initiatives proposed by the commission which put european citizens at the centre of the single market while aiming at a sustainable social market economy.
secondly, we must ensure that we organise a phase-out of nuclear energy.
there is only one way forward in europe, and that is through renewable energy, and we must seek consensus in this parliament.
confidence in our nuclear energy must be restored.
secondly, by stepping up our research and innovation to develop solutions as quickly as possible that save energy and promote sustainable and efficient renewable energy.
the cheapest, least polluting and least dangerous energy is the energy that is not consumed.
of course, the plants elsewhere in europe, outside the eu, must be subjected to the same independent tests, under the supervision of the international atomic energy agency.
nuclear energy is and will remain a transitional technology, which unfortunately will be with us for decades to come.
we will even have to make new investments to meet our energy needs while stifling our climate ambitions.
- this resolution cannot cover all aspects of the debate on nuclear energy in depth.
i am convinced that we must aim to phase out this energy source and to increase the use of renewable energy sources.
the european citizens expect our institution to be responsible and to exercise common sense, especially on such controversial subjects as atomic energy.
it is perhaps not a bad thing that the choice of energy, and therefore the choice of whether or not to abandon nuclear energy, remains an exclusively national competence.
the greens have been advocating the phase-out of nuclear energy for years, because the risks to people and the environment are unacceptably high and alternatives are widely available.
the only truly safe nuclear energy is not nuclear energy.
the amendment calling for the phasing out of nuclear energy was voted down.
a majority of this parliament still does not seem to understand that it is technically and economically perfectly feasible to generate our electricity in a totally sustainable way, including through energy efficiency, in 40 years' time, using solar, wind, geothermal, water and biomass.
i think we should make better use of these special reports, we should debate them not only in the committee on budgetary control but also in the many committees, for example in the committee on development cooperation when it comes to development cooperation; i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and also the committee on the environment, when it comes to the environment, so that the work you and your colleagues and all your staff are doing is properly appreciated and the european citizens can also see that the money of the european taxpayer is being properly monitored.
it should be recalled that illegal fishing remains one of the greatest threats to the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and is as much a scourge as intensive fishing.
it is true that, for the time being, the decision to change this situation and to achieve savings of some eur 160 000 000 per year while significantly reducing the parliament's carbon footprint is entirely a matter for the european council.
i believe that the evolution of technology and the means of lobbyists will force us to constantly review it so that it is effective and that, by means of directives, we can identify who is lobbying, for how much money, and in what way, and i am also in favour of the ecological footprint, i mean the legislative footprint that could be represented by the number of lobbyists, the people met, and that we can know exactly who said what, who influenced whom.
i am convinced that sustainable forest management is essential to maintaining the capacity of the union's forests to fulfil economic, ecological and social functions.
the commission and the member states must make it compulsory to implement sustainable forest management in the union.
climate change and forests are inextricably linked.
in the fight against climate change, the protection of forests is essential.
as a result of climate change, each forest type and forest sector is exposed to specific and unpredictable threats such as storms, droughts or fires.
sustainable forest management must seek to reconcile production and forest protection aspects.
sustainable forest management is essential to maintain the capacity of forests to fulfil economic, ecological and social functions.
the preservation of biodiversity must be one of the priorities of our political action.
it goes without saying that the protection of forests is a key environmental issue.
well-managed forests are the main carbon sink and play a key role in the fight against climate change.
on the other hand, undergoing intensive deforestation, they account for 25% of all emissions of co2, a greenhouse gas caused by human activities.
the european union, including sweden and finland, which alone account for 33% of europe's forests, as well as the countries bordering the mediterranean, have an interest in strengthening their strategy to combat the phenomena that damage forests, such as air pollution and fires.
in this context, i welcome the adoption, in the context of the vote on the green paper on 'preparing forests for climate change', of paragraph 38 of the arsenis report, which 'urges the commission to submit a legislative proposal for the protection of forests against fire' and in particular envisages 'a ban on all construction for 30 years on land that has been affected by a forest fire'.
the economic, financial, climate and food crises and conflicts have made us aware of the urgency of establishing a global governance or, as jacques attali says, a world state.
we did waste some time.
it is above all about investing in the fabric of smes, the main wealth creator in europe, through venture capital, guarantee facilities, loan support and simplification of the legislative environment.
culture is a vector of openness and a driving force for democracies, acting against any nationalist withdrawal, racist temptation and exclusion that are fuelled by economic and financial crises, climate and food.
they are an inexhaustible renewable energy.
while the stakes are as high as the imf managing director's position - compared to the energy sometimes put into hiring third-level managers in companies - i find the way this is done to be a lack of professionalism.
i am thinking, of course - and this has been said - not only of climate change, but also of energy security, post-fukushima, which will have to be managed, but also of food security, which is being crushed by e. coli.
i shall conclude by mentioning a specific area, since we are talking about priorities and specific areas: nanotechnology, which i believe should be invested in more, as there are many sectors where this is possible: medicine, agri-foodstuffs, electronics, new materials, new energy.
i was rapporteur for the committee on the environment a few years ago, but i remain a strong advocate of banning trade in seal products.
in order to prevent this tragedy from becoming a terrible waste, we must learn the lessons we need to learn: how best to ensure that crossborder traceability is seamlessly established and how to set up a european communication and crisis management unit.
it gives member states the opportunity for the first time to add noise and air pollution to the existing infrastructure charges, which are not yet applied consistently everywhere, in such a way as to encourage fleet renewal.
at the same time, there is also a strong commitment, the strongest possible commitment, by member states to reinvest revenues in the transport system to make it more sustainable and to reinvest at least 15% of revenues in the trans-european transport network.
it is an important part of a solution to a more sustainable transport system.
that means we can start the process of making the calculation for all modes of transport for all external costs so that your economy improves, and also improves your sustainability.
it's not sustainable.
so it's not a big success from an ecological point of view.
it is only a principle, the whole battle is still to be fought and we will continue to fight it to have a real change of modes and a greener transport system, better for health and for the fight against climate change.
at the same time, it also allows member states to generate resources to reinvest in the transport system to make it more sustainable so that those external costs are actually reduced.
a targeted action plan is the best option to provide new momentum and make a significant contribution to safety and environmental objectives and to improving the flow of traffic for road transport.
the text provides that heavy goods vehicles will pay for air pollution and noise pollution.
the agreement approved today allows member states to charge road hauliers for the cost of air and noise pollution, in addition to the price of using motorway infrastructure.
i am therefore still waiting for new proposals which make these new measures compulsory by including the cost of all environmental damage and extend the polluter pays principle to all modes of transport.
it should also be possible to extend these sampling to projects such as reducing air pollution and noise pollution.
the member states will finally be able to include in their taxes or tolls the real costs of air and noise pollution from road transport, whereas only infrastructure costs could be taken into account until now.
the compromise falls short of the european parliament's ambitions and will not, on its own, revolutionise road transport, whose sector and member states are clearly not yet ready to shoulder the real cost of the ecological footprint.
and this is a step forward that i welcome, a positive first step towards more sustainable road transport.
this proposal for a regulation dates back to a decision of the european council of june 2006. at the time, the eu decided to extend the existing national accounts and the statistical data to be collected to the main aspects of sustainable development.
to complement national accounts and data, the commission has proposed a regulation to establish european environmental economic accounts.
collected at regional, national and european level), i am of the opinion that if the need for these additional modules is proven, does not generate unnecessary bureaucracy and additional costs, in this case eurostat should be allowed to collect data from member states for the creation of economic and environmental accounts at european level.
that is why i also welcomed the establishment of these new european environmental economic accounts and proposed to extend their scope to other modules.
the report voted today provides, and i welcome this, for the ia to be carried out in a totally independent manner; the commission has also proposed that ai take into account a wider range of criteria (socio-economic, environmental, etc.)
it recalled that, in the absence of significant budgetary reallocation or additional resources, europe would be unable to fulfil the new tasks assigned to it by the lisbon treaty or to embark on a path of sustainable growth.
however, there are many areas which can contribute to synergies or economies of scale: the european external action service, humanitarian aid and civil protection, pooling of defence resources, research and innovation, major infrastructure projects (especially in the energy and transport sectors).
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas and repealing regulation (eec) no 4064/89 (com (97) 0241 - c4-0414/97).
the fact that there is an independent, objective european investigation of each nuclear installation is very positive because it strengthens european energy policy.
of course, that is a unique moment to switch to renewable energy sources.
we are counting on you to take the lead in this new step towards the development of a european energy policy.
what i think is essential is that aid should be directed mainly to active farmers, not to landowners, to give priority to food security, but also to sustainable agriculture, which is more environmentally friendly, ensures better management of resources and plays a role in combating global warming.
for the first time in history, we have introduced a degressive system of aid based on criteria relating to employment and environmental aspects.
in short, all the ingredients are in place for the commission and parliament to work together to shape the new common agricultural, food and environmental policy that we so badly need.
it maintains two strong pillars: the first pillar of direct aid must be appropriately endowed in line with the challenges facing agriculture and therefore financed at the minimum level of current funding, but it will nevertheless be more complementary to the second pillar on measures to support sustainable development.
in my view, we must just take the necessary measures to ensure that the greening of the first pillar does not add to the ecological constraints already heavily imposed on farmers, whose primary role is food production.
we could have agreed to vote on this stability and growth package as it stands if it had been accompanied by an ambitious fiscal package, combining a financial transaction tax, an energy tax, a fair taxation of transnational companies and, of course, a fight against tax evasion, in such a way as to give the member states and the union the means to achieve their ambitions.
good jobs, sustainable growth and room in the future for an adequate social policy.
but regardless of the point of view, the problem of waste is a reality and we must treat it as well and as safely as possible.
i therefore welcome this report, which contributes to a more stringent and safer waste policy, treats each member state equally and points out the responsibilities of waste producers.
that is why i am also calling for a ban on the export of nuclear waste to third countries.
we have no control over the waste policy in third countries.
we must treat our own waste ourselves and demand, through strict legislation and proposals, that this be done in the safest and most technically optimal way.
the unilateral focus on austerity without seeking to increase eu revenue is not the basis for a sustainable fiscal policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste disposal system is not disrupted by the nuclear accident in japan, but also because the so-called 'highly active and long-lived' radioactive waste is still being stored on a temporary basis.
that is why i also voted for the amendment to ban nuclear waste management facilities in seismic or coastal areas with a high risk of sea level rise and tsunamis.
it was important that the european parliament gave an opinion on the revision of the radioactive waste directive.
it is a sign of responsibility and maturity to ignore differences on whether to maintain or abandon nuclear power and to reject an effective policy of disposing of nuclear waste.
i particularly welcome the adoption of amendments nos 124 and 130 which call for a ban on nuclear waste management facilities in seismically hazardous or coastal areas and for the development of a safety briefing to accompany any radioactive waste management activity.
it is to be hoped that the european energy ministers will hear this strong message in favour of a culture of safety.
and the use of transportation as the ultimate solution for highly radioactive waste.
- i abstained on the vote on the cizelj report following a proposal from the european commission to lay down rules on the management of radioactive waste.
moreover, if the eu wants to use nuclear energy, it must manage its own nuclear waste.
the european green group welcomes the fact that a majority of meps rejected further exports and approved a green amendment banning the storage of radioactive waste in seismic zones.
the cap needed to be revised to better address the challenges of food security, climate change, sustainable management of natural resources, maintenance of the natural environment and maintaining a vibrant rural economy.
the cap must therefore be reformed to meet the challenges of today's production and food security, environmental protection and renewable energy production.
the report which was voted on this afternoon takes up, and this is good news, the broad lines laid down by the european commission in favour of a gradual reform based on a more balanced, more targeted aid system with a marked 'ecological' orientation.
i am in favour of family farms, of stable and fair prices for farmers and consumers, of a shift towards sustainable and social agriculture respecting the limits of our natural resources.
we need to shift livestock production to animal-friendly and ecological production, ending our dependence on imported soybeans for animal feed.
member states may prohibit or restrict gmos on the basis of additional environmental motives, such as the prevention of pesticide resistance in weeds or pests, such as the preservation of local biodiversity, such as scientific uncertainty about the possible negative effects of gmos, such as the socio-economic impact and the excessive cost of coexistence of conventional organic and gmo agriculture.
this report balances the debate on respect for the environment and the socioeconomic survival of farmers, and that is why i support the report by mrs lepage.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the production of foodstuffs.
it should also be borne in mind that to restore citizens' confidence, it is crucial to set effective criteria that respond to their concerns about the environment.
environment and health are by definition problems that we should tackle together.
environment and health do not stop at the borders of the member states.
i agree with the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
we must prevent global warming of 2 degrees.
however, the current crisis situation is also a real obstacle to the environmental progress announced before the economic crisis.
i unfortunately had to vote against the eickout report, which was considerably watered down by the plenary session this afternoon and the adoption of epp amendments falling short of the so-called "3x20" targets of the energy/climate package adopted in 2008. these are objectives that are not only aimed at combating climate change and protecting the health of future generations, but also at facilitating investment in innovation and future technologies.
this vote is all the more regrettable because it goes against the choice of a part of european industry, which has already made the bet on a low-carbon society.
in addition, the number of jobs in eco-industries is very encouraging: 3.4 million people currently, a figure that would be "boosted" with the eu's climate target being raised to 30%.
the commission and the member states must not therefore turn their backs on their ambitious climate change objectives, or fall behind certain us states and china, which are surely converting to green technologies.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the community's environmental policy.
finally, i took the opportunity to stress once again the need for coherence in development policies and to reiterate my wish that the cfsp should focus on the promotion of democracy and human rights, which are key conditions for sustainable development.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
what is missing is the mandatory indication of the five main ingredients (salt, sugar, fat, saturated fat and energy content) per 100 grams or 100 ml on the front of the packaging, as well as a ban on, or at least a mandatory indication of, saturated fats.
we must change the mindset if we are to make this policy sustainable.
a clear majority of parliament has been won in favour of the creation of a european energy community.
europe must itself work towards a truly european energy policy.
this must be the eu's core business, because it is the only way to meet climate objectives and to turn our fragile position as a major energy importer into maximum self-sufficiency.
the treated slaughterhouse waste may only come from species not associated with tse diseases.
the production and sterilisation methods used for the treatment of slaughterhouse waste must meet the highest safety standards.
the treatment of slaughter waste of different species should be completely separated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we cannot continue to accept the existence of abundance and waste, when the tragedy of hunger is becoming ever more acute.
we must find a way to make this program of aid to the most deprived sustainable.
the adoption of this resolution clearly indicates our desire to be kept informed of any measures concerning the implementation of this agreement, which has a dual commercial and environmental dimension, since its main objective is to 'promote the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber from forests managed and harvested in a sustainable manner and to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests'.
global warming requires strict measures to ensure environmental governance that respects natural resources and contributes to the sustainable development of the planet.
none of the major tropical forestry regions is exempt the information requested by the european parliament is crucial because this issue is at the heart of the challenges facing the world as a whole, such as global warming, food security, the fight against poverty (1.5 billion people are said to depend on forests for their survival), the fight against corruption and organised crime.
emergency plans must be made available... and we also had to take a position in favour of extending the scope of the environmental liability directive so that the 'polluter pays' principle and strict liability apply to all damage to marine waters and biodiversity, so that oil and gas companies can be held responsible for any damage they may cause!
the deepwater horizon oil rig accident in the gulf of mexico in april 2010 reminded us of the dangers of offshore oil drilling to the environment, biodiversity and coastal communities.
this is a reminder that the european parliament has taken note of, when it voted this afternoon on a resolution strengthening environmental and safety standards for all offshore oil and gas activities.
paragraph 76 explicitly calls for the scope of the environmental liability directive to be extended to all damage to marine waters and biodiversity, with increased liability for oil and gas companies which would assume full coverage of potential damage.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the global approach to anthropogenic emissions other than co2 with a bearing on climate by jo leinen, richard seeber and theodoros skylakakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000135/2011 b7-0418/2011).
the six-pack does not answer the question of how to develop socioeconomic policies that generate long-term sustainable prosperity for all europeans.
firstly, spectrum is - as mrs trautmann said - a rare commodity, and above all a common commodity, like so many other things: air, climate, water, etc.
i think of diseases caused by environmental pollution and chemical pollution.
it was strongly emphasised that an integral anchoring of quality, sustainability, participation and accessibility in the tourism sector can be a win-win situation for all those involved, and these principles also feature prominently in the report.
similarly, palestinian products must be recognized as such in order to promote palestinian economic development because, if there can be no sustainable development without peace and security, there will be no sustainable peace without economic development and poverty eradication.
the european commission's communication of june 2010 provided for 21 actions to make the sector more competitive, including: promoting sustainable, responsible and quality tourism; facilitating sound business management by introducing european labels and encouraging projects and networks in the sector.
with the adoption of this report, we welcomed the commission's strategy and called for integrated measures to further promote tourism in the union via the 'europe label', and to increase the visibility, quality, competitiveness, accessibility and diversification of the sector, while respecting subsidiarity and the environment.
but is it up to the challenges of food security: unchecked population growth, pressures on natural resources and the adverse effects of climate change on agriculture?
these are tensions that are not sustainable.
only the coherence of the 27 macroeconomic policies and the reduction of fiscal and social competition will enable the european union to return to the path of sustainable growth and jobs.
it is no wonder, then, that the eu has little clout at the global level to enforce its ideas, and it is almost absurd to demand the highest standards of protection and the strongest reductions in greenhouse gases, among other things, in europe.
in all international agreements environmental standards and social standards must be considered as the main part of the agreement and not as a subchapter.
it is therefore important that the tax proposals on financial transaction tax, energy taxation, etc.
parliament has asked for: (1) an evaluation report on the european public investment banking system, as already called for in its resolution of 25 march 2009. this assessment should describe options for the best way to streamline the system, while taking into account the potential effects of restructuring on the lending capacity of the respective banks in the crisis-hit economies; 2. the governor of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to report annually to the competent committee of the european parliament on the promotion of the union's objectives, in particular as regards the eu's millennium development goals, the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and the increased shift towards renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technologies; 3) that controls be tightened to prevent beneficiaries from using tax havens in projects in which the ebrd is involved.
i therefore fully support the paragraphs which call for good and legally binding agreements on social and environmental criteria and the substitution of the criterion of the lowest price for the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer.
public procurement has consequences for citizens and our environment.
we must take a long-term view of these markets and ensure that the criterion of the most favourable offer in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits takes precedence.
we must therefore be vigilant and increasingly use sustainable public procurement which incorporates social and environmental criteria.
social and environmental criteria cannot be eliminated by such subcontracting and must remain controllable and be controlled.
our economic management must be based on an approach that focuses on traditional macroeconomic and financial policies on the one hand and on a policy that gives priority to job creation and social protection on the other, because without a take-off in domestic demand there can be no sustainable recovery.
in recent years, the eu has put a substantial amount of energy and effort into promoting adaptation to change and restructuring.
not only today, arcelormittal in liège, but also a whole sector that is inexorably linked to its customers: automobile construction, construction, the green industrial revolution, that is to say wind turbines, trains, trams, all those constructions that require a sober steel, an environmentally sustainable steel, a steel that is well inserted into an industrial fabric.
and to do that, commissioner, will require more energy than you have given us.
(applause) i would like to thank
(start of the intervention without microphone) your speech is to say: 'let's not be too ambitious on the environment, because we're going to hurt our industry.'
europe must therefore devote sufficient budgetary resources to relaunching a voluntarist industrial policy on a continental scale, a policy which does not put workers in competition, which does not promote social dumping, but which supports research, develops centres of competitiveness, ensures the maintenance of integrated sectors, and takes up the energy challenge.
and the same is true of social and environmental standards.
it is also within this framework that all the tax, social and environmental subsidies that these companies have been able to benefit from must be recovered.
in this context, to foster sustainable and green growth, the eu must pay special attention to smes, the real engines of economic growth, which produce 58% of all the eu's added value; • effective training adapted to the labour market; • the integration of women into the labour market (they account for only 30% of all entrepreneurs); • the integration of people with disabilities; to ensure a flexible, inclusive and active labour market; to improve research and innovation.
we must ensure that future generations enjoy sustainable growth, based on a competitive economy and able to exert influence on the international scene.
it is this guarantee – the percentage of this guarantee – that makes the system credible and sustainable and ensures that the firepower is sizeable and can be used on the markets.
what we need now, mr barroso, is for him to be able to create an inner cabinet in the commission where he chairs all the portfolios of the commissioners related to the euro, so that you make it sustainable and markets see that there is a government, an inner cabinet, in the commission dealing with these problems.
that, i believe, requires primarily a stronger employment dimension to industrial policies, which is why we have to reinforce industrial policies at eu level and make a stronger connection between job creation and the sustainability of jobs and industrial policy.
other priorities include reducing consumer inequalities, a low-carbon economy and protecting children from advertising in the fight against obesity.
globalisation, environmental awareness and technological developments have dramatically changed consumer habits.
this report seeks to define a better, coherent legal framework for a safe and transparent environment that takes into account the concerns of europeans.
the european parliament has a pressing duty to protect bees and other pollinators so important for the planet and biodiversity.
in addition, in paragraph 73, which i of course supported, the resolution also calls for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communication.
it is a key player for the environment and sustainability, it is also in it, and it is a key player for growth: 10 million jobs in europe and about 7% of gdp.
everyone says it would help everyone, it would save energy and be safer.
these can also be an excellent investment in sustainable products.
but very few of us are discussing a convention that deals with issues of immense importance that affect a huge population and a region of the world that is paying an extremely high price, which is ultimately the revealer of all the issues we are asking today, whether it is the issue of climate change, energy issues, financial issues or democratic issues.
we are at a point where countries which are europe’s third and fourth economies have interest rates of nearly 7% – which is not sustainable – and where the second biggest economy is paying double that of the benchmark, germany.
it is very good, joseph, that france and germany meet each other from time to time – they do it every two weeks – but it is not sustainable and it is not convincing for the markets.
but we are doing the opposite with a financial transaction tax, with european taxes and with emissions taxes.
in 2010, we have therefore not ruled out any debate on the fate of the world, whether it be the mdgs, the epas, climate change, food security, haiti, south sudan... in kinshasa, for example, we welcomed the excellent work of dr denis mukwege, who is trying to re-create a future for women who have been victims of sexual violence, and we stressed that impunity for this kind of war is unacceptable.
the railway sector can play a major role in further reducing co2 emissions and in creating a more sustainable transport network.
in durban, it is imperative - and i insist - to make progress in implementing the cancun agreements by: setting a deadline by which total global emissions must decline; setting a 2050 ghg emission reduction target and a clear 2050 trajectory that includes global intermediate emission reduction targets, and agreeing on the instruments to be used to achieve those targets.
i have of course supported the resolution on the climate change conference which opens in durban at the end of november.
and we have every reason to remain engaged, as the current economic crisis cannot overshadow the climate challenge and its impact on future generations.
despite the steady rise in greenhouse gas emissions, the time seems to be running out when it comes to binding global targets.
but i am happy to support the complementary approach advocated by the ipcc in its latest report, a catalogue of common sense measures to better protect the most vulnerable - often the poorest - people from the hazards of climate change.
i supported the brezina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013).
but it will not silence the controversy over nuclear energy.
the disagreement between member states on energy choices persists and has even taken on a new dimension with the fukushima disaster of 11 march.
finally, given the need to ensure europe's energy independence while diversifying energy sources, it is essential to reform the euratom treaty and at the same time involve the european parliament in the various aspects of the nuclear issue.
today, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing represents between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year, or at least 15% of global catches, making economically, socially and environmentally sustainable management of global marine resources impossible.
moreover, illegal fishing undermines fisheries management efforts, threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and food security, and causes market distortions, with significant economic and social impacts on society as a whole, including in developing countries.
on energy, the european council will track progress on the implementation of guidelines set in february 2011, in particular as regards energy efficiency, the internal energy market, energy infrastructure development and external energy policy.
structural reforms and differentiated fiscal consolidation efforts must continue to lay the ground for a return to sustainable growth and thus help to improve confidence in the short term.
the european council will, of course, take place in an extremely challenging economic and political environment.
the annual growth survey spells out our view of the policy priorities in the coming 12 months to restore macrofinancial stability and boost sustainable growth.
without swift and determined implementation these priorities will do none of us any good, nor help achieve sustainable and inclusive growth.
i can second what the minister said as regards energy policy, that this is a key element on the agenda.
it is a choice for an ever closer union for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe and thus for the sake of legitimacy and, not least, for the sake of the future of european unification.
the commission has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment.
there is indeed a systemic flaw in the eurozone, and that systemic flaw is that the socioeconomic fabric of the member states is too different to make the eurozone function in a sustainable and healthy way.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion on this subject in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i was keen to strike a balance between the needs of all the parties concerned: consumers, of course, and the environment, but also the usefulness of the industries concerned for the various detergents.
overconsumption of water, or overheating of water, is bad for the environment and for the consumer's wallet.
i regret, however, that the imco committee's views on the ban on greenwashing and the labelling for the sustainable use of detergents were not taken into account.
it would have been useful to raise consumer awareness of the sustainable use of detergents in everyday life, as too many bad habits harmful to the environment persist.
so with or without them, this pollution will continue.
we need a real european leap forward: legislation not on the margins, as is being done here, but on the essentials, for better implementation of the directive on waste water treatment - this is obvious - and against intensive agriculture and the dumping of food waste, the real culprits when it comes to the degradation of european waters.
however, when discharged into lakes and rivers, they promote the growth of algae that kill other aquatic species by depriving them of oxygen (detergent is the third largest source of phosphate discharge into surface waters, after agriculture and waste water, while laundry detergent is the largest source of phosphate in the detergent sector).
from january 2013, phosphorus compounds used in washing machine products will not exceed 0,5 grams per wash. the rules will be extended to dishwashers from 2015. these new rules - and i welcome them - will undoubtedly improve water quality and protect aquatic life, which is under attack from phosphates discharged into waste water.
although i share the environmental objective of banning phosphates (which are powerful cleaning agents but also polluting) in dishwashing detergents by 1 january 2017, i must also point out the pitfalls of this legislation.
so with or without them, this pollution will continue.
we need a european leap forward and legislation not on the margins but on the essentials: for better implementation of the directive on waste water treatment, and against intensive agriculture and the dumping of food waste, the real culprits when it comes to the eutrophication of our waters in europe.
in addition to the fact that this agreement is clearly in breach of international law, an evaluation report by the commission also shows that the agreement is a huge waste of european taxpayers' money and contributes to the destruction of fish stocks.
in environmental terms, almost 40% of the financial contribution from the agreement is allocated to the conservation of fish stocks and the development of the fisheries sector.
the european neighbourhood policy, which has been reshaped, must create a favourable environment for partnerships with third countries in the sometimes dramatic situations affecting them.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
measures to be taken, ranging from better control of oil drilling installations to new legislation on environmental liability.
i think that we have taken a good position with the committee on the environment - the rapporteur has taken over a great many of the matters from this committee and i thank him for that - with parliament.
on the one hand, that emsa does indeed provide cost-effective measures to combat oil pollution at sea, including oil drilling installations, that cleanseanet is used in a better way, that satellite navigation is used in a better way.
the european maritime safety agency is one of the agencies that is not well known to the general public but does an excellent job, especially in maritime safety and the reduction of maritime pollution, including oil pollution from seagoing vessels.
but also in the field of safety - as has been mentioned on several occasions - additional tasks should be entrusted to the agency, such as the monitoring and management of pollution from oil installations.
the experience of the deepwater horizon in the gulf of mexico shows the enormous potential negative consequences of such pollution.
the emphasis is on the economic, environmental and safety aspects, where energy and co2 are of course still the main issues.
but it is important to me that this efficiency includes the aspects of economic efficiency as well as the aspects of environmental friendliness, safety and also the correct working conditions.
we are going to set it at minus 20 per cent for the next ten years compared with 1990. we can do this, among other things, through an energy mix, not just e-mobility, we want an energy mix.
we also want - and i am thinking here particularly of road transport - not the cheapest transport of tomorrow at the expense of health and the environment, but we want the right prices under the right conditions, as far as the environment and the people who work there are concerned.
secondly, we need to make the transport sector more efficient and sustainable, otherwise we will be driving ourselves completely blind and that will have a very high cost to our economy and the environment.
this will involve a mix of measures on price incentives and a better energy mix, proper investment to find sustainable alternatives and the introduction of new technologies.
this white paper, commissioner, is an extraordinary opportunity to try to do similar things in the field of transport, because i really believe that energy efficiency - the way to create innovation, the way to develop other modes of transport - has paid off in the field of energy.
we must address the issue of congestion and we must address the issue of co2 emissions and also fuel dependency.
we have just heard it: for some people the eco-liner is the product that can improve capacity tomorrow, and for others it is a monster truck because it is harmful to the environment.
we also want to measure what we have said here over the next few years, year by year, both in the environmental areas and in the modal distribution.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the extension of the crisis criterion to the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2015. in this respect, i welcome the commission's proposal to make the tool sustainable and to make it more flexible.
if we want to achieve energy independence, we must make a firm choice to put everything on renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2050. there are no more important objectives than those two.
the commissioner always says 'the low-hanging fruit of energy efficiency', because that is what we need those budgets for.
i have some doubts, however, about the quantified targets put forward: reducing co2 and other pollutant emissions in all transport, why 20% for road transport and 30% for sea transport?
to this end, i believe it is important to stress the need to re-evaluate the strategy and to focus on the key challenges of respect for human rights, the rule of law, water scarcity, energy supply and regional security.