though i recognise the need for member states to be able to set up prior authorisation to maintain the sustainability of their health systems, i regret that they – including the belgian presidency – have sometimes put organisational considerations above patients’ interests and needs.
mr president, i too regret that we are joining one debate to another one: it is like having a joint debate on shipping and fishing because both of them happen in the marine environment.
the current medical and social burden of this disease represents a serious threat to the sustainability of our healthcare and social systems.
what we need to do is, within the framework of the policy that we already have towards belarus, try to make the necessary adjustments so that we redirect it to be in favor of the citizens, in support of the media, in support of civil society, in support of the opposition, so that we can create an environment in which fair and democratic elections become possible.
parliament has identified the appropriate fields in which the strategy should be developed, like governance, security and energy, transport, environment, trade, local economic development and social and human development.
accordingly, we need to ensure that all future eu strategies should be adapted to their own sectoral characteristics, economic and social development, environment and energy, infrastructure and natural resources.
special attention should be paid to areas of common interest, such as the environment, energy, transport, infrastructure, which are crucial for the sustainable development of the region.
its geopolitical and economic importance for the eu is constantly increasing in terms of security, stability and energy.
in recent years there has been an increase in accidents involving loss of human life and environmental damage in the black sea.
i believe that with joint and coordinated efforts we could achieve, if nothing else, at least a more politically adequate environment to allow for the holding of fair and democratic parliamentary elections elections to be held within the next year.
they need to lay down clear, sound and sustainable foundations for a better future.
− madam president, i would also like first to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr florenz, and his team, the shadows and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for their hard work.
i am pleased to see that many amendments fully support the objectives of the commission’s proposals on the directive on waste electronic and electrical equipment, namely: to fully reap the environmental benefits of the weee directive by setting ambitious collection and recovery targets that are realistic for all the member states; to strengthen implementation and enforcement by establishing detailed rules to fight illegal exports of eu waste; and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens significantly for european producers through reinforced cooperation among national authorities.
we are talking about the fastest growing waste stream in europe, and one with huge potential for reducing our dependence on imported or virgin raw materials.
it is ambitious in order to benefit our environment and increase the resource efficiency of our economy, and it is achievable for each member state, which is also important.
however, we are aware of the increasing number of concerns relating to the potential environmental impact of solar panels, particularly in their waste phase.
we clearly need to assess properly the environmental risks and opportunities of the disposal of solar panels before considering their inclusion in the scope of the weee directive.
this cost can be significantly reduced by the improved text of the european waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which we adopted by a large majority in the environment committee in the summer.
the compromise text that will be put to your vote today represents a major step forward for the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment in europe.
moreover, through the new, more ambitious and specific target and improved mechanism for waste collection with clearly emphasised responsibility, europe can also solve its important, i would say strategic problem, because much of the electronic and electrical waste in europe contains precious metals such as gold, platinum, palladium, copper, nickel and others, which can be extracted for reuse many times over.
as an example, in 2006 the countries of the european union dumped nearly 307 million tonnes of recyclable waste and equipment, according to eurostat.
the report is a major step forward not only in terms of the increased collection target, but also in terms of better environmental protection.
projects for the construction of common tourist routes, for the development of transport, the environment and contacts between universities can be visible and give shape to the danube strategy.
in its initial report, the committee on the environment stated that the measures put in place should respond to three guiding principles: proportionality, cost-effectiveness and independence.
i voted for this report because i believe that the development of adequate and sustainable european pension systems is very important, especially when we consider the demographic processes that are taking place in europe and that we have a continent that will continue to have an increasingly ageing population and more and more people to be supported by less and less.
the european investment bank will have to devise development and environment impact parameters and report on their completion.
it will indirectly contribute to the eradication of poverty and to climate change mitigation in the developing countries, and stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of local communities.
an additional sum of eur 2 billion will be released for use in environment-related projects.
this should contribute to the efforts of the european union partner countries to finance efforts to implement climate-related policies.
let us hope that this new instrument will create incentives for the potential recipient countries to commit more to the climate-related goals of the european union.
we ask the european investment bank to develop a stronger capacity for assessing and reporting on development, environment, and the human rights aspects of their projects.
at the same time, this is not in contradiction with the possibility of reporting and assessing the development and the climate impact of european investment bank projects.
i expect a partnership on all common issues of common interest, especially cooperation in nato and in energy infrastructure.
this situation is neither acceptable nor sustainable and therefore the commission is working on an eu framework for national roma integration strategies which it will present in early april.
first, to ensure sustainable long-term supplies of key raw materials for the development of europe's high-tech sectors.
third, the transition to a low-carbon economy is key.
i supported this proposal because it will facilitate air transport, but mainly because it provides for the phasing-in of air transport rights and investment opportunities, as well as large-scale cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
as icts are global, interconnected and dependent on other infrastructure, their security and sustainability cannot be ensured by purely national and uncoordinated approaches.
on the other hand, the tragedy in japan, in particular the fukushima incident and the subsequent state of emergency, has put the question of the need for nuclear energy and its consequences back on the agenda.
at the same time, i am convinced that we should not exaggerate what happened and emotionally withdraw from nuclear energy.
i believe that europe needs nuclear energy and that we should approach this matter pragmatically rather than rushing to close down power stations.
− the common agricultural policy aims at high-quality and sustainable rural development.
− i share the view that the completion of the single market is a necessary condition for the european union to reach its full potential in terms of competitiveness, smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, and the creation of more and better jobs.
in the coming months, the european parliament will be dealing with a number of legislative texts that will define the future of energy, and in particular nuclear energy, in europe.
i support the development of new technologies, and in particular renewable energy.
i think it's a waste.
however, it is essential that the country shows further results as soon as possible in areas such as dialogue between political actors, reform of the judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption, freedom of expression and improvement of the business environment.
i take note of your requests for further funding in the areas of unemployment, transport and the environment, to add to our ongoing efforts.
this is not sustainable, as was made clear by the courage shown by tunisian and egyptian women during the recent events in their countries.
ministers (including those from algeria, jordan, lebanon, morocco, occupied palestinian territory, syria and tunisia) agreed to embrace a holistic approach based on the following interlinked priorities: first, women’s political and civil rights; second, women’s social and economic rights and sustainable development; and finally, women’s rights in the cultural sphere and the role of communications and the mass media.
i think this point is much more important for europe than climate change and the bank should focus its efforts on that rather than on the development of green technologies.
mr president, we have set out a number of conditions and requirements for sustainable and responsible fishing in the new common fisheries policy.
we share similar challenges: the rise of china, the global financial crisis, decreasing demographics and the need to access raw materials and energy sources and to achieve price stability.
this leads me to believe that the european environment agency is not functioning properly and that its funding should be stopped.
the trade preferences are of great importance to pakistan because they will contribute to the sustainable development of a country that has recently suffered several natural disasters.
– mr president, while the question of pursuing our energy strategy, with or without nuclear power, is now being debated in the member states concerned, we should keep in mind that, whichever decision is taken, nuclear safety will remain a long-standing issue for several generations.
twenty-five years after events in chernobyl, we still need further assessment and research on past and current impacts of contamination of human health and the environment.
we should also address the issue of nuclear waste.
what has remained from chernobyl is waste and this is a serious and threatening issue in the region.
it is also becoming a european challenge for the future of nuclear energy.
in this way, the eu will contribute to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, among other things.
their education, training, qualifications and labour market integration are at the heart of achieving the europe 2020 goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− ladies and gentlemen, i support the resolution on the renewal of the protocol to the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, because the agreement is based on the principle of surplus, which is compatible with the european strategy for sustainable fisheries.
i am referring to the lack of natural presence of energy sources on european soil, which is definitely an obstacle to development and innovation.
but in spite of this, the eu has the most ambitious and the most binding regulations in terms of environmental protection.
in my opinion you could not become the most sustainable knowledge-based economy in the world without having respect for the values which characterise european society.
and can the commission guarantee that the final agreement will include a chapter on sustainable development in line with parliament's requirements?
and will this chapter cover labour standards, obligations related to the multilateral environmental agreement, and an effective mechanism for their implementation?
overall, the european navigation system (ten times more accurate than gps) will make a significant contribution to road safety and environmental objectives and will facilitate road traffic through the possibility of charging tolls.
the sustainability and stability of the north and the south are paramount.
it is not possible to achieve breakthroughs in science, energy, transport, economic governance or digital technologies without common european policies.
these reserves cannot be found, for example in cohesion policy all policies or objectives related to energy efficiency, transport, etc.
- ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the rosbach report because it clearly defines gdp as an indicator of economic activity in the market and production in the country, rather than measuring environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress.
i therefore support the next multiannual financial framework, which will help convince european citizens that the union has the capacity to think and act in their long-term interests and to deliver real results in ensuring sustainable growth and internal cohesion.
climate change has brought more and more dangerous consequences.
madam president,first of all,i would like to thank romana cizelj for her excellent report, which i sincerely hope will bring us closer to the adoption of the next nuclear directive on radioactive waste and spent fuel.
i therefore consider it very important to implement the amendment adopted in itre, which allows for the export of spent fuel and radioactive waste to third countries if those countries apply equivalent to our high standards.
in particular, cooperation and joint projects in the treatment of radioactive waste.
let us put aside the moral doubt that the european nuclear industry will take advantage of this opportunity to get rid of the inconvenient waste at the expense of other countries.
mr president, cohesion policy includes improving the business climate, and for this purpose a well-functioning judicial system is essential.
cohesion policy is key to overcoming the disparities between european regions, emerging from the crisis and achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
providing sufficient flexibility for operational programmes to be adapted to the environment as much as possible would also play an important role.
the current government of our country is about to condemn an entire region of our already not very large country to environmental disaster by giving a concession to a canadian company, dundee precious, for gold mining near krumovgrad.
in addition to being awarded at absurdly low prices, the concession lacks important documents, such as an environmental impact assessment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication of november 2010 on 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond' addresses the main challenges facing the development of the eu's electricity and gas infrastructure, which will allow the achievement of a single energy market and high security of energy supply.
the need to replace the outdated ten-e instrument with new legislation on energy security and infrastructure, which also provides solutions for the necessary financing, is obvious.
more europe in energy means more european solidarity and benefits for citizens.
those saying that such an approach would create an obstacle to the european internal market are wrong, and they tend to forget that, when it comes to such a controversial and still debated technology, affecting european territories, the landscape, biodiversity and regional specificity, the level of discussion should be left as close as possible to european citizens.
the conservation of our environment and the protection of public health go before freedom of choice for farmers or the free circulation of goods within the internal market.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority rejected the report on the scope for further reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage outside the eu, because perhaps colleagues thought it was not ambitious enough.
however, the same majority adopted in electronic voting the paragraphs that provided for achieving greater emission reductions through energy efficiency gains without changing the current 20-20-20% targets by 2020. i believe that any new higher target today puts european industry at significant risk of losing competitiveness and of moving entire industries outside the eu.
because that would mean higher prices for emissions, greater environmental investment by business, and ultimately, a new intrusion into the diminished post-crisis financial capabilities of the citizens who have to pay the bill in the end.
let's first do everything we can to get a global agreement to reduce emissions, then let's show how ambitious europe can be.
thirdly, there is the question of allocating 30% of agricultural policy expenditure to environmental objectives.
eu competition policy can contribute to this goal, to the extent that article 101 of the treaty allows farmers to develop sustainable and pro-competitive forms of cooperation to become more efficient, innovative, and better equipped to face competition both within and outside the eu.
to do this, i believe one way is to preserve tax competition in the union, because that is how we can ensure an optimal business environment, which will also lead to more investment.
i believe that the opportunity for parliamentarians from the european union and the eastern neighbours to work together in this multilateral environment will contribute to the realization of the simple fact that cooperation is the way to a better life for peoples.
such a role for the union – broadly supported a year ago by this house – would ensure a safer neighbourhood and also provide additional leverage in securing the energy corridors for alternative supply to europe.
this tendency is likely to continue with the eu’s shift to a low-carbon economy, with renewable technologies requiring more raw materials, and especially rare earths, inputs.
the data in the report on the ecological state of the black sea are very worrying: serious environmental problems, damaged ecosystems, altered flora and fauna, endangered species.
− i have supported this report on the situation of women approaching retirement age because i believe it is important in relation to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the exploding prices of raw materials have a direct impact on the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy, on jobs in our countries.
recycling is a strong element of environmental legislation and should be developed in an accelerated way.
it is a step in the right direction, but we must do everything possible to pass this market through regulated markets, through energy exchanges that work everywhere in europe and eventually create a system of a single regulated energy market in europe.
thirdly, additional measures must be taken to remove the monopoly of wholesale energy buyers.
and finally, i would like to point out the need for compensatory deals for energy producers from... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the chatzimarkakis report and the compromise reached with the council on the adoption at first reading of the regulation on the integrity and transparency of the energy market, because it establishes rules for the management of this market at pan-european level and guarantees protection against abuse in energy trade, which is always at the expense of the final consumer.
this regulation is a necessary step towards a single energy market with regulated transparency and sufficiently strong monitoring to protect consumers.
yes, wholesalers will be obliged to disclose their energy transactions and will not be able to use manipulative practices or inside information to extract excess profits, especially through the final prices of energy products and services.
however, national regulators have the primary responsibility and the power to ensure a transparent and competitive energy market.
i call on the commission to develop urgently the necessary provisions on the reporting of information by traders and to set up without delay the eu single energy trader register.
it is high time that only registered market participants enter into wholesale energy transactions.
but there is another dimension, and that is to rebuild a european economy that would be more sustainable.
to that end, commissioner tajani’s initiative of the europe 2020 strategy plays a strong role, which is about industrial policy and assuring that the european economy would be more sustainable while also improving competitiveness.
therefore our primary objective should be the prevention and reduction of risk factors, mainly tobacco, poor diet, alcohol, the lack of physical activity and environmental pollution.
we know that such a strategy could save lives and could also save money, which would also be most beneficial to the sustainability of our national systems that are currently under pressure.
it is therefore essential that we provide people with a healthy environment and opportunities, that we inform them about healthy habits and that we enable them to take healthy choices.
let me conclude with another very simple fact that is reflected in parliament’s text: food, tobacco, alcohol, lifestyle and the environment matter to our health.
to combat ncds effectively, we need parliament and all the institutions to agree on this simple fact, not only today but also when we debate and vote on our future food, environment and consumer policies.
the green paper published by the european commission, which sets out a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding, is an important step towards achieving the goals of sustainable, rational and inclusive growth.
paying particular attention to climate change and developing a greener economy will surely be a way to reduce considerably both man-made and natural disasters.
i would like to see more ambition from the commission in terms of growth but also the integration of our principles of development, human rights and the environment into trade policies.
unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed severe disasters, both natural and man-made, which have resulted in serious human casualties and social, economic and environmental damage.
taking measures to increase the competitiveness of the sector worldwide and to ensure sustainable growth in tourism are tasks facing the member states and the eu, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
regional cooperation is crucial in this regard, particularly the development of the transport and energy corridors, which is not only indispensable for eu security but also an important element of the partners’ economic integration with the eu.
i support the adequate regulation and supervision of financial markets, minimum requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks and the establishment of a reliable and permanent crisis resolution mechanism, believing that this would contribute to improving policies for sustainable growth and jobs, to promoting eu competitiveness and international trade.
if tomorrow we decide to ban nuclear power and close all nuclear power plants in europe and ban the construction of new ones, where will the energy come from that we will lose from nuclear power plants?
what do you propose to replace that energy with?
we therefore need to simplify the current rules and reduce the administrative burden in order to provide a better tax environment for businesses in the eu.
i also share the view that the lowest price should not be the determining factor in the choice of supplier, so that other criteria such as economic, social and environmental benefits can also be taken into account and the life-cycle costs of the goods and services concerned taken into account.
furthermore i stress the importance of working towards job creation in sustainable fields.
the current economic situation should not stop the eu from meeting its current goals and striving towards sustainable growth.
i have supported this resolution because i believe that ensuring the health and safety of european citizens, promoting sustainable consumption and increasing the choice and quality of products and services are important for all of us.
i find that empowering consumers is a key step to achieving smarter and more sustainable policies.
the death of bees has negative consequences for biodiversity, agriculture, rural development... it is time to take measures - measures to protect bee health, measures to stimulate and support beekeepers.
let's get young people into the beekeeping sector and last but not least, let's reward beekeepers for their contribution to biodiversity conservation and agricultural productivity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu has set itself the goal of being a leader in the fight against climate change and it is delivering on that commitment.
at the same time, we cannot tackle climate challenges alone.
recent projections suggest that if current emissions levels are maintained and no action is taken, the threshold for limiting warming to 2 ̊c will be exceeded within this decade.
isn't it time we thought about a plan b for the union, new ways to attract those who will be accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in the coming years?
the new industrial tigers are already emitting such levels that they will soon surpass our historical cumulative emissions.
we place great hopes in the development of technology, and in particular the internet, to rebuild the european economy, and at the same time we must not forget that the internet is already an environment that guarantees both the rights and freedoms of european citizens.
i would also like, as he did, to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on industry, research and energy who contributed, and also those of the committee on budgets who delivered its opinion.
i wish to underline that the report on the framework programme, and the other reports, recognise the importance of research funded under the euratom treaty for vital objectives such as enhancing the safety of nuclear energy and improving the management of nuclear waste.
each member state, as mr březina rightly said, is free to determine its own energy supply mix, and some of the largest eu countries do use nuclear energy, but some of the consequences of those choices do not stop at one’s own borders.
as the rapporteur correctly underlined, this proposal is coherent with the overall political strategy of the european union, as expressed in particular through the europe 2020 and the energy 2020 strategies, the set-plan and the european sustainable nuclear industrial initiative.
the aim is to work towards a more sustainable energy mix for the future, and this programme contributes to that effort.
beyond that, the commission agrees that most of the areas listed in your reports are of major importance, such as radiation protection – a research area that is also important beyond the energy sector, in particular in the field of medicine.
this report also supports funding for research activities in the field of fusion energy, including the iter project.
fusion is a promising research field that aims to provide a totally new energy source for the future.
thirdly, we have already started concrete research projects of key importance for europe that will contribute to resource efficiency and to meeting short and long-term energy and environmental objectives, which we have not given up on.
it's important that we don't cut off its funding, because we're aiming to find one of the possible future energy sources -- one that's both safe, sustainable, low-carbon, environmentally friendly.
we need to think about social progress and the debt crisis, but we also need to take a clear account of the contribution of nuclear energy to the competitiveness of the european economy, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and the security of energy supply.
finally, let me say a word about the resolution that we will be voting on today and which has been broadly supported by all groups within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
but this is one of the big and promising scientific projects that could lead to a breakthrough in science and in particular in energy, which the european union has already committed itself to.
both sides are interested in the stability, sustainable economic development and social progress of these countries.
the positive effect of this can be seen in several aspects: environmental benefits by ensuring that all fruit is harvested, thus avoiding the destruction of the product unsuitable for direct sale or leaving it unharvested in rural areas, which causes the spread of pests; benefits from a socioeconomic point of view, because it generates added value for the creation of jobs and incomes for producers.
the environment and public health committee of the european parliament expressed its concern by supporting the inclusion of laundry detergents in the scope of the regulation.
in this context, i am convinced that the european union must once again show strong will and global leadership, setting ever higher standards for environmental protection, but also fostering innovation and research.
i believe that the transport sector has a strong potential to support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in areas such as sustainable economic growth, innovation and energy.
climate change, the shift of transport towards alternative and renewable energy sources and safe and accessible infrastructure for people with disabilities are just some of the challenges facing the sector for which complex solutions should be proposed.