as you might be aware, there are some outstanding issues, namely the questions of energy and trade.
energy represents the core of libya’s economy – indeed 70% of libya’s gdp.
i would also like to stress that we are following closely negotiation between libya and the unhcr in the hope that a satisfactory solution will be found to ensure that the unhcr is able to discharge its mandate fully and in a legally secure environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the community's energy policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i shall avoid referring to mr van orden's arguments, firstly because it would be a waste of my time, and secondly because it equates, not for the first time, the perpetrator with the victim in cyprus.
universal access to sustainable public services of high quality is a key policy issue.
we therefore remain firmly committed to supporting the inclusive and sustainable development of all ldcs, which represent the poorest and weakest segment of the international community and which are also characterised by their acute susceptibility to external economic shocks, natural and man-made disasters and communicable diseases.
in particular, the european union considers that the outcome of the istanbul conference should address three main objectives: firstly, combating the vulnerability and fragility of ldcs and further enhancing their resilience to shocks; secondly, creating a favourable environment for the sustainable development of ldcs; thirdly, promoting inclusive and sustainable economic growth for ldcs.
− mr president, the commission is committed to the success of the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries in istanbul, creating a renewed political momentum for inclusive growth, sustainable development and poverty reduction in the least developed countries.
sustainable development and long-term equitable and inclusive growth are essential for each of these countries.
if to this unfavourable internal environment is added the unresolved name issue, it is clear that the country's european perspective is being seriously tested.
at the same time, environmental innovation programmes should be encouraged to address gaps in the fight against climate change and to promote environmentally friendly solutions.
mr president, as shadow rapporteur i welcome the hirsch report because it stresses the importance of continuous capacity for learning and work, mobility and flexibility in the modern and demanding international working environment.
− madam president, the global economic recession changed the economic landscape in the eu dramatically: it increased unemployment, reduced economic growth and impaired the business environment.
but above all, mankind must show the utmost respect for the planetary balance and the possibility that the cultivation of such organisms could alter biodiversity and suddenly destroy what we know as the earth.
while we agree with the commission's proposal to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, we are opposed to the free trade of gm seeds, as this does not eliminate the risks to human health or the environment.
− eu member states should have the flexibility to ban or restrict the cultivation of genetically modified crops and should be able to cite environmental motives for doing so.
the commission had proposed to grant eu member states the right to ban crops on all but health or environmental grounds, which were to be solely assessed by the european food safety authority.
however, the parliament, committed to ensuring a firmer legal basis in the context of international trade rules, insisted that member states should not be prevented from stating additional environmental grounds.
these could include pesticide resistance, biodiversity preservation or a lack of data on potential negative consequences on the environment, as well as socioeconomic impacts in cases where contamination risks to conventional or organic agriculture cannot practicably be managed.
it is not to be expected that cyprus can open the energy chapter to such behaviour from a country which is in flagrant violation of international law and the law of the sea.
offshore sources are the fourth largest production area in the world and are vital to meeting europe's energy needs and our energy security.
this is why offshore oil or gas drilling in the eu should only be allowed if the company concerned submits a contingency plan in advance and demonstrates that it has sufficient funds to repair potential damage to the environment.
i call on the european parliament, the european union and especially mrs ashton and mr füle to put an end to the policy of equal distances and, more specifically: - first, not to open any chapter, and especially the energy chapter; - secondly, to warn turkey that any continuation of threats will mean the immediate end of its accession process; - thirdly, i ask mrs oomen-ruijten to record in her annual report on the evaluation of turkey that if these threats continue, its accession process will be terminated.
the main objectives of the draft report as set out in the proposed preliminary draft were to highlight the problems faced by citizen-consumers, to reduce to the point of elimination the disparities between consumers and between consumers' relations with companies, to ensure consumer rights in general and with particular emphasis on e-commerce, to ensure the effectiveness of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, to increase product safety and a high level of consumer protection, to focus on vulnerable groups of the population with a view to a better social europe, to improve consumer access to social welfare services, to reduce ecology and sustainability, to reduce the exposure of consumers to harmful substances in food, such as fats and oils in processed foods, to protect children from the dangers of food waste, and to protect children from the dangers of food waste in the food industry.
however, the draft as voted did not satisfy certain aspects of parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's position on the directive is not distorted, because, while it was a report on the strategy for consumer protection policies, it was voted without reference to the objective of a more social europe and, at the same time, almost all references to dangerous carcinogenic chemicals were deleted, as was the position on the ban on direct television advertising aimed at children under 12. following this development, and after consulting all the political groups, we opened a new round of discussions which finally led to a commitment by all to support the compromise text proposed for vote tomorrow which highlights the problems facing consumers as the economic crisis makes them more vulnerable, seeks greater product safety, stresses the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, calls for a high level of consumer and environmental protection, but expresses concern about the widespread advertising to which children are exposed and suggests ways of combating food spoilage.
europe must have an effective single market, adapt its economy to the social needs of the market, but also strengthen solidarity, enable individual and collective achievements to be realised, and contribute to sustainable development.