this will be further evidence of the improvement of the legal environment in the european union in a direction which supports the single market.
the sustained increase in the number and scale of humanitarian disasters in third countries, which is also a consequence of climate change, requires quantitative as well as qualitative improvements in humanitarian aid.
strict attention should be paid to the highest standards of food and agricultural production, food safety and quality, and environmental sustainability.
i would also like to support measures to motivate farmers to become more energy efficient, as energy costs are a key factor in the rate of profitability of agricultural activity.
agriculture is faced with increasing production on the one hand, and high energy prices, dwindling uncontaminated land and the effects of climate change on the other.
the cap should improve food security by increasing productivity and supporting environmentally sustainable food production as well as traditional farming, smallholder farming, organic farming and local and regional food distribution.
in order to enable the common agricultural policy to combat the effects of climate change, to keep food prices at an acceptable level and to increase the supply of safe staple foods, it is essential that its budget be kept at a minimum current level.
for example, the environmental impact assessment of food production and transport distances is easy for consumers to understand.
the current waste of up to 50% along the production chain or the disproportionate growth of freight transport are not factors compatible with ensuring food security.
it is impossible to pretend to be concerned about food security or environmental protection while tolerating dependence on imports of products grown on another continent and imported thousands of kilometres away.
such practices create a huge ecological footprint and at the same time force developing countries to import almost all the food they need, making them dependent, destroying their economies, impoverishing their populations, and destroying their environments.
i would like to emphasise that we have common tasks that can be solved fairly quickly, such as the refugee problems in serbia - serbia has about 750 000 refugees on its territory - environmental problems, some of which are inherited from the 1990s, such as the opening of the danube shipping route, for example, we have an intergroup in the european parliament dedicated to the danube, and we could also focus on helping serbia with a bold judicial reform and the fight against organised crime.
- i support this new approach, where the aim of the legislation is not to define the safety of products, but to create a transparent environment in which reliable information on the properties of products is provided.
first of all, it's an energy issue, we've talked about oil, gas, but in the future, it's going to be methane, because the reserves that are in the permafrost, in terms of energy-efficient methane, are about 300 years.
the third thing is, of course, the environment, because the use of energy resources and the increased transportation will bring a number of environmental risks to the area.
finally, if in the spring of this year eur 1.5 million from the pilot programme for environment and regional development was diverted to a banana project in the acp countries, i have to ask on what basis the commission reached this decision.
this should be closely linked to the european neighbourhood policy, to which the czech eu presidency made a significant contribution in the first half of 2009. the security of energy supply to the eu and the related support for energy projects of eu interest aiming at diversifying gas supplies to the eu should be a key priority of the eu black sea strategy.
the establishment of a euronest parliamentary assembly is also important and urgent for the security of energy supply to the eu.
the commission should not hesitate to conclude agreements with potential nabucco supplier countries by the end of 2011. the energy infrastructure package, which the commission intends to present in the near future, should place a strong emphasis on the aforementioned energy projects in the black sea region.
lastly, the considerable potential of renewable energy sources in the black sea region, which can make a significant contribution to securing the energy future of the eu and the world, should be highlighted.
(the sitting closed at 17.00)
energy security is an area where the european union should be involved and where it should proceed in the most uniform and coordinated way possible, unlike many other european initiatives, and that is why we, as the group of european conservatives and reformists, support the creation of a common energy market, as this strengthens the position of the member states vis-à-vis the main suppliers and also prevents the abuse of the dominant position of some suppliers of strategic raw materials for foreign political games.
but we also say that even in energy integration, national specificities, i.e.
national energy mix, including the use of nuclear energy, must be respected.
i expect the energy summit to be a comprehensive, but also sensible and responsible approach to the interests of citizens.
according to the latest eurostat surveys, energy price stability is one of the main priorities for a large proportion of the union population.
the rampant entry of entrepreneurs, including foreigners, and their quest for fabulous profits is turning the public against renewable energy as such, as people face unnecessarily high electricity price increases.
granted, it is not easy to provide sufficient energy at affordable prices, but we can at least get close to that goal.
the way forward, i believe, is to seek a balanced energy mix from renewables to nuclear energy, while breaking down the extremes on both sides.
the collection of electrical and electronic waste is a very topical issue nowadays.
i believe that some of the amendments which will be voted on in the first reading very unfortunately combine the commission's proposals which facilitate the collection, sorting and subsequent recycling of waste with others.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing source of waste.
they present a realistically higher risk to the environment and public health than spent nuclear fuel.
a large amount of e-waste is either not treated in accordance with its wording and ends up in landfills, or is illegally exported outside the eu.
it is alarming that we have no idea what happens to more than half of europe's electrical and electronic waste.
this situation is unsustainable because if collection and recycling targets are not set and respected, the current production of 4 kg of waste per person per year could rise to 24 kg by 2020. recycling e-waste can put more gold back into the production process than is mined in the eu, and the same is true for other rare earths.
in the context of the rohs exemption for cadmium telluride panels, this represents a further increase in the risk of highly toxic cadmium pollution, which is being combated in other eu legislative measures.
it is important to maintain the appropriate nutritional value of this food and its initial production stage using ecological elements.
- i voted for the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which deals with a very topical issue.
on the one hand, improper handling of these facilities would inevitably have environmental and health consequences.
according to available data, 85% of e-waste is currently recycled, but only 33% of this is officially registered and managed in accordance with the provisions of the eu directive.
i cannot fully agree with the envi opinion that the costs of collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of waste from electronic equipment should be covered under the 'polluter pays' principle.
on the contrary, i am of the opinion that producers, retailers and consumers should not pay for the collection and transport of waste from the door to the collection point, but that this responsibility should, as it is now, primarily lie with the municipalities.
we will certainly agree that the main objective should be to ensure sustainable development, jobs and prosperity in the danube.
the next item is the report by martin callanan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the community’s integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles (com(2009)0593 – c7-0271/2009 – 2009/0173(cod)) (a7-0287/2010).
- mr president, it is true that transport is one of the sectors where it is desirable to reduce emissions.
in this respect, i consider the achieved value of 147 g co2/km for the average emissions of new light commercial vehicles to be quite ambitious and i am very curious about the feasibility study that the commission is to carry out on the basis of the updated results.
this regulation we are discussing is a follow-up to the climate change policy as we know it from the european parliament, and there is no room for too much polemic with this policy and the whole concept.
− while it is understandable that the proposal is largely based on legislation on co2 emissions from passenger cars, it is also important to take into account that these sectors do not operate in the same way.
light commercial vehicles have a longer development and production cycle and are used predominantly for commercial purposes and, unlike passenger cars, have fewer options for modifying their shape and weight, which would reduce emissions.
i have reservations about the proposal that the penalties for manufacturers not reducing co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles should be higher than the penalties for not reducing emissions in the passenger car sector.
ten years of work on the green paper, wrongly titled 'towards adequate, sustainable and reliable pension systems in europe', has produced a completely anti-social collection of nonsense.
these factors are currently being exacerbated by extremes in weather likely to be caused by climate change.
the debate on the origins of climate change is futile in this case, because the risks are real and questioning them is an unacceptable gamble.
in the short term, we can reduce food waste, reduce our dependence on imports, reduce or stabilise consumption and set up regulatory mechanisms in the market to prevent speculation.
the proposal also contains several new elements, such as the activation of an additional mandate of eur 2 billion to combat climate change, fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the introduction of new horizontal targets and the extension of the range of countries for eib lending.
the danube strategy focuses on three priority areas: connectivity and communication (including transport, energy, information society); environmental protection and prevention of natural hazards; strengthening the potential for socio-economic development.
mechanical interventions in the riverbed, according to critics, will endanger the vegetation on its banks and the overall deterioration of the surrounding environment.
the priority of these supported programmes was to extend regional development strategies to the transnational level, to promote transport systems and better access to the information society, to promote environmental and natural resources protection and to promote the economic integration of peripheral regions in particular.
in the case of protein crops, their cultivation brings a number of economic, ecological and agronomic benefits.
reducing meat consumption in favour of plant-based protein in the diet has positive effects on the environment and human health.
the low level of domestic production of protein crops, in turn, limits research, seed production and knowledge of sustainable technologies, in particular as regards the inclusion of husks in sowing practices and the adequate use of grassland.
a monitoring mechanism for the origin of imported protein crops focusing on the sustainability of the farming practices used by the countries of origin should be established.
in the context of climate change, soil fertility, water protection and biodiversity, the production and targeted support of protein crops should be increased in the european union.
the question is how sustainable these values are in the context of the call for global competitiveness based on lower labour costs, relaxation of labour laws, reduced social protection for workers and a weakened role for the state.
i also do not share the idea of a pan-european carbon tax, which would disproportionately burden the energy sector in particular and ultimately reduce the eu's energy security.
we are all aware of these arguments, but on the other hand we are often tempted to endorse commitments, whether in the form of extreme environmental demands or mandatory fiscal obligations to ensure financial stability.
it is certainly important to assess the environmental impact of industrial production rigorously, but we must not burden industry indirectly with some excessive regulations.
however, many of the objections to montenegro have been passed from one annual report to another, culminating in the ec's statement: politicization of the state administration, independence of the judiciary, organised crime and the environment are already among the 'evergreens'.
the development of european industry requires ambitious funding, particularly in the fields of research and energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure (tens), i.e.
public services that create a business environment.
the need to mitigate climate change and conserve biodiversity to the greatest extent possible is driving industry to produce with zero co2 emissions and to use resources efficiently.
european industry should continue to maintain its strategic position in key sectors and exploit the opportunities of sustainable recovery to ensure the maximum possible employment for skilled workers.
i agree and support the creation of an innovation chain, the increase of resource efficiency, the more efficient use of public procurement, especially for smes, the further expansion of clean energy production and the overall integration of smes into the european industrial concept.
the report also supports the introduction of instruments to reduce macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area and measures to promote environmental recovery.
there is no alternative to nuclear power, which provides us with the much-needed, affordable, carbon-free energy.
unlike countries where, with the situation in japan, nuclear energy is unethical, it is a card in the election campaign.
the multinational oil companies see environmental protection only as a cost item to be reduced.
their ruthlessness will not stop even before the actual genocide of the local population, which is vitally dependent on the surrounding environment.
under current economic and political conditions, resources will simply be extracted and the expected environmental damage will be done.
the yields are too attractive, the energy demand is too great.
promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development and their public funding, meeting climate change and energy objectives, raising education levels and promoting social inclusion and, above all, reducing poverty in europe.
the decommissioning of old and unsafe nuclear power plants in europe is essential for the sustainable life and health of european citizens.
mr president, if we are to revive the european economy and improve competitiveness in the global environment, our vital objective must be to finally remove, after 20 years, all the obstacles which prevent, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises from developing their businesses.
calling for politicians to automatically extend this regulation is more of a political populist gesture than a rationally justified move reflecting the changes in the telecommunications field that have taken place in the eu since 2007. the proposal to launch a european television competition 'european crossborder enterprise of the year' is only a waste of european funds in my view.
first, the energy sector should be under state control, and reliable backup sources should be at a sufficient distance from each power plant.
secondly, we should do everything we can to support the environment and say no to the green fear mongers who have been blackmailing europe for a long time.
the lesson of the fukushima 1 nuclear accident is also that it is dangerous to put energy entirely in private hands.
as a result of the irresponsibility of private companies, japan will have to deal with radiation pollution of its land, sea and food chain for decades.
nuclear energy should always be under national and international control.
although there is a legal framework in europe that initiates continuous improvement of technologies, large-scale investments in research and training will be needed to guarantee the highest possible level of safety and health and environmental protection at the level of the latest scientific and technical knowledge.
large investments will also be needed in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, which are currently stored under more or less provisional conditions.
the lessons of this disaster must be directed towards ensuring safety, not the elimination of the only truly sustainable, climate-neutral energy source we have available.
all the multilateral initiatives linked to the eastern partnership, democracy, stability, economic integration, energy security and people-to-people contacts are undoubtedly beneficial both for the european union and for the six neighbouring countries.
i find it a shame that the ep is unable to offer the public its views on nuclear energy.
the greens and socialists were clearly not content with their proposals to phase out nuclear energy or to close nuclear power plants built before 1980 being rejected.
the european forestry sector is in a challenging and risky situation, with further losses due to climate change to be expected.
there is no question of conservation or sustainable forest management.
it is a further step towards sustainable forestry in europe and stopping deforestation in some member states.
for example, in the case of the two largest european union projects, the global navigation satellite systems and the european joint undertaking for nuclear fusion energy, iter, i find it intolerable that such important projects should be 'digging' into the shortcomings that every capable manager must be able to address.
i believe that the transparency register will also contribute to the credibility of the political environment.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on nuclear safety 25 years after the chernobyl disaster by bogusław sonik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000109/2011 – b7-0312/2011).
mr president, the exponential growth in the volume of waste generated and consumed in europe seems to be a ticking time bomb, both in the european union and in developing countries, where large quantities of hazardous waste are being illegally exported.
as a member of the acp presidency, i believe that there should also be a need to develop a common strategy with the acp countries to combat the illegal import of toxic waste into their territories and, in particular, action plans to establish a safe waste management system in african countries, including the promotion of recycling technologies.
although a number of factors, both genetic and environmental, enter and contribute to a child's development, the influence of parents and the immediate environment is the most important factor in shaping a child's personality.
the payment should limit the exceptions as much as possible and should cover the so-called external costs of road transport: noise and, above all, emissions.
mr president, in the directive under discussion, the commission has proposed the possibility of charging external costs such as air pollution, noise, congestion, based on the desire to internalize external costs according to the 'polluter pays' principle.
i support this principle because i consider it important in terms of environmental and human health impacts and the use of multiple modes of transport at national, regional and local levels.
the field of safety, environment and smoother road transport also represents a significant potential for egnos and gnss, as they can be used for toll collection.
the principle of charging for certain external costs of transport, such as environmental pollution, noise and congestion.
i consider the worst of the objectives to be the fight against climate change, and i see a major problem with the instruments in terms of so-called own resources and the possibility of issuing bonds.
i also see the focus on employment and decent working conditions as a key element of sustainable development not only in eu countries.
however, in our mutual assessment we should not only consider the financial impact, but we must also focus on other aspects such as economic, environmental, social aspects.
madam president, commissioner, the move away from nuclear energy, as we can see in germany, for example, is a politically incorrect decision with potentially disastrous economic consequences not only for germany itself but also, and least of all, for the central european area.
i am not criticizing the german decision, but i would like to point out that each member state of the european union has the right to determine its own energy policy with all its economic, social and political implications.
one third of the czech energy mix is energy obtained from reliable nuclear sources.
secondly, i would say that for this whole approach to citizen safety to be credible, stress tests should be installed in all areas where energy is produced.
now, however, a number of politicians, particularly from the greens and the left, want to turn farmers into biofuel producers and global warming fighters.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i believe that the directive will set the legal framework of the european union for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and will be an integral part of the legislation ensuring the safe use of nuclear energy in those member states which retain it in their energy mix.
i have personally visited some radioactive waste storage facilities and i am convinced that the lack of funding could be a direct cause of a reduction in their safety, and this must be prevented in europe.
after much discussion, a rational approach to radioactive waste management was maintained.
in my view, it is unwise to pursue the absolute conservation of nuclear waste in a permanent repository.
probably all eu citizens will applaud the bold plans for 80 and 95% reduction of emissions by 2050. but this general plan, when examined more closely, must be supported by the very real possibilities of present energy sources.
in the wake of the hysteria that erupted after the earthquake in japan and the problems with the reactors at the fukushima nuclear power plant, citizens in some eu countries decided to move away from nuclear energy in a relatively short time.
as is well known, wind does not always blow in northern germany either, and solar cells currently convert only the solar energy that hits them into electricity with an efficiency of about 11%.
the internal market is thus still not unified in terms of the digital environment and the council has thus missed its exceptional opportunity.
cohesion policy instruments must therefore continue to play an important role in bringing these levels closer together towards sustainable and safe european transport.
these objectives promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and, therefore, investment in decent jobs.
the financial instruments used, particularly in the energy sector, are in most cases not speculative but based on a real commercial interest and hedging of risks.
the new rules for otc derivatives in the energy sector should contribute to strengthening stability and transparency in financial markets, but should not increase costs and prices for the end-user.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
the next item is the report by francisco sosa wagner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond (2011/2034(ini)) (a7-0226/2011).
given the lack of unity in europe on gmo cultivation, member states need to share responsibility for how they release gmos into the environment.
the environmental risks and the threat to biodiversity can be high, and the monoculture nature of gm crops is also a danger.
i particularly appreciate the fact that parliament is aware of the importance of preserving the market environment in the field of electronic communications.
the eu should focus on energy infrastructure that is outdated and poorly connected in the coming financial period.
moreover, quality infrastructure is essential to achieve the eu's long-term goals, such as reducing carbon emissions, guaranteeing security of supply and price stability for consumers, and developing a single energy market that ensures access to energy resources at affordable prices for businesses and citizens.
as regards electricity, the commission should make progress in defining and implementing its proposals for priority corridors to link european transport networks by 2020, in particular the proposals on infrastructure and interconnections necessary to integrate the production of electricity from renewable sources.
smart technologies should enable citizens to control their household appliances, thus preventing waste and reducing their individual and collective costs.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 september 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on an effective raw materials strategy for europe (2011/2056(ini)) (a7-0288/2011).
the availability of non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials is a key condition for the transition to a sustainable economy.
an effective waste policy is not just an ecological symbol, but above all a prerequisite for ensuring resource independence.
europe is asleep at this moment and it is necessary to take such measures as soon as possible to ensure that there is enough strategic raw materials for it technologies and equipment, renewable energy and other key sectors.
it is no longer just an environmental problem, it is also about the economic freedom of europe.
mr president, when i was elected to the european parliament more than seven years ago, i thought i knew something about energy and the issues surrounding it, that i was well-versed in it and that i understood it in principle.
because the main idea that i hear all the time, over and over again, is that liberalization is supposed to bring cheaper energy prices to consumers.
and yet, under this central slogan of a more stable, more reliable and cheaper energy supply, we are constantly adopting new and new rules.
in the end, overall globalisation and market liberalisation do not ensure more reliable and cheaper energy.
the document presented is rather technical and complex and i cannot help feeling that it is best oriented and influenced by the major players in the european energy market, namely the large member states.
as is the fact that energy markets are cross-border, certain rules are necessary.
in the itre committee we made a number of amendments to the commission's proposal to focus even more on preventing abuses and manipulation in the wholesale energy market.
for example, because there is no pan-european energy market yet, because it is not interconnected, and because we cannot, or only to a limited extent, react flexibly and effectively to possible crisis situations.
instead of creating a business-friendly environment and encouraging human activity, we're on our way to becoming the world's champions in regulating everything.
third, in the long term, sustainable economic development and the eu's competitiveness will be important.
− i welcome the commission's proposal to prevent abuse of the energy market.
significant players in the carbon markets, in particular power companies, are also participants in wholesale electricity and gas markets.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should be provided with sufficient financial and human resources and should be able to establish liaison offices close to the places where significant transactions are concluded.
in addition, the agency could in future act as a trade repository for energy-related financial transactions.
this would simplify the work of energy traders as they would not have to provide entries in the financial sector trade repository established under the european market infrastructure regulation (emir).
there is also a need to create the conditions for the deployment of technologies for the protection of the european galileo satellite navigation system and other air navigation services, for the development and deployment of intelligent transport systems, scientific research and climate monitoring and earth observation services.
the objective of radio spectrum policy is to create a competitive and sustainable wireless broadband industry.
in the areas of foreign and security policy, energy and trade cooperation, most of the negotiating chapters have already been successfully concluded.
to promote the sustainability and competitiveness of european tourism, it is necessary to work on the education and training of people working in the tourism sector and to invest in innovation and new technologies.
in this context, i consider the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme to be a suitable tool for developing new skills and abilities of young people who should then be able not only to provide for themselves but also to create jobs for others in their environment.
this specific education system allows students to study all subjects in a multicultural and multilingual environment and with qualified teachers, while maintaining their mother tongue.
− i believe that we should first of all build on existing monitoring and prevention tools, such as on-site monitoring facilities and the tools of the european global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) or the inspire and galileo programmes, which can monitor potentially vulnerable areas in order to prepare more effectively for providing assistance to disaster victims.
the system should be designed in such a way as to prevent asymmetric shocks and also to contribute to sustainable growth and job creation, and thus be in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
− i am of the opinion that the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union, as provided for in the treaty, should include respect for the main principles, including stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments.
− the stability and growth pact is based on the objective of sound public finances, which is a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and for strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability, which will contribute to job creation.
i believe that the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular by placing greater emphasis on the level and evolution of debt and overall sustainability.
the commission report under article 126 (3) of the treaty should take due account of the quality of the national fiscal framework, which plays a crucial role in promoting fiscal consolidation and sustainable public finances.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20 summit) in rio de janeiro, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000181/2011 – b7-0436/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20 summit) in rio de janeiro, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000182/2011 – b7-0437/2011).
despite article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which gives member states the right to set the conditions for the use of their energy resources, the right to choose between different energy sources and to determine the basic composition of their energy supply, the green group succeeded in getting point 46 of the draft resolution on the drafting of the eu common position for the negotiations of the united nations conference on sustainable development rio+20 to be included in the second part, which calls for the phasing out of existing nuclear power plants and the halting of the construction of new nuclear power plants.
such a proposal is unacceptable not only for the czech republic, which is and will be heavily dependent on nuclear energy.
other member states are also counting on nuclear power and any restriction would increase dependence on fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions.
if europe is to meet its binding climate change targets, it is necessary to use all available energy sources, including nuclear.
instead, there is an effort to ensure the highest standards of safety and environmental protection by all available means.
the rational discussion in the field of nuclear energy should focus on ensuring maximum safety and on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.
i voted against paragraph 46 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, even with the support of the czech member of parliament, mr miroslav ouzky.
i think it is populist and hypocritical that countries which block nuclear power generation on their territory are dependent on the supply of this very type of energy from neighbouring countries.
however – and this brings me to my second point and one of my concerns – i fear that the strategy of so-called green vat, which would reduce rates for energy-efficient and environmentally friendly products and services, is likely to result in tax fraud.
emphasis on development impact analysis, environmental and social sustainability, eib performance indicators on development, environment and human rights, etc.
static targeting six months ago is fundamentally inconsistent with the current turbulent economic environment.
the involvement of smes will create more jobs and their dynamic operation can allow for a cyclical migration of workers, which will mainly consist in upskilling through training, in which new or extended knowledge is acquired, as well as in maintaining a competitive environment that leads to better end products.
i welcome the european commission's flagship initiative under discussion, which aims to contribute to the competitiveness of member states' economies, to reducing the transaction costs of doing business in the union and, more generally, to creating a better business environment, strengthening and improving the tertiary education system and modernising and making labour markets more flexible.
i also support the increase in commitment appropriations for selected fp7 items (capacity building research for smes, cooperation energy, ideas, people, energy research) as i believe these items are a tool to ensure growth and investment in key areas that are central to the europe 2020 strategy.
i agree with the increase in the overall commitment appropriations for the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip intelligent energy and cip enterprise and innovation) compared to the initial allocation and believe that this increase will contribute to improving access to this programme for smes and to the development of specific programmes and innovative financial mechanisms.
− the eu 2020 growth strategy should not become a victim of the current austerity climate.
− i consider the new skills and jobs programme to be an important part of the eu 2020 strategy, because only a skilled workforce is a necessary prerequisite for the development of a competitive, sustainable and innovative economy.
beekeeping provides key services to agriculture in the form of pollination and helps to preserve species biodiversity and maintain ecological balance.
the deaths are undoubtedly the result of heavy environmental pollution and the widespread use of pesticides and antibiotics in agriculture.
even after the march accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, for understandable reasons, nuclear power remains a key part of the energy mix for many european union countries, or the only way for them to meet their needs.
in addition, the general challenge of dealing with nuclear waste management remains.
the commission should also support the establishment of a european reference network for beekeeping to monitor the health of bees in relation to environmental conditions and beekeeping or farming practices.
i welcome the commission's plans to review the rules on state aid for services of general economic interest in order to harness the potential of these services for social cohesion, environmental sustainability and economic prosperity.
i emphasise the potential of the industries defined in the member states as services of general economic interest and their importance not only for europe's competitiveness and sustainable economic growth in line with the conditions and objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but also as sectors that can undergo rapid development and become globally competitive, as demonstrated for example in the telecommunications sector.
he said his programme called for sustainable and massive growth, renewed confidence in the european union as a growth tool, a common commitment, consolidation of stability, a return to growth and an employment strategy.
as a participant in several climate conferences in recent years, i've already fallen into considerable skepticism.
if you look at the emissions numbers today, they're for elementary school students.
mr. chairman, i voted against the resolution for the climate change conference in durban.
the world's climate has changed, is changing, and will change regardless of human activity.
humans have always adapted to a changing climate, and will continue to do so in the future, without the need for expensive central climate controls in brussels.
global warming, or more recently climate change, cannot be a pretext for global social engineering, which involves imposing new taxes, banning certain technologies and subsidising others, supposedly green.
we see this, after all, in the steadily rising price of electricity in the european union, driven by the extremely high cost of renewable energy.
the euratom framework programme covers research activities in the fields of nuclear energy, nuclear fusion and fission, radiation protection and the development of expertise in these fields.
all the time i've been working on the news, i've been emphasizing that this legislation is about research, not the use of nuclear energy.
there are different views on the use of nuclear energy for electricity generation and in the energy mix, which we all have to respect.
i stressed the importance of research into nuclear dismantling, safety improvements and the safe management of nuclear waste.
this research is fundamental and could lead to a nuclear waste treatment that would significantly reduce the amount of longer-lived isotopes, thus making a significant contribution to environmental protection.
these reactors have higher safety, while having higher efficiency of utilization of uranium fuel while producing lower levels of radioactive waste.
nuclear fusion is perhaps the best hope for solving the world's growing energy needs.
nuclear energy is viewed with a great deal of emotion and populism.
by the way, the opponents of this carbon-free resource are very skilled at using information ammunition, which is often distorted.
and without energy, including nuclear fission and fusion, europe will be nowhere.
the extension of the 7th framework programme for nuclear energy is a logical step.
whether it was the integration of nuclear research carried out by the esnii industrial initiative or the european strategic energy technology plan set into strategy 2020. whether you have stressed the urgency of time to address budgetary issues in relation to both the jet project and the iter programme.
overfishing poses a serious threat to biodiversity and the sustainable marine environment.
it is important that georgia ensures proper disposal of toxic and radioactive waste on its territory as a necessary precondition for trade facilitation, in particular with regard to agriculture, in order to ensure food safety.
the prospect of nuclear fusion succeeding, however, is very appealing, and frankly, we don't have many options for how to deal with a situation where we run out of energy resources.
the mediterranean is the most endangered aquatic ecosystem in europe.
the problem is that within a species, individuals with similar dna make-up survive, making the entire local ecosystem more vulnerable.
the slightest change in the food chain, pollution, or climate can lead to the extinction of other species.
the work of this committee is therefore essential to protect biodiversity, reduce the amount of catches that can be taken and increase the number of reserves where fishing is prohibited.
it is our duty to preserve the biodiversity of species and fisheries for future generations.
draftsman of the committee on industry, research and energy.
- mr president, i am here as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on this subject.
− fruit juices produced in the european union are high-quality products that contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are produced according to sustainability standards that are supported by our legislation.
but this is not about european protectionism, it is about the sustainability of all sectors of our economy.
the general quality of products is assessed, inter alia, in terms of their ethical, environmental and social quality.
the report focuses on the legal environment for the labelling of fruit juices.
at the same time, i recognise the european aspirations and european choice of some partners and their commitment to building a strong and sustainable democracy, and in this context i stress the need to establish new and different relations between the eu and the eastern partnership countries and to support their efforts to consolidate sustainable democracy and market economies.
in the final proposal, we therefore call on the commission to present an analysis of the current situation as soon as possible, and no later than 2013. european cohesion policy instruments must continue to support a faster convergence of infrastructure levels in the member states, with an emphasis on transport sustainability and safety.
i therefore consider it important that we agreed in the final compromise to promote sustainable transport modes, across all distances.
i welcome the results of the intelligent energy for europe (iee) programme, which is not just about concrete successful projects and sharing their results.
the promotion of research and innovation in investment in sustainable energy projects has, despite some minor flaws or problems, put the issue of sustainable energy itself on the agenda.
without energy-conscious decision-making by public administrations and without public pressure to make such decisions, the objectives we are now discussing in the context of the energy efficiency directive cannot be considered at all.
without further supporting and facilitating energy-efficient decision-making, it will not be possible to ensure the internalisation of energy externalities in transport, nor to create a new impetus in the field of smart grids.
without economic and innovative thinking, integrated energy projects cannot be launched on a large scale and european energy cannot become sustainable.
− at a time when europe is on the verge of another economic crisis, i consider it a huge risk to set strict targets requiring a 20% reduction in co2 emissions from road transport, as well as a 30% reduction in emissions from aviation and shipping.
i generally regard the report as a good one, but unfortunately i am sorry for the trojan horse that has been smuggled into it in the form of unrealistic environmental targets to reduce co2 emissions from transport, the implementation of which will reduce europe's competitiveness.
i therefore give notice in advance that i will not support any legislative measure arising from this report which implements an unrealistic plan to reduce co2 emissions.
moreover, i am convinced that, while reducing emissions in transport is important, it should not be the absolute priority of the new transport policy, but only one of the main objectives, alongside improving mobility and overall eu transport connectivity, which will contribute to increasing the eu's competitiveness.