it is a matter of great concern to me, as a farmer, that we have to deal with scandals of this kind again and again, which are apparently caused by sloppiness but also by criminal energy.
it is therefore a requirement - and the member states are also responsible for this - that if the public prosecutor establishes that criminal energy is at stake, the penalty must be massively increased.
under these conditions, dioxin-contaminated technical waste from biodiesel production has now been able to enter the feed and food chain.
in addition, we have reduced the dioxin load in the environment by one tenth since 1990 through eu measures e.g.
chemicals legislation, improved standards for waste incineration plants, etc.
we can pass more laws and regulations, we can carry out more controls at greater cost, we can impose harsher penalties - none of this will counteract the criminal energy of such a hard struggle for existence.
but this system does not work with criminal energy and criminal machinations.
what is particularly important to me is that if it helps to improve transparency and prevent environmental damage from forestry activities, then it is good that the partners commit to changing and improving existing legislation.
the voluntary partnership agreements are based on the idea of jointly ending the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products and contributing to the reduction of deforestation, forest degradation and its consequences in terms of co2 emissions and biodiversity loss worldwide.
further large-scale exploitation of tropical and other species-rich forests with high carbon storage capacity is unacceptable and may lead to further deforestation and forest degradation, with devastating consequences for the environment worldwide.
with a growing world population or the impact of climate change and rising energy prices, it is clear that farmers in europe cannot cope alone in the future.
the commissioner for energy, mr oettinger, is pursuing a strategy which, in our view and in the view of the german environment minister, would lead to the destruction of the most successful renewable energy innovation programme we have in germany.
what will you do to prevent the german feed-in tariff from being destroyed under the heading of harmonization and thus preventing innovation in renewable energies?
and what will you do to ensure that mr oettinger does not play for time on the question of energy efficiency?
mr president, minister, honourable members, the final compromise which is on the table today reflects the essential spirit and fundamental purpose of this directive: to enhance patients’ rights to cross-border healthcare, while taking into account the sustainability of health systems.
i hope and wish that today's discussion will be the starting point for a fundamental change in the way waste is disposed of in campania.
the decision or the request of the european court of justice must finally be implemented and the european rules on waste collection and disposal must be applied there.
we are still faced with the burden of illegal or poor waste disposal in east germany, twenty years after reunification.
first, the creation of a waste management plan.
secondly, the provision of financial resources to create new recycling and waste facilities.
i have to say, madam president, i was able to learn about the situation of waste disposal in campania as part of a delegation from the committee on petitions.
the waste management problems of the past, present and future must be solved.
my impression of this trip: the present-day waste disposal was poorly solved at the time of the visit, partly with military intervention.
it was resolved at the time, the waste was taken out of the city and dumped, unfortunately, we have to say, some illegally dumped.
if the region presents a coherent waste disposal concept, the european union will release the funds.
we are interested in seeing the waste problem resolved locally in campania.
i must emphasize what sylvie goulard said: we need a perspective on how we can make europeans as a whole sustainable in the context of a green new deal, how we can set the course for new things in this crisis.
my group calls on you to involve parliament fully in this and we expect you to take seriously your promise to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to improve the environment, the protection of resources and food security.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
because transport is responsible for 30 percent of co2 emissions, and i am grateful that it has been taken up that transport is also being integrated into the central demands of the europe 2020 strategy.
for example, in the air transport sector, the climate killer par excellence, we have vat exemption and kerosene tax exemption.
because without a change in mobility, we're not going to be able to stop climate change.
i regret, however, that the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy was not taken up in its entirety, which provided that we not only - as the french presidency is doing now - address the question of speculation in agricultural raw materials, but that we also include speculation in metals.
we have reached a broad consensus and claim to have formulated a sustainable policy towards the far north.
this is true both of the indigenous peoples of the countries whose way of life and economy as such are based on the principle of sustainability and of the other citizens living there.
the eu is an attractive partner for arctic states because we are pioneers in forward-looking policy areas such as environmental protection and climate change.
whether or not the world's strongest single market has an ambitious environmental policy therefore makes a difference for this region.
the norwegian authorities cooperate in the exploitation of these resources in accordance with the highest norwegian environmental standards.
in the future, our earth observation satellites will be able to provide valuable support both in the environmental field and in the development of new sea routes, such as the north-east passage.
as a result of climate change, the region is becoming more and more capable of producing oil and gas and other resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution in the region.
industrial development, particularly through oil and gas exploitation, the expansion of commercial fishing, increased shipping - all of this will inevitably lead to a disruption, perhaps even destruction, of the highly sensitive ecosystem - with devastating consequences.
climate change has led to this situation in the arctic.
we must prevent its catastrophic progress, which can only lead to a rapid energy transition to renewable energies.
we, like many environmental organizations, are calling for a moratorium on new oil-production projects in the arctic.
climate change and global trade flows are not only risks, they are also opportunities.
because no one can tackle the impacts of climate change alone, and no one can develop the potential of the arctic region alone.
the commission communication gives priority to environmental protection, and the prominence of this point was maintained in the council conclusions of 2009. thirdly, we are proud of our sami eu citizens, and we are proud of the different provisions in the eu treaties and in the eu regional policy addressing the sami people.
this is totally in line with the eu principles of protecting the arctic and firmly asking for the highest environmental standards.
it also consolidates the eu’s balanced approach to the arctic, combining its protection and its sustainable development.
in a small way, you can see this from my point of view in norway, for example: they fish, they drill for oil and gas, they practice the highest environmental standards on land and in the sea, and they develop their northernmost regions for the people who live there.
what has changed in the political reality is that we do not believe we can force one or the other, but we are challenged to achieve all of these goals: a high standard of environmental protection, a limit on climate change, a sustainable fisheries policy, safe shipping routes, development for the inhabitants.
we also want a sustainable energy policy, greater energy efficiency and the creation of academic and student networks.
what i do find fault with, however, is the lack of a clear position on the question of energy infrastructure in the region keywords nabuko and south stream.
the commission is not we in the socialist group held a hearing yesterday, during which we prepared the weekend's energy summit.
that is why the summit of this weekend is a crisis summit in terms of energy policy, and unless we make a massive reduction in our commitment, we shall not achieve these objectives.
the second observation is that we are seeing a development in the energy price market which is leading to energy poverty in europe.
energy and energy supply are becoming a privilege for a large proportion of households.
the dependence of people on energy supplies is a matter of social injustice.
this is another matter which must be addressed at an energy summit.
(applause from the centre) this summit should be an energy summit.
under the slogan 'we need security of energy supply', many contacts were established, including by you, mr barroso, with countries such as azerbaijan and turkmenistan.
mr oettinger spoke the other day in the energy committee about how we are going to develop our energy relations with iraq, georgia and turkmenistan.
i think that, in view of the events in the southern mediterranean, where we are also experiencing the consequences of our policy of interest and our foreign energy policy, this is an adventure.
energy efficiency and renewable energy are the answers to a better and more secure energy supply, and i have to say, mr barroso, you have tolerated a lot of that too.
mr oettinger has neglected the field which mr piebalgs has well defined or - and this is the bad argument - he has re-engaged himself in not promoting future-oriented technologies such as renewable energy and energy efficiency and he is returning to the old energy mix.
if you are right in saying that these pressing issues - economic issues, euro issues, egypt issues - must be dealt with, then you cannot at the same time reproach commissioner oettinger for not dealing sufficiently with the energy issue.
energy policy is not good or bad if it suits your tastes or if others have a different opinion.
by the way, mr schulz, he is not listening at all, but that does not matter, this is the parliamentary debate game, you are obviously talking past each other (interruptions) you spoke of the poverty that can be created by energy prices.
i think this summit is a great opportunity to finally take a step forward on the infrastructure issue and to make sure that investment in infrastructure and energy is made, because all the other issues depend on whether we can do that.
the question is price, reliability and whether we are properly integrating renewable energies into the grid, and unfortunately we need considerable investment to do this.
speaking of thorough preparation of the energy summit and political priorities, mr reul, how do you feel about mr oettinger warning the european union today in a major interview at the faz in germany against too ambitious targets for renewable energies?
this is only a few weeks after the renewable energy directive, which we were all very proud of, came into force.
mr schulz rightly pointed out that in many member states the question of efficiency is still to be solved and that in many member states the renewable energy quota is not yet reached.
on friday, the first energy summit in the history of the european union will take place, because the union has direct competence in this sector for the first time with the treaty of lisbon.
and i agree with mr barroso that energy policy can be the next big integration project in the european union.
there are many aspects to this, and president buzek has always spoken of the need for an energy community in the eu.
there were many expectations at this summit, many hopes that the strategic questions of the european union in the energy supply would be answered.
yes, mr saryusz-wolski, it is the eu's dependence on energy imports.
it is the enormous waste of energy that still exists, and it is the negative consequences of the current energy system on ecosystems, particularly on the earth's atmosphere.
i would like to remind you that yesterday at the alternative energy summit of the s&d group a five-pillar approach was proposed on how we can answer these strategic questions, how we can reduce energy imports, reduce energy waste and of course also eliminate the negative impact on the environment.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency but also of energy efficiency.
the military's takeover of civilian functions is hindering the sustainable development of civilian structures.
finally, on the delegated acts, on which no agreement has yet been reached for all the financial instruments: in many policy areas, such as the environment and transport, there is no dispute over what is considered to be delegated acts.
we want to spend up to €348 million together on cooperation in areas such as science, academic exchanges - including erasmus mundus - culture, environmental protection and renewable energy, and stimulating bilateral trade relations.
the new instrument also requires that, when allocating funds, the regulation ensures that partner countries comply with the international labour organisation's core labour standards and are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions as an important contribution to the international fight against climate change.
the remaining outstanding issues are due to the wider interinstitutional relationship in a new treaty environment.
others are competing to fill in gaps we create, whether it be energy cooperation, business support, digital agenda objectives, etc.
i hope that the new regulation will be sustainable.
in addition, this financial instrument also benefits the equal exchange between the eu and third countries and helps to promote global openness and responsible support for sustainable development processes in the interest of citizens.
the next item is the report by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast) (com (2008) 0810 - c6-0472/2008 - 2008/0241 (cod)) (a7-0229/2010).
electronic waste is not about enforcing exaggerated environmental standards.
on the one hand, it is very much about environmental standards, but on the other hand, it is also about how we can safeguard our raw materials in europe.
we have information from countries with large ports, where 420 containers of high-quality electronic waste were examined, and 360 of them were illegal.
if you produce a lamp today, you have to register it in europe in all 27 member states before you can even sell it, just because of the waste directive.
the amount of waste from old equipment is increasing dramatically.
millions of tonnes of e-waste accumulate in the eu every year, posing a real threat to people and the environment.
i am glad that mr florenz's report acknowledges this problem and that we have been able to achieve some welcome improvements across the political groups in the committee on the environment.
nanomaterials can also become hazardous to humans and the environment in the recycling process.
these are amendments nos 101 and 102.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to address the honourable member by name, but unfortunately i do not know him because i have never seen him in the debate on electronic waste.
unfortunately, it is not a problem in this area only, but a problem across the whole environmental spectrum.
many of you mentioned that this is the fastest-growing waste stream.
we published 14 days ago the so-called waste report.
that very day i also visited unicor, which is one of the hi-tech companies that recycle electrical and electronic waste.
according to un data, in the 20th century the growth of our human population was four times, our output growth was 40 times, co2 emissions 17 times, energy consumption 16 times, fish catches 35 times and water consumption 9 times.
the council must remain firm, and it must also be pointed out once again that there is a strong desire for national regulation in waste policy.
waste knows no borders, especially electronic and electrical waste.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules on disposal and recovery be harmonised between and within the member states of the european union and, above all, that any export of waste be prohibited without certified and environmentally sound disposal.
the european union's fair offer to campania is: develop a holistic waste management concept that is logical, holistic, environmentally friendly, efficient and free from corruption.
the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive.
we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded.
the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive.
we regulate waste flows in many pieces of legislation, so it is not clear why an entire industry, where large waste flows are expected, is excluded.
the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive.
we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded.
the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive.
we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded.
- i am in general in favour of the directive on waste disposal.
we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded.
the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive.
we regulate waste streams in many laws, so it is not clear why an entire industry, where large waste streams are expected, is being excluded, especially since the solar industry will be a significant contributor to the waste stream in the foreseeable future when the first bulk solar panels installed on european roofs will need to be replaced.
but what the rapporteur, the council presidency and the commissioner have said shows that now is the time, we cannot waste any more time.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2011. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency [com (2010) 0184 c7-0137/2010 2010/0098 (cns) ].
a comprehensive danube strategy, bringing together all the regions concerned, their people and the member states, is a great asset and holds enormous potential for sustainable development for the whole river basin.
economic and environmental aspects can be brought into a sensible and forward-looking balance.
the biodiversity and cultural diversity of the entire river basin can be successfully marketed in joint tourism projects.
contrary to previous recommendations, the commission is adopting the type of equipment to enable category 4b vessels to operate all year round by 2015. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of the environment as a means of achieving economic and social cohesion.
mainly, full compliance with the short-term target is delayed by one year; the level of the penalty for non-compliance – the ‘excess emissions premium’ – has been lowered; and the ambition of the long-term target has been decreased.
by 2020, it will bring down the average co2 emissions of vans from the 2007 baseline of 203 grams of co2 per kilometre to 147 grams per kilometre.
in view of the expected growing demand for light commercial vehicles, the increased efficiency will represent an important contribution to the reduction of transport emissions.
moreover, the targets will stimulate innovation in industry and enable manufacturers to take advantage of the transition to a low-carbon economy and thus enhance their long-term competitiveness.
this is, of course, not sustainable.
i believe that this agreement is yet more proof of the european union’s commitment towards meeting its climate goals and i hope that you will lend your support to the compromise package when you vote later today.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
in this case it was possible because we found a compromise on the most contentious issue between the commission's proposals, the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i believe that we have launched an ambitious project, which can be achieved by industry and which will enable users in particular to benefit from affordable, yet modern, less carbon-intensive vehicles, in particular smes, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen, retailers and micro-enterprises that use these vehicles.
we are deciding today on a good compromise between ecological and economic aspects.
the commissioner has already said that, apart from the emissions trading system, these small sectoral legislative procedures which we are launching are very important in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
not only for the climate, but also for the air quality, there is an added value in vehicles consuming less.
the limit of 147 g, or 5.6 litres of diesel, also reduces emissions.
today is a good day for the european union's climate policy and also for environmental policy.
the eu commission has never really explained and the impact assessments do not show how a step towards reducing emissions - ms hedegaard just mentioned the figures - from 203 g today to 135 g within ten years is to be economically feasible.
this goes way beyond the climate targets we normally set for ourselves.
we should not convince ourselves that a co2 limit for light commercial vehicles will save the world's climate!
in times of climate change, i am concerned about the environment and the future of humanity.
the car manufacturers are now only required to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles to 197 grams co2/km by 2020. this is a gift to industry!
it is contrary to the eu's climate objectives and hinders technological innovation.
we should not be having a climate debate today, but we should simply be doing what is possible.
with the limitation of emissions to 147 g/km from 2020, we are now setting very clear targets.
this creates incentives for new technologies for energy efficiency and climate protection.
higher investment costs must be financed by energy efficiency and energy savings.
the railways are included in the emissions trading scheme, the buses are excluded - an advantage for the buses, a disadvantage for the railways.
the attacks and killings of journalists have created a climate of fear and oppression.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has already made it clear that if modernisation is to be sustainable, it cannot be a question of pursuing technological modernisation alone.
we have succeeded in preventing the compensation from going to waste.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has been able to push through its ambitious long-term target to the council and commission of limiting the co2 emissions of small haulage vehicles to a maximum of 147 grams per kilometre by 2020. the ambitious but realistic threshold can be reached with innovative environmental technology.
this was particularly important to us, because it is not good for the climate at all if the price of new cars remains unaffordable and then the old cars continue to pollute our roads and thus, above all, our environment.
high environmental standards do not harm industry - on the contrary.
we all agree that we must get on the reform bandwagon to preserve financial stability, increase the competitiveness and convergence of our economies and unlock the full potential for sustainable growth and job creation.
who will raise their hand and say, "we have to think about environmental issues"?
that anti-discrimination measures really need to be put in place - through commission action, through commission control, to improve this, because that is what makes pensions sustainable.
the white paper is a waste of time.
let me use this opportunity to call on the prime minister of albania, mr berisha, to create a truly inclusive political environment in albania.
let me also call on the leaders of the socialist party, mr rama, to ensure that his party is a truly constructive opposition – one which enjoys the benefits but also the responsibilities of this inclusive political environment we wish to see in albania.
there are also osce and odihr recommendations to improve the electoral environment.
− mr president, today 1.5 billion people are currently without access to electricity, but access to energy is a prerequisite for the eradication of the poverty that these people live in.
the right to energy implies that energy supplies achieve universal and reliable access: equitable access that bridges the gap between urban and rural areas and is also affordable.
it is also crucial for a country to develop a sustainable and secure energy supply, and the most reliable and secure one is a decentralised use of renewables.
but energy does not only need to be secure and reliable; its production also needs to take into account other issues such as climate change, deforestation, environmental degradation, human health, and the poverty it causes.
fossil fuels have a disastrous impact on health, environment and climate.
at the same time, the climate crisis is doing more damage to those living in extreme poverty.
fossil fuels create pollution that endangers both human health and a healthy environment, and they are expensive and their prices increase the more we run out of oil and gas.
fossil fuels create centralised, hierarchic and inflexible energy distribution.
renewable energy uses resources that will never run out and that many developing countries have in abundance: sun and wind mainly.
nevertheless, the world bank continues to push fossils in its energy strategy.
recent increases in lending for renewable and energy sufficiency remain tiny and cannot cover up the obvious preferences.
the bank continues to make significant investment in coal-fired power plants, locking developing countries into coal-based energy for decades to come.
this is not what an energy revolution looks like.
the world bank’s energy policy suffers from a lack of transparency.
40% of world bank loans to the private sector are transferred through those financial intermediaries and a large part of those loans goes to the energy sector, in particular extractives.
when we look at what sort of energy is counted as low-carbon, we can find large hydropower plants in the strategy.
this is not sustainable and this is not in the interests of the people and of society.
also carbon capture and storage do not make coal power low-carbon.
the same goes for nuclear energy.
uranium mining produces huge amounts of co2 and nobody knows what to do with the waste we are producing.
this is not low-carbon and this is not sustainable.
this is why the green/efa group will vote against the resolution unless the low-carbon wording is replaced.
this is what we promised at the climate negotiations, and we should stick to our promise.
there is still too much dominance of fossils and, when it comes to renewables, too much focus on hydropower plants – and they are not renewable, they are not sustainable, not for anybody.
so i hope that this parliament can make a strong statement on where we want the european energy policy and the policy that we promote for energy in the world to go.
i hope for your support to remove the wording on low carbon and go for proper, sustainable, renewable energy.
as regards the judiciary and fundamental rights, the main areas where croatia is called upon to deliver on its commitments are: establishing a credible and sustainable track-record in the fight against corruption; strengthening the independence, accountability, impartiality and professionalism of the judiciary; addressing the issue of impunity for war crimes; meeting targets in the housing care programme for refugees and improving the implementation of minority rights.
does anyone think that the issue of mandatory energy efficiency - to give just one example - is going to help drive the economy forward?
do you really think that the decisions we have taken on energy have stimulated the economy?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
climate change is causing extreme weather conditions, destroying entire crops in some countries.
the monitoring shall include all aspects of non-tariff barriers and its results shall be documented and reported to the european parliament and the council.‘ particular importance will be attached to the effective implementation of commitments on labour and environment of chapter 13: trade and sustainable development of the fta.
finally, let me elaborate on two issues which are of interest to you: the korean co2 legislation on car emissions, and the supplementary agreement on the draft korea-us fta (korus), which was finalised in december 2010. on 24 january 2011, korea confirmed that certain changes will be introduced to its previous draft co2 legislation, which satisfactorily address a number of concerns expressed by european car makers, while retaining korea’s ambitious emission reduction objectives.
the changes, which the commission welcomes, will not alter overall emissions, but will provide for fairer burden sharing between korean and eu car makers.
rest assured that the eu position on the korea co2 legislation was closely coordinated at all stages within the commission and, in particular, with my colleague connie hedegaard and dg clima, to avoid undermining korea’s environmental protection efforts.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
apart from the mantra of free trade as a quasi-savior for the dangerously disordered world economy, which is also reflected in the free trade agreement itself, this agreement does not yet show whether it is willing and able to contribute to the global challenges arising from climate change and the necessary fundamental economic restructuring.
at the same time, mr commissioner, the free trade agreement concluded contains little reference to sustainability, to change-oriented policies, to international economic cooperation.
the agreement with south korea includes a chapter on sustainable development, covering labour standards, environmental policy and a monitoring mechanism involving civil society.
in the interests of european consumers and our farmers, it is essential that the liberalisation of trade flows imposes that agricultural products imported into the european union meet our high standards of environmental, animal and consumer protection, both at the origin and in the production chain.
it is amazing how much korea has achieved in terms of democracy, self-determination, freedom, but also in terms of economy and now increasingly in the environmental field.
however, further efforts are needed, in particular in the areas of public administration reform, the rule of law, including judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and improving the business environment.
it is also about environmental infrastructure, better water supply, sanitation and more money for health and education, because we know that this will help to secure the future of third countries and is a very important contribution to the fight against poverty.
the optional mandate in the field of climate protection is also very positive from a green point of view.
the aim will be to give people a social perspective, to strengthen education policy, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, to ensure that crime and corruption are combated and, above all, to establish close cooperation in the field of energy policy, where north africa and europe have a lot to offer each other in the field of solar energy.
but this week it is on the agenda of the european parliament along with a carbon tax and eurobonds, and i think that is a good thing.
it is a question of improving the protection of the seas and the environment, of course also maritime affairs and fisheries, but it is also a question of much more, above all of three pillars: firstly, cooperation between the member states so that synergies can be better exploited.
this trade must of course be environmentally sustainable.
the atlantic also has large reserves of raw materials that could be exploited, but the environment must be protected in a sustainable way.
it is important for water and climate protection and biodiversity.
we can no longer afford to waste the potential of girls, young women and women in this society in this way.
the treatment of these substances must be carried out in accordance with the strict rules in force for the protection of human health and the environment.
the subject of the own-initiative report was not only the financial transaction tax, but also the smooth functioning of competition policy in the eu and the introduction of a carbon tax modelled on vat, which is to be levied on every product in the internal market.
we reject this carbon tax.
this is an environmental policy demand of the conservatives who want a mix of nuclear and renewable energy.
nuclear energy would not be subject to this tax.
we are calling for a tax on energy inputs, including nuclear energy, through a combined primary energy/co2 tax.
that is why i emphasise growth, the kind of inclusive sustainable growth which lies at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy.
it could constitute a major additional effort towards fair and sustainable growth in europe if it is coherent with the community system of governance.
let me say one last thing, mr barroso, because you have mentioned sustainable growth.
i cannot understand why an energy commissioner in brussels at this time says that ambitious climate protection means that we want to deindustrialise europe.
the german environment minister was in brussels 14 days ago and presented a study which forecasts six million jobs for the european union if we set the climate target at 30%.
you'd have sustainable growth.
we are ready to talk to you about a coordinating european economic government, an economic government that deserves the name, that is democratically constituted and that can help to create a sustainable and social europe.
it is also very important, in the context of the comprehensive strategy to be decided this march in the european union, that the member states look at the issue of debt sustainability.
thirdly, there are sustainability challenges, both in terms of the climate and in terms of the economic and social base.
we do not want to see environmental, trade or competition policy first and then, in a second step, align it with the interests of european industry.
on the contrary, we must define the other policies in the light of the strategic interests of a sustainable industrial policy.
yes, it can only be done through an integrated and sustainable policy!
we therefore need a regulatory framework to promote innovation and sustainability at the same time.
that was the great challenge of your report, that we should strike the right balance between environmental objectives and economic competitiveness, while leaving out protectionism.
if we cannot do that, we have a problem, and we must therefore coordinate the issues of cohesion, industry, trade, research and innovation, but also social, climate and environmental protection.
if we do not take the consumers with us, as is happening in germany with the e10 example, then climate protection policy combined with industrial policy is not feasible!
and so, in conclusion, mr vice-president, i am very grateful to you for saying that sustainability and competitiveness are not opposites, but must be on the same level and work together!
secondly, we want to link sustainability and competitiveness and develop them further.
the importance of sustainability criteria was also explicitly mentioned.
mining of rare earths has caused severe environmental damage in china, as it did in the united states and elsewhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do anything about the problems of the environment.
the first is the economic and financial crisis, and subsequently the euro crisis - the dramatic consequences, i believe, of a one-sided and unsustainable development model based on debt and deregulation, which has increasingly destroyed sustainability and also social cohesion and the efficiency of public budgets as the basis for it in our member states and throughout europe.
it is of course good to deal with sustainability, innovation and a future-oriented industrial policy, but i think it is equally important that we have also emphasised our traditional industries in this report.
both the un security council and the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency in vienna have adopted a series of resolutions requiring iran to take the steps necessary to build confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its programme.
the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment.
all of them want full and transparent cooperation with the international atomic energy agency.
vice-president ashton strongly condemned the murder and expressed deep concern over the climate of intolerance and violence in pakistan linked to the debate over the controversial blasphemy laws.
however, in the climate prevailing after the taseer murder, the amendments were withdrawn from parliament.
the european council will finalise this work at its next meeting and adopt a comprehensive package of measures to respond to the crisis, preserve financial stability and lay the ground for sustainable, job-creating growth.
ministers discussed the impact of the political crisis on the energy market, energy security and supply.
nevertheless the discussion highlighted, once again, the vulnerability of europe and the need for an even stronger common energy policy, including measures such as diversification of supply routes.
in itself those policies will not deliver growth, but it is quite clear that without those prerequisites we will not have the kind of growth we need: sustainable inclusive growth.
but our target, as i said in this parliament several times before, is growth: sustainable inclusive growth.
for that we also need to improve the business environment.
it will be for the commission to assess, in liaison with the european central bank (ecb), the existence of a risk to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and to undertake analysis of the sustainability of the public debt of the member state concerned.
a healthy banking system is a prerequisite for a sustainable economic recovery.
of course, every housewife and every businesswoman knows the importance of sustainable household management.
but that is not the same as sustainable households!
we need generational justice, we need sustainability in public finances, and then the euro will also become stable again.
we promptly convened the working party on atomic questions and an extraordinary energy council in order to assess the situation in japan, as well as its possible repercussions on the eu, and reflect on the eu response.
several member states are making a contribution, either bilaterally or through various coordination mechanisms operated by the commission or the international atomic energy agency.
as the hungarian minister for rural development, sándor fazekas, was told at the meeting of the environment ministers, for the moment the events at fukushima nuclear plant have no consequences for the population in the eu.
following the extraordinary council of energy ministers on 21 march, the hungarian national development minister, tamás fellegi, has written to brief president van rompuy on the proposal for stress tests for nuclear power plants and for other countries, particularly our neighbours, to be associated with this exercise.
an assessment needs to cover both existing and planned plants, and we must make full use of international organisations and bodies, like the international atomic energy agency, and other international associations like the g20 to involve other countries.
the eu has also been involved in the development of a new strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment.
we are in close contact with the international atomic energy agency in vienna on energy and we are closely monitoring, assessing and analysing the security situation in japan.
we have held a high-level conference on this last tuesday with all the member states, with all the energy companies operating nuclear power stations, with all the companies producing nuclear power stations and with the nuclear regulators of the european member states.
on monday, at the invitation of mr fellegi, the president-in-office of the council held an extraordinary meeting of the energy council.
fourteen countries have nuclear power stations, 13 of which are permanent from the point of view of their energy policy, germany with an exit strategy.
13 countries do not have nuclear power, of which two countries - poland and italy - are currently planning to enter or re-enter nuclear energy.
the energy mix is, with the exception of renewables, keyword 20% within the competence of national legislation and policy.
whatever developments are envisaged in the field of energy policy, the infrastructure for electricity, gas and storage capacity must be developed rapidly, with new quality and new capacity.
i had a long phone call with the ukrainian energy minister.
that is why we will be preparing these safety criteria in the coming weeks and we are happy to cooperate with parliament, but also with all the parties involved in the european union, ngos, energy companies, workers, technicians, engineers in the power stations, with the aim of further reducing risk and increasing safety as far as possible.
we are happy to inform parliament at any time of the next steps through its committees - as we have done in recent days - the committee on the environment, the committee on industry and energy, and we expect the european council to give us the necessary support here in brussels tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
we must also ensure that the necessary infrastructure is created for alternatives and that research is carried out on possible new energy projects, and this also addresses issues of climate change, jobs and competitiveness.
the european debate today, for me, is about talking, unlike 25 years ago, about the political consequences we must face when we realise that in our countries we are dealing with a technology which, in case of doubt, is out of control and not only destroys the past in certain regions, destroys the present, but seizes the future, the future of all those who live in the vicinity and in the wider environment of these installations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
that is why we call for an immediate phase-out of nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is for the benefit of the electricity companies, but in the event of an accident, the citizens bear the risk.
the european union should finally stop promoting nuclear energy and end the euratom treaty.
billions of taxpayer dollars are still pouring into a dangerous high-risk technology, while safe alternatives like renewable energy remain underfunded.
the resettlement programme was the subject on which we worked very intensively and with great urgency and in which we put a great deal of energy across all the political groups.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
− mr president, we have just heard from linda mcavan that she and the commission share the same view of how important it is actually to tackle emissions from transport; that is also reflected in the white paper on transport which will be coming out today.
unfortunately, development of the implementing measure linked to the greenhouse gas intensity reduction target contained in the fuel quality directive has taken longer than anticipated.
it is also foreseen that the draft implementing measure states that the commission will examine the ghg intensity of other categories of feedstock with high greenhouse gas emissions and, if scientifically warranted, the implementing measure will be amended through the addition of new feedstock categories.
the commission is not i thank mrs linda mcavan for asking the question, because the revision of the fuel quality directive has not only obliged fuel suppliers to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that are generated during the life cycle of fuels - for example, during transport, during production in refineries - but they are also obliged to reduce emissions per unit of energy by 1% per year from 2011 and by 10% by 2020. it is - and i believe this - possible to measure the reduction in emissions over the life cycle only if there are standard values, and these standard values must now be published or determined.
but i felt, when linda mcavan put her question in, that her favorite thing would be to take this energy sector out of production.
i should like to warn against this, because there are very different definitions and calculations of emissions from the extraction of crude oil or oil from sand or from shale.
i would also like to remind you that we are always talking about energy independence from sources outside the european union.
the environmental impact of tar sands is real.
there is an exhibition outside parliament, and perhaps one or two sentences will be used to question one or another figure, but that we have a dramatic environmental problem here is undeniable.
i have been thinking during the debate and also during the preparations for the debate about a phrase which our german environment minister, norbert röttgen, has repeatedly said: the low hanging fruit of fossil fuels has been reaped.
and that is why i must remind you again tonight that we all have reason - also because of the events of the last few days - to think even more deeply about the issue of energy efficiency.
i would like to see us pushing the commission, including commissioner oettinger, to pursue the 20% target for energy efficiency.
the gsp+ provides an interesting incentive system for developing countries to obtain further benefits by signing and implementing important international agreements in the field of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection.
it was not just about having free access to air transport services, which could be used in different ways, about the environment, about safety, etc.
we are calling for more money to be spent at european level on climate change policy, for a faster move towards renewable energy sources and for more money to be spent on education and research.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
we don't know where to put the nuclear waste.
why do we want to spend so much money now to start this project instead of redirecting the euratom funds to an exit from nuclear energy and a faster entry into renewable energy sources?
we all know -- when we think about the un and climate policy -- that we have to change the way we produce energy.
the 2012 budget faces a difficult economic and financial environment in the 27 member states.
i think it is particularly important that we promote research, education and also sustainability and the strengthening of economic growth, and in this context i also think it is important that major projects such as iter - and i thank mrs jensen for her remark - should be financed, financed and managed clearly, otherwise the americans who are currently implementing the same project will be well ahead of us and we europeans should not always be lagging behind.
i would like to express my support for mrs köstinger in this connection, who said that we also need a system which is sustainable and sustainable for our mediumsized industry.
there are various reasons for migration: war, conflict, poverty, discrimination, violence and persecution, family, climate change and many more.
stability without democracy is not a sustainable way forward.
we need to find a way to protect climate migrants, as they have to flee because we cause climate change.
we need a liberal asylum and migration law in europe and a different development policy that is truly sustainable.
in future, the focus will be even more on creating and promoting sustainable rural areas.
mr barroso, you spoke of europe 2020: more jobs, more investment, more research and education, more environmental protection - great: by ever-less public investment.
we believe that we need a democratically legitimized and controlled economic policy which prevents tax, wage and environmental dumping by means of common minimum standards, which ensures effective regulation of the financial markets and which prohibits the privatization of profits while at the same time imposing risks on the general public.
or is it investing in a modern energy system and in the education and training of its children?
mr oettinger a scholarly student of angela merkel, he is now also against nuclear energy, he used to be in favour of it, but fukushima is the modern damascus: all the sauls of this earth have now seen a bright sun in the sky.
they are also higher than the values which, for example, in the usa - a country which makes a very heavy use of nuclear energy - apply to foodstuffs in such a case.
− as the lisbon treaty clearly recognises, mr bisky, the energy mix is the national competence of the member states.
it is not up to the european institutions to decide which energy sources each country should have.
we are now in a position where those in favour of nuclear energy and those against – because there are member states in europe with different positions – at least agree that we have to upgrade all the conditions for nuclear safety.
mr barroso, what is your view of the proposal to establish a european community for the promotion of renewable energy sources for an environmentally friendly energy supply and for energy saving within the framework of the eu treaty?
secondly, do you have any concrete proposals - at least for cities - on how to reduce air pollution?
maybe i could tell you why we are actually in favour and we are even co-financing some of the landfill, even if we do believe that this is on the lowest level of the preferred options in the waste hierarchy.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently published a report on the environment in the european union.
i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the hungarian presidency reacted immediately to the japanese disaster, particularly in view of its work on nuclear energy risks.
at the same time, we must continue the work already under way in the area of legal regulation and adopt the proposal for a directive on spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
for any single energy source, whatever its contribution to security of supply, considerations of guaranteeing supply must not be allowed to override safety considerations relating to the protection of human health or the environment.
so the energy mix is a free choice.
this will remain the case for some time to come, as the energy mix, the choice of which to choose, is a matter for the member states.
however, in terms of common objectives, we can still make progress towards the establishment of a common energy policy.
for example, this year we're going to start looking at the 2050 energy agenda.
this will assess the contribution of each energy source to meeting our climate change commitments, while also meeting our energy policy, security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness objectives.
in addition to the freedom to choose the energy mix, the deepening of the internal market and the increasing interconnections have led to an increasing interdependence between member states' energy policies and energy source choices.
accordingly, it is appropriate to develop a common vision of the implications of our energy policies in terms of investment, energy prices and regulation.
this also means that, as nuclear energy currently accounts for 30% of europe's energy production, none of the 14 member states that have chosen nuclear energy can decide to close their nuclear power plants immediately without consulting the other member states and considering both the alternative energy sources and the network issues involved.
to this end, the presidency intends to hold a detailed discussion on this subject at the informal meeting of energy ministers in may.
last but not least, it is important to inform the public about the underlying assumptions and the advantages and disadvantages of the energy sources chosen.
the terrible earthquake of 11 march, the subsequent tsunami and the accident at the nuclear power station centre, with considerable damage to the various blocks, and to date no definitive progress in repairing the damage and managing the risks, the nuclear power station is still out of control according to the state of the art, all this concerns us also with regard to safety and the energy industry in the european union and beyond.
we therefore invited a high-level group of ministers and representatives of national governments, representatives of nuclear power plant manufacturers and representatives of the energy industry to meet on 11 march, and then on 15 march.
the council of energy ministers made preparations on 21 march for the european council, which finally, on 25 march, instructed the commission and the national nuclear regulators to carry out an extraordinary stress test, a comprehensive safety check, with the aim of achieving the highest standards.
we know that the responsibility for the energy mix and thus also for energy technology and thus for nuclear power stations or other technologies lies with the member states.
i would like to refer to the relevant proposals on nuclear waste which have been put forward by the commission and are under consideration in parliament and the council.
the commission is not in germany, 250,000 people recently demonstrated for the immediate phase-out of nuclear energy and for a switch to 100% renewable energy.
after chernobyl and fukushima, it is clear that nuclear energy will have a residual risk.
and i think there has to be a european-wide exit scenario from nuclear energy.
we are also in favour of the introduction of a new energy policy, which will be based on the principle of the 'green economy'.
commissioner, you presented an action plan on energy efficiency before fukushima.
energy efficiency is cost effective, and we really have to give gas to it.
it is well known that there are very different views on the question of 'nuclear energy - yes or no' in the member states and also here among the political groups.
i would therefore like to ask whether it is not time or opportunity to put the question of whether or not to withdraw, whether or not to be enthusiastic about nuclear energy, in the background today and tomorrow and to concentrate on this.
now, in a recent interview with time, the president of the potsdam institute for climate change, mr schellnhuber, said: "yes, that is true.
you heard the chairman of the committee on industry, and now i speak as chairman of the committee on the environment.
the eib's core mission is to promote the eu's objectives through long-term financing of sustainable investments.
social standards, transparency and high environmental standards namely the development of a sustainable economy and job creation.
to improve transparency, ngos continue to propose the disclosure of environmental and financial information on eib-funded projects before they are approved.
in particular, eib projects in third countries should be subject to independent sustainability assessments to determine the economic, social and environmental impact of the project.
the monitoring of compliance with eu environmental, social and procurement standards is also criticised by ngos.
the eib's current objectives include the promotion of sustainable and secure energy supplies.
in the wake of the fukushima nuclear disaster, the promotion of sustainable, renewable, carbon-free and nuclear-free energy generation and the promotion of energy efficiency must be given top priority in all areas of eib investment.
i would also like to support mrs paulsen who said that we must expect other animal diseases in the near future because of climate change.
i have no doubt that this means organising a clear energy transition away from nuclear energy - a step towards the exit - at european level.
i hope that we will be able to organise a unified energy policy in the near future so that we can move safely and with a reasonable position into the energy future - towards energy efficiency and renewable energies.
i think it would have been better to have agreed to the compromise, because i also know that the question of nuclear energy is answered very differently in the european union.
but precisely because environmental and accidental impacts do not stop at national borders, it would have been important for me to include and accept the minimum requirements.
thirdly, we should not neglect research into renewable energy, but also into fusion, storage and recycling of nuclear fuels.
the committee on culture therefore proposed that the 790s should not be opened for the time being, but unfortunately the committee on industry, research and energy did not follow this.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
my group has repeatedly called on the commission to present a plan b to help the people of pakistan to rebuild their country quickly and in a sustainable way.
the trade facilitation in textiles, leather and ethanol that you now want to grant pakistan would undermine the gsp+ status that countries like bangladesh have acquired, unlike pakistan by ratifying important un and ilo conventions on workers' rights and environmental protection.
secondly, i cannot understand how a country that does not meet the conditions of gsp+ in terms of social and environmental standards can now be given these facilities and send a signal to other countries that do, like bangladesh, that your efforts are not wanted, that there is another way.
there is also sustainable development, which is of course very important for us but very sensitive in india.
so yes, there will be a chapter on sustainable development that will be part and parcel of the agreements, that will recognise the importance of relevant international standards and be based on cooperation, but we also need to be clear that a sustainable development chapter which would allow the use of trade restrictions linked to social or environmental issues will not be acceptable to india.
in addition, through the dispute-settlement provisions, we are reducing the policy space for india, and for the eu and its member states, to introduce, for example, new environmental legislation.
the mechanism in question has led to multinational companies suing countries for their policies on health and environment – and your governments, too, will be affected by this.
what about the environment and agriculture?
the summit should take concrete decisions, in particular on cooperation in the rehabilitation of contaminated areas and on joint research and development in the field of renewable energy.
i do not want to repeat what has been said about the need for impact assessment in the bilateral area or about not making the mistake of first defining free trade priorities and then making european industrial policy a dependent variable and also considering the question of contribution to sustainability.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made a very positive statement in its opinion for the committee on budgetary control.
because it is not our goal to start short-term projects that are not sustainable.
i shall now comment on the agencies with which i have dealt in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in the committee on the environment we have examined six agencies which have generally achieved excellent results in terms of the intensity and quality of their work.
i would like to see a more precise assessment of the cost savings achieved for the union as a whole by improving the environment and to have the figures presented.
the commission's other responsibilities include tackling environmental pollution.
we are currently supporting a radio ecology excellence network under the 7th euratom framework programme to fund integration, networking and scientific excellence in the interest of radiation protection for people and the environment.
i have not heard where the nuclear waste is going to be, nor is the disposal of it secured.
in the end, the safest option is to give up nuclear energy.
in all our cooperation with these countries, i would also like us to set up workshops for the future and to offer advice on energy saving and the development of alternative energy sources.
the dispute over the repeatedly falsified figures of the international atomic energy agency must be endured.
chernobyl, like fukushima, has shown that any rules that can be made must measure the residual risk of human error and that in this respect we must of course be all the more clear about where the limits of nuclear energy lie, because even the best regulations cannot eliminate this residual risk of human error.
this energy, with the residual risk associated with it, can be sustained for a temporary period only if its use is accompanied by the necessary openness.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
sustainability includes mandatory, hard-hitting stress tests that examine the impact of natural disasters on nuclear power plants, but also of accidents, terrorist attacks and human error.
the committee on employment calls for the legal basis of the waste directive to be extended to the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
this would also include those dealing with radioactive waste and spent fuel elements.
this is leading to a rethinking of energy policy.
i therefore fully support the commissioner for energy, who has made important proposals in this direction!
that is also the reason why, through the benchmark system, we have ensured that the sectors most exposed to carbon leakage will get almost all of their allowances for free.
they are also introducing carbon trading now; they are finding out exactly how to do it.
they will start it on 1 january 2015. china is carrying out huge pilot projects on carbon trading.
they are also introducing environmental taxes, and so on and so forth.
i could cite a lot of economies that we are competing with who have now realised that they also have to conduct ambitious environment policies, energy policies and climate policies.
in such a climate, rumors and half-truths flourish most splendidly.
written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the enforcement of legislation on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries, by catherine bearder, lena ek, miroslav ouzký, richard seeber, christa klaß, rebecca harms, on behalf of the alde group, the ecr group, the ppe group and the verts/ale group (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=oq&reference=o-2011-000065&language=de" - b7-0217/2011) and the oral question to the commission on the enforcement of legislation on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries, by sabine wils, tamara kartika, liotara bairro, bruns de brún, joão ferreira, joão ferreira, nicolaas gonzalez, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=oq&reference=o-2011-000065&language=de" - b7-0217/2011).
illegal waste shipments and the illegal disposal of hazardous waste pose a growing threat to the health and environment of millions of people in developing countries.
the amount of toxic waste in the eu is constantly increasing.
the high cost of waste recycling and disposal has led to a temptation to dump this waste in countries with lower environmental standards and lower disposal costs.
the existing regulations on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries must be strengthened and enforced.
we need a bill on environmental inspections, which parliament called for in 2008, so that ships in ports can be effectively controlled by local authorities.
the eu also needs to improve its control of waste shipments.
off the coast of calabria, a few miles from the port of cetraro, lies a sunken ship known for transporting highly toxic waste.
many more toxic waste ships are suspected to have sunk in the tyrrhenian sea off the coast.
this example also illustrates the need for transparency in waste shipments and reliable official inspections.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be to express the regret of my colleague and friend potočnik, who is in new york this evening to sign an important agreement, the nagoya agreement, on biodiversity.
i was minister for the environment in my own country and i have not forgotten the efforts we made, in my first term as commissioner some ten years ago, to begin to deal with this extremely serious issue with parliament.
the waste shipment regulation prohibits exports of hazardous waste to developing countries in the same way as exports of waste for disposal outside the eu and efta countries.
operators often seek to take advantage of the lack of inspections to circumvent the ban and transit waste through other member states where the inspection requirements - you mentioned it - are less stringent.
in addition, waste is often exported under the guise of being misrepresented as second-hand goods, which complicates the task of the authorities responsible for monitoring and enforcing the rules.
and there is the very serious situation of the countries which receive, if i may say so, this waste, this illicit transfer which is causing a great deal of pollution of the air, water, soil, homes, and which threatens - you said it just now, mrs wils, and before you, mrs bearder, or mrs rosbach, said it with the same emotion - the health of the people and especially of the children, which is the most scandalous, and of the workers and of a large part of the population.
the already toxic nature of the hazardous substances contained in the waste often represents an increased risk, in addition, when there are inadequate techniques for waste management, which is often the case in these countries of destination.
in addition, illegal shipments of waste to third countries obviously have a negative effect on trade and competition, since economically, compliant companies are obviously competing and disadvantaged.
the european recycling and waste management sector, which is obliged to respect the strict environmental legislation of our union, is a dynamic sector.
it provides or supports 1.2 to 1.5 million jobs and represents 1% of gdp, and it is this sector of waste management, recycling, which is working properly, that is also competing or disadvantaged by this traffic.
effective enforcement of the waste transfer regulation at eu level would, i believe, encourage the sector to invest and create more jobs in the future.
illicit waste transfer, poor quality recycling, also lead to a loss of resources since secondary raw materials can greatly contribute to meeting europe's raw material needs, and also improve resource efficiency and use.
the commission therefore sought to know whether additional legislative measures should be taken at union level and, if so, what new specific requirements and criteria would be defined for inspections on shipments of waste.
we are currently finalising an impact analysis of the different possible approaches to solving the problem i have just mentioned, including national inspection plans and programmes, mandatory national risk assessment, and more targeted training of national officials responsible for inspections of provisions and, conversely, the burden of proof for those who fraudulently declare waste as second-hand goods.
first, it is possible to circumvent the waste shipment regulation by claiming that the items exported are second-hand goods rather than waste.
non-legally binding guidelines at union level could support and facilitate the implementation and enforcement of the waste shipment regulation, including by customs, and thus contribute to the fight against illegal activities.
waste generation has increased or stabilized in recent years.
waste management is improving across the union, recycling has increased over the last five years.
however, what is currently remarkable is the wide disparities between member states in the implementation of our waste requirements.
the commission, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of the environmental, economic, social, human and public health consequences of illicit waste shipments, and the case of the probo koala, in which several people died as a result of exposure to hazardous waste dumped illegally in côte d'ivoire, is one of the worst examples we have in our memory, and there are lessons to be learned here too.
as soon as illegal shipments of waste are detected, the regulation provides for measures to remedy the situation.
the waste must be returned to the country of origin in accordance with union and international law.
if the companies responsible cannot be found, the country of origin in the union must pay an invoice for the repatriation and treatment of the waste.
- mr president, mrs mcguinness has just said something important, namely that this issue has a moral and ethical dimension, given all the concerns we have raised about public health, biodiversity and the economy.
in support of the impact assessment, which will demonstrate the merits of this initiative, the commission will propose to strengthen eu legislation, in particular to improve inspections and enforcement of the waste shipments regulation, which should reduce the considerable number of such illegal shipments very significantly.
they are cared for and maintained to provide services for people and the environment, namely as producers of oxygen, as storage for co2 and as homes for plants and animals.
− forests and forestry already make an important contribution to the production of indigenous raw materials, provide a recreational space for many european citizens and are important for climate protection.
there is hardly any other sector in which the ecological, economic and social functions are so closely intertwined.
one of the most important of these is climate change.
it is the responsibility of the member states, with the support of the european commission, to develop and protect the forest for future generations, so that it can continue to contribute to our environment, society and economy.
this includes sustaining and increasing the contribution of forests to climate protection, but also securing the economic basis of forestry and timber production, so that a sufficient supply of timber is guaranteed in the future.
the city has retained and maintains an intercultural character, even though the political environment is increasingly divided along ethnic lines.
we will therefore have to deal intensively with the issues of copyright, social protection and intellectual property, but also with open access to information and content, in order to ensure the future development of the creative and cultural industries in a digital environment and to preserve the cultural diversity and heritage of europe as an essential feature of the european union.
secondly, the raising of the de minimis thresholds should be seen as an opportunity to help fishermen to work more environmentally friendly and sustainable, i.e.
european agriculture faces at least three major challenges: first, the safeguarding of human food, second, the preservation of the environment and third, the production of energy.
we are debating today and tomorrow a european law which may not seem so important at first sight, but with this law on european environmental balances we are probably opening a new chapter in the measurement of progress and prosperity.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
but we have a torso and a patchwork of environmental impact data.
this law on the environmental accounting of the whole economy is intended to help the 27 member states to take a precise account of the situation and to determine whether we are moving forward or, as is often the case, whether we are going backwards.
as early as 2002, parliament called for sound information on the state of the environment, the main trends, influences and causes of environmental change to be collected and the public to be informed about it.
it was very difficult in the council because some countries do not draw up environmental reports and we first have to establish a foundation for all 27 member states.
the commission has proposed to include three modules: these are the air emissions, so we know very well what gases are emitted into the air.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the project is not underestimated.
it is perhaps a start, but it is too simple a start, and parliament has demanded that we also draw up water, energy and waste balances, that we know the state of the forests.
in most countries, environmental economic data for the three modules are already collected on a voluntary basis.
we need a clear picture of what is being achieved in each country in terms of air emissions, environmental taxes and material flows.
this will help us to understand better the dependence of the environment and the economy.
we can also examine how sustainable economic development is taking place in europe and how environmental policy could be refined.
the commission intends to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development.
it proposes three modules to collect data on economic activities that cause air emissions, environmental tax revenues and material flows.
i doubt the efficiency of the bureaucratic effort and i question the objectivity of the project of drawing up environmental economic balance sheets, of recording material flows and of evaluating individual products and even plants precisely in terms of co2 emissions.
for example, both the production of oxygen and the emissions of co2 from production and transport must be included in such calculations for plants.
i thank you for the debate and i see a widespread support for the creation of environmental balance sheets in the european union.
many of us thought that there was, and then we are surprised to find that there is not much data and that we are therefore quite blind in our statements about the state of the environment in the european union.
these environmental reports can help us to do that.
we have the eu 2020 strategy, where sustainability is the plan objective.
we know that gdp doesn't tell us anything about the state of nature, the environment, the resources we've used, and the whole sustainability issue.
the commissioner has said that the individual laws - the water laws, the waste laws, the air pollution laws - already require such data to be collected.
if we sign the biodiversity convention, the climate convention, other conventions, then we need to be able to tell other parts of the world whether we were good or bad.
i would also ask the commission to explain its negative attitude to canada's proposals on social and employment policy, which are positive for the sustainability chapter.
we find in practice that the regulatory environment has led to the fact that in many cases, it is absolutely necessary to use credit ratings, by banks, by insurance companies, by pension funds, etc., who invest their money.
the commission will also continue to promote sustainable development, decent work, labour standards and corporate social responsibility in other policy areas, such as trade and development policy.
we know that a change in mobility is necessary to protect the climate.
we greens want to protect the climate and secure mobility in the future.
the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank you, mr garriga, and the colleagues on the standing committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of a sustainable european union after 2013, who have done an excellent job in my opinion.
but it can also be said that europe is the answer that we, as a continent, are giving in the 21st century to the economic, ecological, financial, monetary and migration challenges of a globalised world.
we want sustainable integrated urban development, and we want well-educated skilled workers.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of the environment.
the great challenges ahead of us are the ecological transformation and the construction of intelligent energy networks.
what we're doing here is not a waste of money.
if we wanted real structural reforms, we could have taken david cameron's proposal, for example, to go to the council and say: 'we are freezing funds, but we are asking for unused funds to be carried over to the next financial year so that we can continue to use them to design sustainable projects and save money.'
i do not consider the ad hoc committee on the political challenges and budgetary means for a sustainable european union after 2013 to be the appropriate and competent advisory body for such an intermediate category.
i understand that this is an invitation to waste money.
and if we don't want to measure it at all or if we want to measure it only by social and environmental criteria, then we are heading for disaster.
- i voted for this report because i am for corporate social responsibility towards employees, customers, the environment and society.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market.
this also excludes, for example, the use of energy as a political weapon.
we need energy independence and energy security and less dependence on russian energy policy, which is still used for foreign policy purposes.
energy problems make civil and economic life difficult.
the petitioners argued that the local limit for carrying out an environmental impact assessment of 20 hectares was not respected, but that the project was artificially small and that this 20 hectares limit was in fact exceeded.
we came to the conclusion that at least the provisions resulting from the environmental impact assessment applied in austria were complied with at that time.
we have asked whether the capital has now introduced a legal approach to environmental impact assessment that is correct and in line with our european rules.
mr potočnik and i are pleased that we have a parliament which has made monitoring environmental legislation a priority of its work.
and the eia directive is of great importance in the ecological development of the european union.
it is an important instrument for us to achieve sustainable development.
it is about the construction and integration into the environment as a whole.
he has, and we have, the intention of presenting a new text which will further strengthen environmental protection, taking account in particular of the areas of climate change, energy and biodiversity, which will also incorporate the current and important case law of the ecj and harmonise and simplify existing procedures as far as possible, and also exclude possibilities of circumvention even more clearly than before.
the commission will take action to ensure that the austrian authorities address the environmental impact of the work already completed, in order to ensure that future extensions of the ski resort in the mellau-damüls region will properly apply the requirements of this directive.
the general problem i see is also my question to the commissioner: many citizens are concerned about the implementation of european environmental law in the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are responsible for the energy mix and for the control, authorization and supervision of nuclear power stations.
i am grateful to parliament, in particular to the two committees on industry and energy and the environment, for their strong support and for having brought their expectations into the negotiations.
i would also like to say that i am also trying these days to ensure that an objectively strict legal framework is found for the issue of radioactive waste.
i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive approach to the problem of the environment.
if i had to say something about germany, it would be this: i think it is right that the german government, for example, led by climate politician klaus töpfer, has said: "the inherent risk of the plants is too great and in the event of a disaster unmanageable.
in order to protect people in europe and neighbouring countries, the eu should promote the withdrawal of its neighbours from nuclear energy in its neighbourhood policy, in addition to a pan-european exit scenario, and thus prevent the construction of new nuclear power plants.
there is a danger that we will not be able to do anything at european level and that this will be a waste of time.
but i would point out that 13 eu member states are already operating without nuclear energy, including very successful countries such as austria and denmark, so that this possibility must certainly be accepted for germany as well.
for example, energy efficiency was explicitly mentioned.
i would like to support mr oettinger in presenting an ambitious proposal on energy efficiency in two weeks' time.
but on the other hand, it is always better, especially when you are suing for human rights or when you are suing for better environmental rights, to maintain cooperation with russia - already because of its size.
we will only survive in intercontinental competition - ecological, economic, financial and monetary - if we join forces.
the cap should be sustainable and competitive, provide consumers with safe and high-quality food and promote renewable energy.
european agricultural policy must ultimately be in line with climate and diversity objectives.
european agricultural policy must deliver environmental performance.
large companies must do more for jobs and the environment.
rural development, environmental measures and disadvantaged regions - these are clearly areas where we must focus.
we want a sustainable, ecological and social agricultural policy.
cross compliance and agri-environmental measures in the current system are not enough to get the support of the whole of society, but that is exactly what we need.
our main objective must be to ensure high-quality and sustainable food production in europe and to maintain an active and vital rural area.
we are in favour of a competitive and sustainable european agriculture.
but this new approach must not discriminate against countries and farmers who are already pursuing very ambitious environmental programmes under the second pillar.
environmental programs are expensive.
we have a lot of ambition for this second pillar in terms of the balance of our territories, environmental issues, young farmers, small farming, local markets and the development of our rural areas.
secondly, i do not want - and the commission does not in its communication - to put food, which remains the main and essential objective of the common agricultural policy, in contradiction with the environmental question.
that is where we want to find the balance in the cap, not to oppose the food question to the environmental question.
we will propose measures to deal with crises, whether they are market crises, health crises or crises linked to climate change.
it feeds over 500 million people, cultivates and maintains over 170 million hectares of arable and green land, provides many jobs both upstream and downstream, is a major pillar of rural areas and is already the most sustainable agriculture in the world.
we social democrats have been very active in advocating the alignment of the new eu agricultural policy with ecological standards.
the fact that the budget for environmental protection is to be cut is a sign of a narrow-mindedness which commissioner cioloş hopefully will be able to convince him of.
this has little to do with democracy and even less with a social and sustainable europe!
this would include investment in the modernisation of energy supply systems.
the issue of the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste is a very topical one.
we have tons of radioactive waste in europe that's being moved by people.
we need to have a complete record of all waste and its disposal as long as it is harmful to people and the environment.
i am pleased that many of our demands have been included in the final report of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the socialist group supports the eickhout report because it sends a very strong signal to the rest of the world that we are not going to give up on climate protection.
it's a signal to the inside that we're taking our 2008 climate pledges seriously 20% renewable and 20% energy savings.
together, these already result in a 25% reduction in co2 emissions within the eu.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
however, it must be said that if you look at the energy priority of the eu 2020 strategy, for example, you get the impression that the commission is tending to do business as usual because the priority is not fully funded.
is this the right symbol in these times when funding is being cut for other research projects, especially renewable energy?
if we take seriously the commission's and the european union's claim to be pursuing a real climate change policy and to be taking the path towards renewable energy, but if we give such a clear priority to the money for this project, we think that this is the wrong decision.
there is much to be done after 2013: the challenge of demographic change, the change in economic structure, transport connectivity deficits, the introduction of the renewable energy age, the widening of social disparities.
modern cohesion policy means facing new challenges, creating modern infrastructure, tackling climate change, supporting energy security and energy efficiency, promoting research and development, supporting smes, developing employment.
through the decentralised structure and through the participatory structure, cohesion policy will make a decisive contribution to a resource-efficient, low-carbon, innovative and social europe.
contrary to the rapporteur's personal opinion, i believe that the instruments of cohesion policy must contribute to climate protection and poverty reduction, alongside smart investment.
different national requirements of project partners often make it difficult to cooperate and to implement concrete sustainable projects.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
for proper, sustainable growth and development we actually need more time; we need to take a longer view.
in today’s economic climate the stakes are very high.
the energy efficiency plan has been advanced.
i think parliament is moving in the direction of the commission that this responsibility, this responsibility, is being transferred to the member states and that each state must decide for itself whether it wants to release gm plants into the environment or not.
the lepage report fills precisely these gaps in environmental aspects.
we have completely different ecosystems, different environmental cultures.
this is because of the changes made by the environment committee.
we can agree with the lepage report because it finally sets out clear rules on why member states can ban genetic engineering from their fields for environmental and socioeconomic reasons.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
mr president, i would like to inform the house that voting in favour of the first part of the next amendment would mean voting against the energy and climate package of 2008. we have a lot of studies from the commission showing that fulfilling the climate package means a 25 % reduction, so i would like to ask the house to vote against this amendment.
in europe, no green genetic engineering product will be placed on the market unless it is guaranteed to be completely safe for human health and the environment, as the safety of people and the environment is of paramount importance.
firstly, i think it is very regrettable to present the causes of climate change as monocausal, i.e.
to look only at co2 emissions.
secondly, while minimising co2 emissions, consideration should also be given to resource efficiency, or consumption.
it is still important to produce a given product with as little energy as possible and not just to look at co2 emissions.
it is of no use to take measures to reduce production in one country or sector of the economy and then to produce the same amount of production in another with much higher emissions.
- i am committed to climate action, but to realistic climate action, combining sustainability and economic development, and so i voted against this report.
the eu's climate/energy package has agreed the conditions for an increase in our reduction commitments.
the un climate negotiations will be hardly affected by this increase in our targets.
i appreciate the opportunities that energy efficiency offers and i called for a binding energy efficiency target in the 2009 climate report.
however, i am opposed to attempts to reopen the debate on eu reduction commitments by using the energy efficiency route, through the back door, so to speak, to change the agreed cornerstones for the emissions trading system but not to demand binding efficiency targets.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the environment.
the only way we're going to convince people is if we prove that climate action is not just a competition of numbers, but an opportunity to build societies and economies that are truly sustainable.
there is also no certainty about how we can meet our commitments and whether our emissions trading system really works.
i also do not see the threat of tightening up energy efficiency targets as realistic.
however, we as greens criticize that many planned expenditures are still not sustainable, not ecological enough.
to conclude, let me once again thank ms roth-behrendt, and all the committee on the environment, public health and food safety members for their work in preparing this valuable report.
sustainable improvement of the human rights situation in colombia requires us to address the root causes of the violence in the country.
in addition our agreement includes a number of binding commitments to effectively implement core labour and environmental conventions and makes provision for a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of labour standards which allows for the participation of civil society organisations.
the challenges we have often spoken of, from the ecological crisis, from the climate crisis, must be met in this economic crisis.
turning back the wheel and forgetting the challenges of global warming, e.g.
and what poland could gain in this dispute over the green new deal is to drive sustainable economic development for poland too - especially in the energy sector.
i hope that we can agree on the idea of climate protection and sustainability, with a view to boosting innovation not only for the deficit countries but for the whole european union.
the federal minister for the environment, mr röttgen, whom i do not always quote, but i like to quote here, said: 6 million new jobs can be created through an ambitious sustainability policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the work programme seems to be improving in terms of energy and climate policy.
in the coming months, a new global climate change agreement, following on from kyoto, must be reached.
i am very happy to answer the question: if we continue this debate here for the next few years, the americans will be in charge of environmental protection in the world, the chinese will be in charge of consumer protection, and the people of europe will be protected by no one.
poland is taking the helm at a time when europe is facing major challenges in financial, energy and internal affairs.
as an advocate of a sustainable transport policy, i am particularly pleased that your priorities are aligned with those of the transport white paper and that you are working with parliament to find a quick solution to the first railway package.
the report also analyses the necessary steps to be taken in the areas of competitiveness, energy policy, the eu internal market, migration and research, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and taxation, employment and training.
in this context, we have raised key points in the area of financial markets and pointed out that we are not achieving more economic growth by merely trading money, but only by coordinated and sustainable economic activity.
while in the first report we developed current solutions - bank levies, hedge fund certification, financial transaction tax - we are now looking at visions beyond 2013: rules for effective crisis management, deeper integration between states, sustainability in employment and growth policies.
we have a great interest in ensuring that this region is not destabilised, because that would change the balance of power, which would not be in our interests for reasons of foreign policy, security or energy policy.
the fact that the status quo is not sustainable is precisely why there is a danger that one of the sides will leave this path.
i would like to thank you, on behalf of our group, for the years of work you have put into this project and for the enthusiasm and energy with which you are trying to get it done.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's environmental policy.
first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on industry, the colleagues from many other committees who have contributed, in particular the environment committee, the commission and many from civil society, science and industry who have contributed, for their cooperation.
we want a high-level task force to be set up to bring together the different actors - the directorates-general, the joint research centre, the european environment agency, the european external action service and others - in a strategic coherence.
we want a raw materials roadmap to 2050 and an annual progress report to the european parliament, and we are here to advocate that the laws we have in the recycling sector, for example on e-waste, are actually enforced.
as regards sustainability, efforts to reconcile extractive activities with high environmental protection requirements must be continued.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
this is all we are doing and, again, i consider it extremely important - i apologize if i have taken longer than expected, but the subject is of such importance that it deserves a thorough debate - this strong relationship with parliament will be decisive precisely in drawing up a solid strategy that will allow us to give concrete answers to industry without causing environmental damage.
so it is clear that if we want to extract raw materials, then companies must comply with clear social and environmental standards.
economic policy, environmental policy and international trade together with development policy from a single source - this must be the aim of the raw materials strategy!
we also have information from the last meeting of the environment council, where the commissioner presented the raw materials strategy and this report was unanimously supported by the members.
however, on the second item on the agenda, the electronic waste directive, there was no solidarity in setting standards and taking the necessary measures and putting them in this directive.
because if the climate problem is only half as big as we're hearing, then we need highly innovative continents like europe developing cutting-edge technologies.
the fifg directive must be seen as an instrument for protecting the environment.
my family has been protecting the environment for 300 years.
many have spoken of the importance of raw materials for the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy.
the most recent example of consumers realizing what this means was a small lighting company's suggestion that energy-efficient light bulbs are now priced higher because of the difficulties with rare earths.
i was therefore pleased that the directorate-general for the environment and the directorate-general for enterprise were able to reach an agreement.
waste is an old-fashioned word.
it's important to me that we don't waste any time.
frontex is, at its core, a wrong policy towards refugees in europe, who leave their countries not only because of political persecution but also for economic reasons, for reasons of survival, for reasons of hunger, civil wars, climate disasters.
the new frontex mandate does contain real substantial improvements, and for this i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr busuttil, in particular, such as the duty to respect human dignity, the right to non-refoulement, non-discrimination, the prohibition of torture, respect for minor refugees and the protection of data; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
energy is the lifeblood of our economies.
the mines end up paying consumers with far too high energy prices.
we want a better internal energy market in the eu.
europe needs transparent energy markets that are protected against abuse.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is aimed at doing just that, and that is what we are talking about here.
i am particularly pleased that the text which is before us for adoption tomorrow highlights the european dimension of energy trade.
we have to be very careful about the way we deal with the problems of the environment, and we must be very careful about the way we deal with the problems of the environment.
but ultimately energy markets follow different rules.
energy dealers are not banks.
secondly, there is a link with carbon trading.
the regulation gives acer access to existing data sets relating to emissions trading.
i would also like to commend the committee for assisting the commission, as illustrated by the active participation of ms mazzoni and ms auken and the committee secretariat, in the recent stakeholder conference on the implementation of environment law organised by the environment dg.
their participation emphasised to member states the importance that the committee attaches to the good implementation of environmental law and legislation.
i am told that a very promising report by mr iturgaiz on the application of waste legislation is due before the end of this year.
environmental law is a central theme of many petitions.
secondly, with regard to complaints in lengthy environmental procedures, we need instruments to intervene in the planning process and not only at the end of the process or, even worse, when the construction projects are completed.
therefore, the necessary condition to protect economic growth and job creation – economic recovery – is to contain the turbulence and reinforce our economic governance, to create solid foundations for the continuation of the recovery, sustainable growth and job creation.
to my mind it is clear that eurobonds, in whatever form they might be introduced, would have to be accompanied by substantially reinforced fiscal surveillance and economic policy coordination as an essential counterpart, so as to avoid moral hazard and to ensure sustainable public finances.
- i thank the rapporteur for his important work on the transparency and integrity of wholesale energy markets.
i voted for this report and i would like to emphasize at this point how important i think it is that the ljubljana agency should be able to establish close links with the main wholesale energy markets to support it.
i believe that the european companies that now scramble to tap into the country's vast energy reserves have an important responsibility.
there is still a lot to be done here, and it would be appropriate to refocus our overall priority in the fight against organised crime on areas of crime such as corruption and to focus less on the areas in which we have already invested a great deal of energy in recent years.
the world climate summit in copenhagen was attended by all the heads of government, but unfortunately only two at the world hunger summit in rome!
we must reduce the alcohol abuse, lack of physical activity, poor diet and environmental influences which lead to these diseases, and especially smoking!
we must do more where we need to cooperate across borders, as in the environment.
there is the item on 'cross-border coordination of spectrum use in the upper digital dividend' or the question of 'harmonising the patchwork of satellite navigation frequency allocations' which is of the utmost importance for our galileo project, or the item on 'introduction of modern emergency call systems for air traffic' which directly concerns sesar, the research project on air traffic management in the single european sky, or the agenda item on 'emissions from short-range devices', such as remote controls for cars, for medical devices, but which have only a low potential for cross-border interference and are already regulated at european level.
thirdly, and this is the main point, we must establish a political climate of mutual respect and tolerance so that a dictatorship is not replaced by a new system of unfreedom and intolerance.
how can a lasting and sustainable peace solution with israel be possible if there is no self-sustaining economic development in the future state of palestine, which is also the basis for further democratization and social integration of palestine in the whole region and must be - i would like to emphasize this - for the constructive, positive handling of such complex problems as demographic aspects, job creation, aspects of water supply, housing, etc.?
the key question is: what can the european union do to improve trade relations and to boost a mutual investment climate?
i would be very grateful if the commission could comment on this, because our group held a hearing on this very subject a few weeks ago, and i had the impression that the commission had made a great many concrete proposals, so that there are very good starting points, even without a free trade agreement, to improve economic relations and the investment climate.
but since they come from the most diverse directorates-general, such as transport, economy, consumer protection, environment, communications, research and development, internal market and others, they are not always coherent, often uncoordinated, and sometimes contradictory.
this resolution is timely as it properly focuses on all the issues related to dam building and their reinforcement, as well as on the necessary investment and technological adaptation to improve sustainability and minimise social, political and environmental side effects.
at global level, the eu is already fully engaged in fighting climate change and its effects.
in particular, at local level, the eu also promotes projects of sustainable development with small-scale operations more adapted to the local environment.
addressing this problem and other climate change-related issues will require a cross-border approach involving expertise in disaster risk reduction, watershed management, rural development and climate change adaptation.
for instance, overall support for the asian region in the fight against climate change, including water basin management, is being provided as part of the commission’s fast-starting financing through the global climate change alliance in nepal and the new programme which will start in bhutan in 2012. i would like to thank the rapporteur.
in drawing up the report before us today, the members of the committee on development were guided by two premises: firstly, whether the european union is taking sufficient responsibility to ensure that the world's hungry have direct access to food - this can also be extended to clean drinking water and energy supply.
it is clear that climate change, speculation in the stock markets, price volatility, land grabbing, unfair trade policies are first and foremost affecting the poorest of the poor, the refugees, the poor people, the old people, the defenseless women and children.
sustainable smallholder agriculture with low external inputs offers a solution to the fight against hunger, malnutrition and poverty.
we have more environmental disasters, we have terrorist attacks that require a quick response, and i think it is therefore right that the commission will be presenting a legislative proposal here.
because many people still associate trade or globalisation with bad news, such as job relocation, environmental and social dumping.
the other presents an assessment of the global europe strategy adopted by the commission in 2006. one of the key priorities of our new trade strategy is to ensure stronger and sustainable growth in europe by engaging with other strategic growth poles in the world: china, russia, japan, etc.
we are actively pursuing our market access work, in particular in relation to intellectual property rights in third countries, access to key raw materials for eu industry and securing reliable energy supplies.
finally, paragraph 5 of your report in particular emphasizes that trade policy today is about coherence with a whole range of other policies and also about sustainability, and i expressly share your call for a fundamental review of commissioner de gucht's trade strategy.
you speak about sustainable development.
i am very much in favour of that and we make sure that in every free trade agreement which we conclude this sustainable development chapter is included.
there are also a lot of initiatives in europe and elsewhere in the developed world to use those materials less, thus also contributing to the protection of the environment.
let me make three additional comments: i too believe that programmes must of course be controlled in accordance with the target criteria, but that when the target criteria are drawn up care must be taken to ensure that the criteria are not too demanding, that they are simple and straightforward to implement by the countries and that the control bureaucracy is also sustainable and affordable.
in order to identify both positive and negative synergies, we need to coordinate the activities of the directorates-general for transport, economy, environment and consumer protection, communications and internal market.
in poland we will leave our partners in no doubt that the eu’s acknowledgment of their european aspirations and their european choice goes hand in hand with our expectations for their commitment to progressing towards deep and sustainable democracy.
i hope that the warsaw summit will be a success in this matter and that it will be an atmospheric success.
that is why we must unleash the energy of our economy, especially the real economy.
first, those who have fiscal space available must explore it but in a sustainable way.
we must innovate and we must act in a sustainable way.
sustainable jobs will come if we focus on innovation and new technologies, including green technologies.
we have proposed for the next mff (multi-annual financial framework) to create a facility to connect europe in energy, in transport, in digital.
an influential europe, a europe of 27, soon to be joined by croatia, a europe of 28. a europe that continues to lead the way, whether on trade or climate change, as we face the big challenges ahead: from durban to rio+20.
if we want to solve this crisis, we must strengthen the community institutions, because the challenges of the 21st century - environment, currency, migration - cannot be solved by the national vanguard, but only by a courageous joint action by the european community institutions.
and we must also really invest in sustainable economic development, otherwise we will not find the majority of citizens in favour of more europe.
(applause from the centre) i would like to emphasize once again, mr barroso, three months before a delegation from this parliament will travel to durban for the next world climate conference: even though in your speech you spoke of renewable energy and investments in sustainable development, it is truly crazy how forgetful european politics is.
we agreed in 2007 and 2008 that not investing in ambitious climate action will be more expensive than we can currently afford.
we cannot achieve generational equity with our current austerity policies without a clear plan on how to organize sustainable development with a focus on climate change and resource efficiency.
secondly, as regards our criticism of the three reports which are being adopted here today, which deal with stability policy and the management of budget deficits, we are really firmly convinced that we must pursue a sustainable budgetary policy.
if we are not able to provide young people with prospects and if we are not able to say how to achieve the sustainable development that we hear so much about, then we do not think that this is a contribution to generational justice.
as chairman of the environment committee, i have one idea in mind: europe must become a union of stability - also in environmental terms and not just in financial terms.
young people, above all, understand that we, with nine billion people, will have a fight for energy in the middle of the century, a fight for raw materials, a fight for food.
so let us conclude a european pact for ecological stability with energy efficiency, with resource efficiency, with sustainability!
encourage your entire college to promote this eu environmental profile.
if we come to the field of ecology, then we must state: the ecological footprint of humanity on this planet earth is and remains negative.
we have used up energy resources that took millions of years to create.
we really need to try sustainable development again.
economics is good and important, but economics must also serve people and the environment.
an economy that destroys people, destroys the environment, is not a good economy.
so we think: the guiding theme for the next few years, for this decade, must be a sustainable economy, an economy that is low carbon, that is resource efficient.
we see that there is no access to energy everywhere.
two billion people lack access to orderly and regular energy, a huge handicap for development.
we need to shift the burden of taxation from the people to sustainable development.
today, the bulk of the tax burden is on the work that is done, and it is clear: the tax burden must be reduced, from work to natural consumption, to energy consumption.
this sustainability requires a commitment from the local to the global level.
we need to get the private sector to do even more to use the knowledge, the know-how for sustainability.
at the global level, we simply need better governance, as they say, better structure to organize these ecological and sustainability trends.
we will be in durban with a delegation, and we will support that europe really sets a target here, that we are the frontrunners: an agenda 2020 for sustainable development on this planet earth.
indeed, sustainable development is perhaps the most important environmental issue of our time.
twenty years later, we are on the eve of a very important conference, which, on the 20th anniversary of the first one, will try, first, to sum up all that has been done in the field of sustainable development.
i am sure that all of you, and many others who are interested in environmental issues, are asking the same question that i heard from president leinen: have we done everything we can to put sustainable development on the right track?
this is not, of course, the end of the sustainability issue, but the green economy is what - i can repeat after you, mr jo leinen - is absolutely necessary.
earth cannot afford to waste resources like this.
a consumer who knows the value of resources, who knows the value of what the earth gives him, and who knows how to use it in such a way that, first, he saves energy and raw materials, and, second, he knows that he should recycle what he consumes.
we are in favour of the creation of a specialised un agency with a negotiated mandate and the ability to act more effectively in the field of sustainable development, among other things.
that doesn't mean we haven't touched on social issues, which is the third pillar of sustainability.
i am thus fulfilling, in a way, the promise i made when i was on the environment committee hearing that i would try to speak to parliament often, speak to members.
− mr president, thank you for this opportunity to outline the main objectives for the european union for the forthcoming united nations conference on sustainable development: rio+20.
i am also delighted that commissioner hedegaard is able to join me for this debate, particularly as she is a member of the united nations global sustainability panel and as i know that the resolution of this house particularly draws attention to the links with climate issues.
rio+20 is a unique opportunity for the world, and for the european union, to advance its commitments on sustainable development through both themes which will be discussed there: firstly, the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication and secondly, the institutional framework for sustainable development.
on the green economy, we need to be clear that this is a vehicle for delivering on sustainable development.
our objective should be to make sure that rio+20 will give renewed political impetus to sustainable development through an ambitious vision, goals and tangible actions at both international and also national levels.
on the green economy we propose to focus on the efficient and sustainable management of resources and natural capital: water, renewable energy, oceans, sustainable agriculture and fishing, and materials and chemical management.
to monitor progress it will be essential to develop indicators and a globally agreed system of economic, environmental and social accounting.
through such concerned actions the sustainable management of resources in key sectors such as water, energy, oceans and forests can become the thrust of future economic growth and global markets.
access to water, food and energy are some of the basic human needs that must be met to alleviate poverty.
it is also of crucial importance for the sustainable development of developing countries.
last but not least, to reinforce global sustainable development and environmental governance through institutional reform is also essential.
strengthening sustainable development governance could be achieved by the reinforcement of ecosoc in the united nations or the establishment of a council on sustainable development.
these are the potential ways forward and we need to enhance the un environment programme, possibly by upgrading it into a specialised agency.
− mr president, thank you for the opportunity to share some views also from the side of global climate policy and how to position the european union best in the run-up to the rio conference on sustainable development.
firstly, let me share a few points from the work of the global sustainability panel, established by ban ki-moon with the very clear view that we should give some recommendations for the rio+20 conference.
sustainable development as defined by the brundtland commission in 1987 and as agreed in rio in 1992 was never truly realised.
instead we need political leadership to set a new growth agenda: growth, yes – but the important question will be ‘what kind of growth?’ it must be a growth that includes environmental and social concerns at the same level as economic ones.
we need science to guide political decisions on all environmental boundaries.
the focus of the panel’s work has been the interlinked nexus of energy, food and water, with climate change as an overarching theme.
the world community has already been mobilised on climate change.
climate change is still there and is also there in the minds of the people.
so climate change must still be an overarching theme.
to the very relevant points made by mr potočnik i would just add two other points for emphasis, first on energy.
eliminating energy poverty is a precondition to eradicating poverty.
in the panel we therefore consider targets for access to energy, for sustainable energy and for renewable energy sources.
at the same time, the global energy system – supply, transformation, delivery and use – is the dominant contributor to climate change, representing around 60% of total current greenhouse gas emissions.
i am glad to see highlighted in the parliament’s resolution that the transition towards a green economy requires a radical transformation of the energy sector.
part of the reason for the inadequate progress on sustainability is evident: there is a significant market failure that we must correct, namely inadequate pricing.
the negative consequences of the way we exploit nature and the environment are not usually visible or immediate.
i think that with these things – access to sustainable energy and the pricing issue – among a lot of other recommendations in rio, we could deliver something that would result in immediate action when we come back from rio because, with many of the other things, we all know that it will take a very long time before we see them in the real world.
i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the waste is still being disposed of in eastern european countries, and that in other, more developed countries, it is being incinerated and burned in a careless way.
i would like to return to the triangle of social, economic and environmental issues.
when we have nine billion people on this planet in 2050, there is no alternative to sustainability at all.
it should not be a way of plugging financial holes, but a strategic approach to sustainability.
it should invest in green jobs, in the transformation to a green economy, so that it is really a sustainable investment.
we believe that this is a fire-fighting action for competitive losers, also in the sense of a transformation to an ecological economy.
we therefore need much more intervention by the european social fund in future-oriented training, in training, so that redundancies can be prevented and our economy can be transformed into an ecological one and thus become a global competitive winner.
as labour markets have not yet recovered in many member states, we want to extend the period until the end of 2013 - not for firefighting missions, for example, but for sustainability.
− madam president, the commission is aware of the importance of electricity costs for the production of steel, and of the influence that european climate change measures can have on electricity costs.
the commission is also mindful of the present difficult economic situation and of the importance of sustaining the economic recovery with smart measures, taking into account the move towards less polluting as well as less risky sources of energy.
the commission aims to maintain a viable energy-intensive industry in the eu that can compete worldwide on its merits.
state aid can help in this context, if it helps to structurally improve the competitiveness of the industry in a sustainable way, but it cannot serve to guarantee lower electricity costs for certain users in the long term.
under the ets directive, which was part of the 2008 climate change package, member states may grant compensation for co2 costs of electricity for companies at risk of carbon leakage due to these costs – aid for indirect emission costs – in accordance with state aid rules.
financial compensation for indirect emissions can create major distortions in the internal market and may undermine the price signals created by the eu ets if it is not properly targeted to sectors that are at real risk of carbon leakage due to indirect co2 costs.
in its statement submitted to the council during the climate change package negotiations, the commission established the guiding principles for granting financial support for indirect emission costs.
according to these principles, financial compensation should be limited to those electricity-intensive sectors which are unable to pass on the electricity cost increase stemming from co2 to their customers through product prices without significant loss of market share, and would thus move to less carbon-efficient installations outside the eu.
in defining the rules for compensation for ‘indirect’ carbon leakage, the commission will have to pay careful consideration to the effective need and justification for aid in view of the need to preserve the internal market, avoid ‘subsidy races’ between member states at a time of tight budget constraints and ensure equitable conditions for competition between firms in the same sectors.
we all knew that it was a very complicated procedure that we were embarking on, but we also said at the time in the compromise on the emissions trading directive: we will do this with the emissions trading directive on the condition that the industries in europe which are burdened by the fee can experience relief, because otherwise they cannot compete with other parts of the world.
but it's not just electric steel - herbert reul said this - there are a whole range of industries that are at risk of carbon leakage.
the problem is not the emissions trading directive, and certainly not the amended one, because in the existing one, which runs until 2012, we do not have this provision.
now we have explicitly stated in the new emissions trading directive that companies that are at risk of carbon leakage will receive support for direct and indirect emissions.
they are already losing money, or at least not making any profit, because the energy companies have charged a premium for the allowances, even though they were distributed free of charge.
the commission's proposals, which i think are really excellent, are resolutely far-reaching: deciding a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area, through an effective second adjustment programme.
we need a sustainable solution for greece within the eurozone by making greece's debt sustainable.
the investigations should change the political climate and should encourage reconciliation.
i have to say though, that without dialogue, without real dialogue and real reforms, there can be no long-term, sustainable solutions to the challenges that are faced in bahrain.
the ebrd is not only playing a key role in supporting the financial sector and smes, but it also plays a role in energy efficiency and security, nuclear safety and environmental and municipal infrastructure.
in the current post-crisis environment the bank will also better integrate into its priorities important qualitative dimensions of the transition and reform agenda, such as trade integration and regional cooperation, job creation and social sustainability, resource efficiency as well as innovation and greener projects.
only in this way can public procurement provide the impetus for sustainable development and innovation.
this means that we can use public procurement to make development towards sustainable products with a cost-of-living approach, we can encourage more innovative developments.
the commission is also proposing to take greater account of environmental considerations.
this is very important to us, because it is also part of sustainability in our world to ensure that we do not generate the poverty of tomorrow, but also to ensure that reasonable prices are paid in the procurement process and that the lives of workers can be protected.
public procurement must not only be made more flexible but also more sustainable.
public procurement must be used to reduce existing inequalities and to provide environmental incentives: it is about good public service work, about loyalty to collective agreements and the observance and control of social and environmental standards.
i am glad that the report has taken up some of these demands, in particular the anchoring of social and environmental standards and the abolition of the criterion of the lowest bidder.
public procurement is not a market-based instrument to achieve the objectives of the eu2020 strategy, but must be used for the social and environmental development of the european project!
first of all, as mrs sartori said, many of the problems facing small and mediumsized enterprises are still initially the result of the national administrative, bureaucratic and tax environment or ecosystem.
there are a few strategic areas, the new information technologies, biotechnology linked to public health, new energy, materials, transport, where we simply have to ensure european independence, our capacity to be sovereign, not to depend only on technologies or products manufactured by others.
we are on a dangerous path because trust has been betrayed: the trust of markets in the sustainability of investment in europe, and the trust of citizens in governments, the euro area and the european union as a whole to manage effectively.
the greens believe that the focus of eu 2020 decisions must be clearly on sustainability.
the commissioner responsible for the economic and budgetary affairs in the commission in brussels must now be given a new lease of life, he must be given the power to ensure that budgets are solid, sound and sustainable, and that economic policy is developed.
i think it is a lie to use the crisis and the allegedly too high production costs or - as they are now called - environmental constraints as a reason for the mass redundancies.
every small promoter of european projects signs contracts on the sustainability of their projects.
new skills for new jobs that sounds innovative, that sounds like an ecological modernisation of the european economy.
the commission is unfortunately not taking the lead in exploiting the job potential of an ecological economy.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new environmental policy.
a clear signal that we stand for equality and a sustainable future for our society.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the council has, as usual, cut the commission's appropriations, even though they are not very large, for the environment and climate, public health, food and feed safety.
we are also pleased that the package negotiated included seven pilot projects and three preparatory actions from the environment committee.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− mr president, in the committee on industry, research and energy there has been a shared conviction from all sides that the budget priorities must reflect the strategic goals of eu 2020 and we are glad that the committee on budgets has also supported this position.
first, the need for fp7 to be fully implemented in order to stimulate competitiveness and sustainability and help address the major societal challenges of our time.
number three, we should see to the priorities in the energy policy and we are grateful to the budgets committee that they have helped us in sticking to this priority.
this is why it is right to take the eu 2020 strategy so seriously and invest more in targeted areas: low-carbon economy, sustainability in new products and technologies, energy saving and energy efficiency, because it is on such new products and also new jobs, which depend on such a new competitiveness economic policy, that success in the internal market and our global competitiveness depend.
unemployment is not only a loss of opportunity, but also a waste of intellectual competence and resources for our society.
chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety here in the european parliament, in the chamber of the european union, is tabled a motion for a resolution to draw attention to the dangers to public health posed by antibiotic resistance in bacteria and to call on the commission and the member states to draw up an action programme to combat this danger to public health.
we understand and respect the fact that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is also responsible for health, naturally has human health first and foremost in mind.
a lot of abuse happens in real life, in the immediate environment of our children.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that the report by mrs angelilli has been able to bring about a sustainable and effective policy, and i would like to thank her for that.
however, we must not lose sight of the fact that the vast majority of crimes still take place in the closest social environment of children.
it must be about identifying the perpetrators, catching the beneficiaries and protecting children in europe and elsewhere in a sustainable way.
the first front: a sustainable solution for the greek debt.
the fourth front: further fiscal consolidation by those member states which need more sustainable public finances and more structural reforms.
on top of this, we have had to work since july in a different economic climate.
we all work in the same direction: sound budgets, lower debts, sustainable growth.
it will give energy to our joint efforts – the efforts of all the institutions – and it will do so while upholding the principle of prioritising the community method.
financial stability, economic governance: all this is of paramount importance, but we should never forget that our goal is to promote inclusive and sustainable growth and employment.
the prospects for a stimulus programme for the sustainable development of the european economy, especially in the deficit countries, are so far very slim.
sustainability can only be achieved through greater research into hazards and risks.
safety with emts, noise reduction the aim is to get more freight and more passengers on the railway so that we can work here in an environmentally sound way with little energy and good distribution.
we greens are in favour of opening up the networks, not for ideological reasons, but for ecological reasons.
we need to shift traffic from road to rail to stop climate change and save life on this planet.
we want efficiency as soon as possible to save the climate!
we don't have time to waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of national authorities for the protection of the environment.
i am therefore confident that we will also succeed together in sending the european commission another strong signal from the european parliament for a sustainable and future-oriented framework for public services at the vote in plenary tomorrow.
we need minimum social and environmental standards.
with winter coming, we must not allow the rise in energy prices to force people onto the streets, evict them and freeze them to death.
does this mean that a region which has already made a great deal of energy efficiency is not obliged to do so, but could invest in research facilities, and this could then be set out in the partnership agreement?
question to mr hahn: i welcome, also on behalf of the greens, that you have the percentages for the low-carbon economy, but what about mainstreaming for climate protection?
but the money that is released from this ceiling remains in the respective member state, so the member state that has large farms is not affected from a budgetary point of view because the money remains in the member state and goes into the rural development programme under which the member state can finance large enterprises, small enterprises, agri-environmental measures, investments, etc.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the community's activities is not undermined.
but here too, with the legislative proposals now on your table and that of the council, an attempt has been made to simplify and clarify the ecological conditionality measures applicable to farmers.
the number of measures has also been reduced by eliminating those which were not of environmental or economic relevance and interest but had a higher administrative cost.
the bee is important to us humans and our ecosystem.
i have heard of you for a long time now in the energy and climate sectors.
i have already said in the small group the other day that green growth in agriculture, for example, does not mean what the good commissioner cioloş wants, but that means more concentration, more large farms, fewer farms, fewer jobs, more mass livestock farming, more monocultures, less value added for individual farms, more environmental pollution, more dependence on imports!
the commission's contribution to the 2012 convention must not be a disempowerment of citizens and their parliaments, but a more democratic europe, focused on peace, ecological change and social progress.
the european parliament is tabled this week with a resolution containing comprehensive proposals for global, international climate protection.
mr president, i know your commitment to climate action and it would be great if you could come to durban with the parliament's delegation.
but we have a strong delegation in durban to lobby and pressure to make sure that climate action does not come to a standstill, but that it does make progress.
i can tell you this: the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, with the participation of the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy, has reached a broad consensus on what should be done now.
we don't have time to waste.
the extreme weather events in this one year, 2011, the melting of glaciers and icebergs, tell us: climate change is in full swing.
that is why we need substantial progress at cop 17. the aim of the parliament remains to make the unfccc a legally binding instrument for all states - a global climate treaty, if you will.
now, that's not going to be achievable in durban, but we need more cornerstones, more mosaic stones on the way to a global climate treaty.
i am referring to the mechanism for the transfer of technology from the rich north to the poor south, or the institutions for the necessary climate change adaptation measures.
in durban, everyone agreed that we want to stabilize global warming at 2 degrees celsius, but the commitments on the table are not enough.
we in parliament believe that 2015 is the year of peak greenhouse gas emissions, which is very ambitious.
and by 2050, we know that we're going to have to reduce about 50 percent of the greenhouse gases -- a huge task.
i think with good climate diplomacy, we can get a critical mass where it's worth doing kyoto ii and, in parallel, pushing, above all, the emerging countries, but also the united states, to a roadmap where everyone comes together.
here's the idea that then in 2015, we can have this kind of sweeping climate agreement.
i want to mention what we know: the financing of international climate action - we hope that the green climate fund can be established in durban - that we know who manages it, who can join, how it works and also that we get a clarification on the sources of funding.
parliament has several proposals on this: the revenue from emissions trading, levies on aviation and shipping or even the financial transaction tax, if it were to come.
and the message from durban must be: climate change cannot control humanity, but humanity must have the will to control climate change.
we're less than two weeks away from the durban climate summit.
this year's conference has a special role to play in the context of climate action, and poland, as the country holding the presidency of the council of the european union, is taking this issue very seriously.
we know that the kyoto protocol's transition period ends in 2012. our ambitious task at the durban climate summit will be to ensure that the world continues to want to talk about climate policy and that some legally binding mechanism that guarantees climate action is provided.
we had a difficult discussion in the council at the october environment council, but we managed to work out a single european union voice on how we intend to conduct these negotiations and how we intend to make progress in the negotiations.
as jo leinen has already said, the kyoto protocol is currently the only mechanism that binds countries on climate, so we need to keep the positive language around the kyoto protocol, to use the good and bad experiences of the protocol to talk about a legally binding new commitment under the convention.
and that's our second goal, the kyoto protocol, as a kind of transition to a new, legally binding commitment, where all countries agree to join this mechanism and take a diverse but shared responsibility for climate issues.
this is the question of the implementation of the cancún agreement, the question of further negotiations on technology transfer, on adaptation to climate change, which is particularly important for developing countries, the question of mitigation, technology transfer and financing.
as the presidency, we are also taking a number of actions to put pressure on the world's major economies to join and agree to this european union proposal for further action to reach a global agreement on climate change.
we are discussing a lot of technicalities, but are we actually reducing emissions?
up till now, the kyoto family has accounted for around one-third of global emissions.
there is the possibility that after durban the second commitment period family will account for 15% of global emissions.
we are open to taking a second commitment period, but because what matters to us is the climate, and because what matters to us are real reductions, we have also attached a condition.
we say there are some things with the environmental integrity, aaus and lulucf, but we also need to have this put into a context where, together with a second commitment period, we secure the bridge to the future; that others accept we must agree on a roadmap where other major emitters engage in a broader framework and where kyoto rules are improved to ensure the environmental integrity.
the problem is those who are not moving their position in order to deliver what must be delivered if durban is not just to be about process, but about really achieving something that can improve the climate.
but, commissioner, as you know, i have been here for some time, and above all at the climate conferences we have held hands here and said that we want to go somewhere together and achieve a goal, but in retrospect we did not quite understand what happened in copenhagen or cancún.
i now believe that the global resource scarcity is at least as great as the climate of carbon dioxide.
the united states of america and its environmental and climate policies are not really something to be happy about.
if we in europe do a proper air traffic emissions trading system, then the americans will have no choice but to build the necessary turbines, which will then be sold worldwide.
the chairman of the chinese environmental committee told me, "karl-heinz, we are the largest committee in the world.
if we can do what you have done in many other legislations, that is, we can get to renewable energy and sustainability, force industry to buy cutting-edge technologies, then we will - i am sure - get an extra push into this policy.
it is also not getting us any closer to the goal of reducing co2 emissions.
on the other hand, the expansion of rail transport brings, of course, not only advantages, but also new challenges and disadvantages, and noise pollution is clearly one of them.
we have also made an important decision here, namely that we want to combat noise pollution effectively with new railway lines and new technology.
climate change has been one of the central political issues for some years now.
the need to reduce co2 emissions is clear.
firstly, i think that the focus on climate change is essentially solely on the co2 metric, which is completely wrong.
climate change has no single cause and cannot be tackled by simply reducing co2.
- i have deliberately and purposefully rejected the resolution on the durban climate conference, because the fantasies are continuing as before.
a world climate conference requires all polluters, including those who have so far refused to participate, to come together and agree on binding targets.
we will start by reviewing relevant results of the g20 summit, and will discuss our respective contributions to a sustainable and balanced global recovery.
financial regulation reform remains at the core of sustainable and balanced growth.
as outlined in the resolution, regulatory coherence is a key objective of our cooperation in the tec, especially in new areas such as nanotechnology and cloud computing, or promising economic sectors such as electric vehicles, in order to create a favourable environment for growth and jobs.
we share common values and responsibilities for tackling global challenges on a variety of issues, be it innovation and environmental challenges, energy security or access to raw materials.
that is why we need to think together about how the transatlantic marketplace should look in 2020. the summit will also address the global challenges we are facing together: climate change will be in focus again in the run-up to the 17th conference of parties in durban.
there is deep concern amongst our citizens about the impact of global climate change.
durban will be an important opportunity to make progress on shaping multilateral action to combat climate change.
one cannot talk about climate change, the economy or foreign policy without talking about energy.
with a growing global population and a finite supply of fossil fuels, energy security is a vital concern.
given the supply shocks of the past year and the fragility of economic recovery, we will engage the us further on a joint agenda of work with a view both to increasing our energy interdependence and to promoting green growth and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
however, the current climate of austerity, where we have to do more with less, underlines more than ever the need for complementarity and increased attention to aid effectiveness.
we will also seek to build on existing work in the eu-us development dialogue on food security, climate change and the mdgs, especially health.
it is about the middle east and the quartet, iran, energy security and many other issues.
the need for additional sustainable growth on both sides of the atlantic is undeniable, but there is little evidence that it will be tackled vigorously.
and on climate change, as a final example, you said one sentence: we should put the projects in durban into operation.
an expanded tld would also be the appropriate forum to address further differences between the eu and the us, whether it be in the subject matter you address in peace policy, climate policy or human rights.
i also think it's not very encouraging that americans still haven't managed to reform their medicare, medicaid and social security systems in a sustainable way.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their national policies, including those relating to the environment, and that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their national policies.
industry, research and alternative energy production, and above all environmental protection, are also areas inextricably linked to the classic aspects of maritime policy.
in this context, i very much welcome the fact that greater attention has been paid to environmental protection and to the conservation of species and the sustainable use of marine resources, an aspect which, i must say, could have been made even more clear in the commission's proposal.
by sea transport 95% of transport takes place by sea and of course also by fisheries, research or offshore energy.
i was a little shocked to see that even the european union estimates that we are committed to sustainable fishing, but at the same time, some 500 000 tonnes of illegal fish are being imported into the european union itself.
we believe that this is not an atmosphere and an environment in which truly democratic elections can take place.
we wanted to allocate up to eur 348 million for cooperation in science, academic exchange - including erasmus mundus - culture, environmental protection and renewable energy, and stimulation of bilateral trade relations.
the funds will be focused on partner countries that comply with the ilo's core labour standards and that are involved in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in general, the commission is required to focus cooperation in the energy sector on cooperation in the field of renewable energies.
the legislators are putting the regulation in the context of other key eu policy objectives, in particular coherence with development policy, enforcement of international labour standards and combating climate change.
we are going to review the directives on public procurement in order to make the lives of public and private operators easier and increase the integration of social and environmental issues and issues relating to project innovation.
we must dismantle unsustainable policies, especially at european level, unsustainable policies in agriculture and in structural funds policy, and instead build sustainable policies that promote competition.
we heard a dramatic figure for the year 2010: co2 emissions worldwide increased by 6%!
there are important pilot projects for innovation or sustainable financing of digital cultural markets.
it is above all an investment budget which we must use, with all the necessary austerity, to create new targeted incentives for new sustainable products, new sustainable technologies, new jobs, so that we can be more successful in the internal market, but also in the world market.
we in the committee on fisheries agree that this agreement is not environmentally sustainable because it contributes to overfishing.
this is a sound foundation for sustainable medium- to long-term fiscal policies and a strong signal to the markets that european governments are serious about their new ‘stability culture’.
of course, this was not the only subject at the european council: some other important issues were also discussed last week, such as the annual growth survey, enlargement and energy.
i hope parliament and the member states will support this line and work together for the deepening of the internal market, including the rapid implementation of existing commitments on services, energy, innovation, the digital agenda and free trade agreements, and for swift adoption of pending proposals to enhance growth, such as support for smes, better regulation, tax initiatives, fast-tracking proposals, especially those that extend the benefits of the single market, and last but not least, targeted investment at european union level, including through project bonds.
this is why i welcome the conclusions from durban, with all major emitters agreeing for the first time to have a new comprehensive and binding legal instrument which will include limits on co2 emissions.
as often as i hear your song, mr barroso, about sustainable development in the european union - and i've heard it since the days of the lisbon strategy - i ask myself: where and how is this going to happen?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
fisheries must be environmentally friendly and sustainable!
i should like to begin by thanking mr lisek for a good report which, as elmar brok has already said, seeks to take advantage of the fact that money is running out in all national budgets and that the waste of money on armaments cannot simply continue as before.
if nine of the 31 amendments tabled in the committee on the environment are included in this so-called compromise and four of them are technical measures, then the committee cannot be thanked.
as a consequence of the limitations in the regulation, the costs of phosphates removal in waste water treatment plants will be reduced as fewer chemicals will be needed to remove phosphates.
in addition, it will improve the quality of surface water in the union in regions where tertiary treatment in waste water treatment plants is not, or is not yet, installed.
the parliament and the council also decided to introduce the phosphate limitations in consumer automatic dishwasher detergents as of 1 january 2017. the commission is expected to present a report to examine whether the limit value and the date of application of the limitations for dishwasher detergents are technically and economically feasible for all operators in the european union and do not have negative effects on consumers or the environment.
other countries have managed to control the phosphate pollution of their waters by means of good sewage treatment plants.
however, in the interests of a sustainable economy, phosphates must be phased out wherever possible.
without investment in education, health and energy efficiency, we can exploit our workers to the bone, but we will not write economic success stories.
i think that the report, the proposal or the regulation is trying to find a good compromise here, namely, on the one hand, to remove these phosphates permanently and definitively from the environment, if that is what is wanted.
we all know that this is a very dangerous environmental poison; that is why phosphates are no longer used in household detergents.
that's why i agreed to the proposal and i hope that there will be further discussions, that we can use our environment and our detergents in a more sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
this is the question of energy policy, renewable resources, for example in ukraine, solar energy, for example in the mediterranean.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of ionizing radiation.
the oslo-paris commission report on oil pollution shows that in 2008 there were over 500 oil spills on oil and gas platforms in the north sea.
it is therefore right that the directorate-general for energy has put forward a package of legislation to improve the regulation of oil platforms.
when the member states say today that we are ready to extend the mandate of emsa, and say that emsa is now not only responsible for shipwrecks but also for cleaning up oil pollution caused by oil rigs, that may be a minimum of common sense, but it is certainly not a major breakthrough.
it is very crucial that emsa also gets good cooperation from the member states there, when it comes to towing capacity, oil-fighting vessels, inspection vessels and inspection aircraft, to identify environmental cleaners, then record the data in safeseanet and actually do some very efficient core work here.
it is not only important for shipping but also for energy production.
transport is still a burden for some, an evil that unfortunately consumes resources and produces noise and environmental damage.
i very much welcome the pursuit of eu-wide standards for safety aspects, for people and goods, supply chains, information and communication systems, energy and environmental aspects, but also for working and social conditions.
such vehicles shall be equipped with the most important environmental and safety-related vehicle assistance systems.
without a change in mobility, we will not be able to combat climate change, and then our children and their children will have no prospect of living here.
since 1990, we have reduced co2 emissions by 34% in industry, 17% in the energy sector and 14% in households.
emissions from transport increased by 30% over the same period.
i am very pleased that we have managed to reach a compromise that we want to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, on the basis of 1990 and not 2008, as the commission wanted, and then only by 2030. we've made that worse.
we don't have time to waste.
there are good approaches, and i refer to the legislative proposals for clean urban transport by 2015. as far as environmental protection is concerned, i would like to stress once again that it is extremely important to continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not harmed.
the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
they're supposed to be sustainable.
we must ensure that this aid is targeted, effective and sustainable and that the funds provided by the european union are protected against corruption and waste.
the second is that we have another priority, which concerns the energy sector, where consumer protection also plays a major role.
we want the european commission to take a closer look at the oligopolistic structures in the energy sector, because at this point consumers often have the impression that they have few rights vis-à-vis the energy supplier and the structure of energy supply in europe still does not have the competitive character we want.
i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to find a solution quickly that will also help to stabilise the banking sector so that it can meet the challenges of the international environment.
however, the environment has become more difficult in the face of the global financial crisis.
it is very important to pay attention to the problems of competition in certain economic sectors, and i fully agree with the ones you have mentioned: energy, telecommunications, railways, air transport, the food sector, services and financial markets.
i have to say, madam president, compared to 2005, freight traffic will increase by 40% and passenger traffic by 34% by 2030. there is a need to efficiently combine different modes of transport across borders in order to meet the requirements of safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport.
− in the report on the state of implementation of the eu strategy for central asia, which we voted on today, i, as epp shadow rapporteur, explicitly advocated that strategic policy areas such as environmental protection, water and energy be tackled jointly and multilaterally.
it is crucial - and this is what we must concentrate on - that we think in partnership about what we want to offer these countries in terms of political education, the development of vocational training, the promotion of smes, a common energy policy, for example in the field of solar energy and other renewable energies, and cooperation between smes.