when we clear tropical forests, we reduce biodiversity in the area, contribute to the extinction of many endangered species and change the climate.
let us hope that the question of flexibility and financing of the iter fusion energy project will soon be settled.
we also recognise that agriculture is a strategic sector for food quality, public health, sustainable and economic growth.
it is not only in italy that there are major waste problems.
you have this wonderful country, and it is drowning in waste, and many conflicts are arising, and the situation has almost only got worse.
we cannot solve the waste problem unless we have the citizens with us, and there are many citizens who can do a really good job in italy.
it is partly the large industry in northern italy that is profiting greatly from being able to dispose of waste in a cheap way instead of paying what it costs.
when we asked him why the catastrophic waste situation in campania had not yet been resolved, he replied that it was a political problem!
it is because of a lack of political will that italy has failed to fulfil its obligations under the waste directive.
and it is because of a lack of political will that the eu had still not received a waste sorting plan at the turn of the year.
but we also believe that, before that happens, we must reject outright the idea that european taxpayers should give even one euro more to the waste adventure in italy!
and yes, global warming and the melting of the arctic are opening up a lot of new opportunities: natural resources, oil, fish, shipping, and so on.
this report has fine words about climate concerns and environmental considerations, but it is really about the eu's hunt for resources in the arctic.
the audit report delivered in november 2010 expressed the auditors’ overall conclusion that the global fund’s internal control environment respects the principles of division of responsibilities and of management control of country and regional financial reporting.
in addition, the agreement can lead to better environmental and labour conditions in korea - this is worth noting and welcoming.
the agreement opens up the possibility of europe becoming even better in certain service sectors where we are highly competitive: telecommunications, the environment, shipping, financial and legal services.
i would like to ask the commission whether the protection of the marine environment is to be made a cornerstone of this strategy?
and will the commission focus on preventing and combating the problem of plastic waste in the oceans?
i am thinking of the disruption of wildlife and the pollution of the northernmost atlantic ocean.
i think that if we are to reduce the amount of waste in the sea, it is necessary to include the great rivers and lakes of europe.
we will all benefit, whether in terms of social and economic cohesion, sustainable growth or competitiveness.
- i voted against the report because it does not guarantee that a financial transaction tax will be used for what a real tobin tax should be used for: developing countries and investments in the climate.
i also support the positive elements of the report, such as the fight against tax fraud, the polluter pays principle and the call for energy efficiency.
in fact, we have been able to use unused agricultural funds almost as a way of financing new initiatives such as the recovery package's energy investments and the galileo satellite navigation system.
i do not agree with the greens that we should not find money for the iter fusion energy system.
we need to raise money in 2012 for the fusion energy project.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it should always be up to each member state to determine its own energy mix.
as a starting point, i am very much in favour of sustainable fisheries agreements.
sustainability for the fish stocks, for the fishermen, for the local population and finally sustainability for the eu fishermen who use the agreements.
unfortunately, this agreement with the comoros is not as sustainable as i would like it to be, as it does not contain any final ceiling on the amount of fish that eu vessels may fish.
i think he made a very important point when he said that there are some bottlenecks, that is to say, some critical points that we have to accept and that we have to deal with if we want to move forward, including social and environmental ones.
this must also be achieved by introducing an ecological footprint on goods and by finding some financial instruments which can help to make these green investments possible, including eurobonds, which are to cover our large investment needs in the context of the green transition.
i therefore ask the fundamental question whether it really makes sense to continue to waste billions of euros on these european parties.
and then there's the carbon-quota fraud and all that.
i am glad that so many colleagues are aware that our waste does not just disappear by itself, but unfortunately often ends up in the world where no one takes proper care of it.
even worse is the situation of the african children who sit on the ground and separate our electronic waste down to its individual components.
but something must be done, because 70 million tonnes of hazardous waste a year - and the trend is increasing - is no small matter.
i therefore ask, in addition to the written questions already received by the commission, whether the commission intends to use special port areas for the discharge of hazardous waste in selected ports.
would the commission like to do public relations work to get eu citizens to deliver their hazardous waste to specific places in the member states?
it is extremely important that we make our citizens aware of the problem, because without their help in the fight against hazardous waste management we are going nowhere.
european forests have many social, economic and environmental functions and they undoubtedly make an important contribution to solving the climate crisis - indeed, a very effective way of doing so - and to achieving the eu's 2020 targets.
the fact is that politicians are not supposed to be businessmen, but they are supposed to help create the environment in which european businesses can grow.
leading up to the discussions today are the months of painstaking work by mr audy, the shadow rapporteurs, the other members of the committee on industry, research and energy, as well as the members of the committee on budgets.
as the development of renewable energy is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, i expect that there will definitely be a higher budget for this area in the next period, also from the regional policy title.
i am sure that, in cooperation with mr oettinger, there will also be investment in the infrastructure of the transeuropean energy networks.
we are strengthening the 2020 strategy to equip the eu to meet the challenges of competition from china and other emerging economies and to shift to more renewable energy.
that is why i also think it is necessary that we have this possibility of a 5% increase, so that there is room for new policy areas and the opportunity to meet new challenges and to invest in transport, energy and research - things that the eu must invest in in the future.
that is why we must also reduce the number of programmes and bureaucracies and focus on the major challenges: climate change, energy and food - in short, creating jobs through our research.
i will make a great effort to ensure that in the 2012 budget the efforts to give priority to the energy sector do not fail.
we must make sure that money is allocated to the so-called set plan for renewable energy.
secondly, there is the problem of the iter fusion energy project, where the commission is putting a lot of pressure on us.
but to avoid pollution, traffic jams and time-consuming transport, we need to find new constellations such as free park-and-ride combined with flexible monthly passes for multiple modes of transport such as bicycles, motorcycles, car-sharing, metro, electric buses, subways, etc.
over the last year and a half, the european parliament has been presented with numerous reports, energy action plans and energy strategies.
the major challenges in the energy sector are well known: climate and security of supply.
our energy infrastructure is outdated and not built for green energy supply with many different energy sources.
with an unchanged budgetary framework, the commission has found the money for a significant investment in research, training and investment in energy and transport networks, and this should be a cause for excitement, also in my own country, denmark, where a cross-border interconnection of electricity networks will make wind power more profitable, and where we would like to see a large eu contribution to the fehmarn link, to be built precisely in the coming period 2014-2020. the money has been found through a cut in direct agricultural aid.
energy is a commodity traded on a par with all other commodities.
nevertheless, the energy market has some specific characteristics which we must take into account.
we are still in the process of developing a competitive internal energy market.
we must have a well-functioning, transparent internal market in energy services so that consumers can benefit from not only the most energy-friendly, but also the most affordable energy being delivered to households.
fortunately, the fight against climate change is still high on the political agenda, even though we have an economic crisis, and that is a good thing.
i also think that we in the european parliament can be quite proud that we have managed, by a very large majority, to put forward some very ambitious plans in connection with our energy strategy and for that matter also in the field of energy efficiency, which is one of the best ways of achieving lower co2 emissions.
the problem is that we may have forgotten to focus on other greenhouse gases that also affect the climate.
so it is good that we now ourselves recognise that a wider focus is needed and it is also good that we are now being asked to encourage the commission to integrate other greenhouse gases into climate policy so that we can have a broad and effective response.
the doha round sets out to bring about a general review of the wto's trade rules: better global governance, sustainable development and better conditions for international trade and investment.
a comprehensive, coordinated european crisis plan is needed to ensure sustainability, sustainability and social justice.
i have heard a senior official from the environment dg who would not even give access to the infringement procedures once the case was closed because he thought it could damage confidence in the system.
there is no limit to the good that is offered to citizens here: free movement, social market economy, progress, high competitiveness, full employment, good environmental quality, etc., etc.
– mr president, the international energy agency just recently published a report saying that the developed countries of this world, the industrialised countries, have about five years to change fundamentally the way they produce energy and the way they consume energy in order for us to stay below a two-degree increase in temperature.
we think that the kyoto protocol is a good idea and that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol could be a way forward but only if, first of all, it has environmental integrity and, second, it is combined with a roadmap for emerging economies especially for when they will start to reduce their emissions.
we also need to discuss adaptation, because even if we do succeed in having the mitigation targets we want, we know that the world will experience climate change and we know that the poorest countries of this world, in particular, will have difficulties adapting to this.
tomorrow the european parliament will vote on an ambitious resolution on the durban climate conference.
the eu is currently responsible for about 11% of global emissions.
this is where a controversial fiscal policy is being brought into the climate debate.
this is bad for fish stocks and makes it difficult to assess their sustainability.
this is one of the biggest threats to sustainable fishing in the future.
i would also like to express my great satisfaction with the result we have achieved, where parliament was able to raise the money needed for palestine, was able to get the necessary research appropriations and was also able to secure funding for iter for next year - the iter fusion energy project - without having to make any cuts in the research framework programme, which is too large.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
this requires both a larger eu budget than the current one and a radical reallocation of the eu budget, shifting the focus from massive agricultural subsidies and investment in unsustainable energy solutions to green growth and job creation.
the decision also focuses too little on the economic and environmental shortcomings of the provisional protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement.
a new and improved protocol must contain clear improvements in economic and environmental aspects.
we therefore believe that a decision calling on the european commission to work towards a better protocol should draw the commission's attention to the environmental and economic shortcomings of the previous protocol.