firstly, on whether policies supporting the status quo in countries with democratic freedoms really contribute to stability, in this case, in our immediate environment.
the european union can under no circumstances compromise its commitments to sustainable development.
however, we are seeing how, under this exemption and in order to give asian investors a foot in the door, papua new guinea has amended its legislation so that it is not possible to lodge complaints for environmental damage and has put in place investment regulations that allow the hiring of local workers and cheap asian labour with the worst job guarantees imaginable.
it is estimated that tuna production will eventually rise to 400 000 tonnes per year, destined for the european market, which currently consumes a total of some 710 000. the impact will be very serious, as tuna from papua new guinea is priced one third cheaper than tuna from europe, due to low wages and non-existent environmental standards.
and we also want to know whether the health measures are being complied with - something very important for the products that are being imported - , the sustainable management of fisheries, the fight against illegal fishing - a fundamental element - and a very important element that would show us how these third countries that may be based in papua new guinea work, such as compliance with international labour standards.
mr president, first of all i would like to make it clear that i am in favour of closer trade links between the european union and papua new guinea which will promote the development of this region, but which will also promote sustainable development.
i am absolutely against a clause in it which i consider unfair: the exemption from the rules of origin, because it not only jeopardizes the sustainable development of papua new guinea but, as we have heard here, it jeopardizes an entire european industry, the canning industry.
i would therefore ask the commission to take account of the dramatic consequences that this concession will have, firstly, on the european canning industry and, secondly, on the sustainability of the environment and the natural resources of papua new guinea, and the very negative precedent it sets for future negotiations.
i would not ratify this agreement without the inclusion of some clauses concerning the labour market, the social dimension and the environment in morocco.
the verts/ale group’s major concerns have been to make sure, inter alia, that (i) procedures should be transparent (in particular the standardisation bodies should not be monopolised by representatives of the major industries, and the concerns of smes or other stakeholders should be taken into account); (ii) construction requirements and procedures should be able to boost innovative and more ecological patterns; (iii) special procedures for ‘micro-enterprises’ should not allow the industry to circumvent the requirements or procedures.
mr president, mr president of the commission, the commission is promoting innovation in various areas of our energy system.
i can name second-generation biofuels, fusion, fourth-generation fission, smart grids, renewable energy in general, energy efficiency in general, hydrogen use in fuel cells, co2 capture, transport and storage, electric vehicles, and the list could go on.
on the other hand, interoperability is also very important for increasing equality in health care and improving the sustainability of health care.
you can count on me to pursue this challenge with all my determination and energy.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the extraordinary joint debate on the report by mrs marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias (2010/2084 (ini)) (a7-0366/2010), and the oral question to the commission on asthma inhalers by mrs erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0182/2010 b7-0666/2010).
madam president, the spanish socialist delegation voted in favour, as did the rest of our group, but i would not leave this house without expressing my concern that the question of organ transplants should be included in this directive, contrary to the view of the committee on the environment and as a result of the council's continuing determination to include transplants in this directive.
underlined in the text are the risk of large-scale exploitation of forests, and both direct and indirect impact of commercial logging on wildlife, biodiversity, deforestation, degradation of forests, and local populations and indigenous people.
is entirely at odds with sustainable development needs.
other amendments dealt with kosovo, gender equality, minority rights, civil society, public transport, environment and relations with bosnia.
those amendments dealt with kosovo, gender equality, minority rights, civil society, public transport, environment and relations with bosnia the one rejected will be re-tabled as it was lost on a tied vote (27 to 27).
these threats pose a serious challenge to development work and prospects, as it has become too risky for those engaged in development to continue their operations in this environment.
it also expressed concern about smes and energy, welcomed the recommendations of the high level group on the dairy sector, which considered that the strengthening of the bargaining power of producers and new contractual relations should be compatible with competition policy, and called on the commission to take a legislative initiative to facilitate the exercise of individual or collective claims to obtain effective compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law, avoiding the excesses of the us system.
the next item is the report by mr michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a sustainable eu policy for the high north (2009/2214 (ini)) (a7-0377/2010).
this framework agreement must also be a substantive tool to promote the rule of law, respect for human rights, protection of migrants and refugees and sustainable development in libya.
− we have supported globally the proposed report, althought we lost some important votes regarding ecological taxation.
climate change and the resulting melting are causing shifts in the region and in the approach of arctic states, which have been quick to define strategies to address the possibilities that are emerging.
i have supported this report because it highlights the eu's responsibility for the climate change process which is changing the face of the arctic, and the need for action to mitigate it.
at the same time, the report recognises the eu's legitimate interest in playing a role in the new scenario and highlights the imperative to seize the opportunities that arise by supporting the sustainable development of the area by its inhabitants, especially indigenous communities.
− the arctic region is attracting more and more attention, due to the effects of climate change, the main trigger of developments.
thus europe does not only bear a certain responsibility, being one of the main contributors to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but also has a particular interest in the arctic, since it will have to deal with the consequences of the changes taking place there from environmental and climate-change issues to the geopolitics of shipping routes and security of supply of resources.
mr president, after many years of work, we now have a perfectly clear idea of the objectives of energy policy in europe: the construction of an internal market, security of supply, the promotion of renewable energies, energy efficiency.
in view of these objectives, which we have set ourselves, the document on which the european council is going to work is very unambitious; this is normal, because if the impetus for a common european energy policy is to come from the heads of state and government, we can wait and despair.
and yet we are playing a very big game, because today europe's backbone is energy policy.
mr president, yesterday our group held an alternative energy summit in which we called for 20% binding energy efficiency and 30% renewables by 2020. i would like to emphasize one point without which all the above is not possible: infrastructure.
the renewable energy deployment targets call for a more networked, smarter and, above all, more interconnected network in order to be able to manage its variability properly.
let's support our indigenous energy, which is a safe resource.
the community producers belong to the outermost regions which have enormous difficulties in producing bananas of 'very good quality, by the way' and which have nothing in common with the production of bananas in other third countries, either in terms of costs, labour, environmental or plant health guarantees or any other aspect.
we are, however, in favour of a separate invoice for the cost of recycling and treatment of this type of waste.
mr president, we have voted and i have voted in favour of this initiative on electronic waste.
i have asked the council and the commission several questions this week to see whether some companies are actually making this deliberate decision and whether the amount of electronic waste produced at european level and also at world level could be avoided by combating this type of practice.
the european union must not only commit itself to an impact study of these agreements, but above all must change its legislation accordingly to promote sustainable production.
- i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast) because i am in favour of implementing measures to make progress on the sustainability of the production and consumption of electrical and electronic equipment.
although this measure is in some ways a patch on the exorbitant consumption parameters on which the destructive capitalist production model and the incessant production based on the creation of false needs are based, i think it is good to encourage the reuse, recycling and recovery of this waste.
i also share the need to prevent the generation of waste and to recover strategic raw materials.
− today’s vote is a welcome step to tightening up eu rules on electric waste, notably ensuring more effective collection and treatment of weee.
by 2016, at least 85% of the waste that is arising annually should be collected, and all of it properly treated.
another important improvement is the provision to ensure that retailers will now be obliged to take back very small waste appliances, such as light bulbs or mobile phones, regardless of whether a new appliance is sold at the same time.
increasing the collection of these appliances and raising consumer awareness about this should reduce the amount of these small appliances ending up in the general waste stream and thereby escaping adequate treatment.
− with this resolution, the ep firstly underlines the fact that only a vaccination programme involving a large-scale vaccination campaign could have a positive impact in terms of achieving mdg 6 after 2015, and in particular the eradication of tuberculosis by 2050. secondly, it considers vaccines to be an essential means of combating tuberculosis, together with better – reliable, low-cost and soundly based – testing, as well as more effective diagnosis and treatment, and that this implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the urgent need to find a sustainable solution that respects eu legislation, implementing a waste management plan with respect for the waste cycle hierarchy as its central axis.
as a member of the committee on petitions i have dealt with numerous petitions concerning the waste crisis and the counterproductive measures employed by the italian authorities.
− a big majority of the ep agreed (1) to call for a sustainable solution to be urgently identified that meets eu criteria, namely the implementation of a waste management plan in which, in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec, respect for the waste cycle hierarchy constitutes a key basis.
parliament requested the commission to keep it informed on the state of affairs, including a waste management plan, and compliance with the court decision of 4 march 2010 and eu rules.
parliament also pointed out (2) that compliance with eu law on waste in campania demands a very energetic effort to diminish the volume of waste and tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling by providing an adequate infrastructure.
it noted that more emphasis must be placed on recovery of organic waste, especially in this broadly agricultural region.
there is a risk that the activities of the community fleet, which is mainly engaged in artisanal fishing, will be disrupted, with a major impact on european areas and localities severely affected by the crisis, as well as the development of sustainable fisheries under the protocol and the flow of investments for the population of the area.
it is also an industry committed to the european union's goal of reducing emissions and to technological innovation.
i believe that the targets for reducing emissions are both ambitious and realistic.
manufacturers will have to achieve 147 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020. i am sure they will do so, and thereby contribute to the european union's target of reducing emissions by 20% by that year.
biofuels are clearly promoted, in line with the european union's 2020 renewable energy targets.
the main content of the first-reading agreement was: delaying the binding 175g co2/km average limit by one year (2017); lowering the 2020 target to 147g/km, requiring to be confirmed by legislative procedure; lowering excess emissions premium to eur 95/g; and a slight increase and prolongation of supercredits until 2017. however, the final outcome in plenary was highly unsatisfactory, and we decided to vote against.
all this shows that, at a time of unavoidable reforms, the sustainability of our pension systems must be achieved in a transversal way, taking into account, among other factors, ambitious policies on births or on labour market reconciliation, equally ambitious policies on access to and retention in employment, or even immigration policies based on integration, which also guarantee, from a demographic point of view, the sustainability of our pensions.
to answer that question, i want to make clear a first consensus: there is no sustainable growth without macroeconomic stability.
i believe that these types of measures are aimed at establishing pension systems that benefit the interests of the financial sector and do not represent a step towards more fair, sustainable, secure and beneficial public pension systems for european citizens.
the new situation in egypt should create the right environment to put these funds to maximum use and push forward the implementation of much more ambitious programmes than was possible in the past.
the far-reaching eu-korea fta sets a dangerous precedent for future eu trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards.
among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the eu succeeded in pushing korea to massage its rules on co2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow european car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to korea.
this arm-twisting by the eu, which has undermined the environmental integrity of korea’s vehicle emissions rules, is nothing short of scandalous.
worse, the eu is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing europe’s car industry laggards to ‘compete fairly’ in the korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient korean cars.
- i reject and regret the establishment of an eu-korea free trade agreement as i consider that, as one of the largest trade agreements signed by the eu in recent years, it deepens the negative consequences of global trade liberalisation, serving the multi-billion dollar interests of the large european transnational corporations without taking into account the serious economic, social, labour and environmental consequences of its approval under the terms presented.
the far-reaching eu-korea fta sets a dangerous precedent for future eu trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards.
among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the eu succeeded in pushing korea to massage its rules on co2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow european car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to korea.
this arm-twisting by the eu, which has undermined the environmental integrity of korea’s vehicle emissions rules, is nothing short of scandalous.
worse, the eu is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing europe’s car industry laggards to ‘compete fairly’ in the korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient korean cars.
− with this resolution, the ep: 1. welcomes the approval by the commission of the strategy for the danube region and supports the action plan accompanying it, focused on four pillars (connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region) and meeting the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchange, security and civil protection in the danube region; 2. recalls that the european parliament has been calling for this strategy since 2008 and calls on the hungarian presidency of the council of the european union and on the european council to endorse the eu strategy for the danube region by the june european council and to start its implementation as quickly as possible.
− with this resolution the ep: 1. reaffirms its belief that russia remains an important partner for the european union in building sustainable cooperation based on democracy and rule of law; 2. strongly condemns the terrorist attack at moscow’s domodedovo airport and expresses its condolences to the families of the victims and its solidarity with those wounded in the attack; underlines the need for the russian authorities to respond to this attack in a lawful and measured way and to allow the russian judicial system to work freely and independently to prosecute and convict those responsible for the attack; 3. expresses concern over reports of politically motivated trials, unfair procedures and failures to investigate serious crimes such as killings, harassment and other acts of violence; urges the russian judicial and law enforcement authorities to carry out their duties in an effective, impartial and independent manner in order to bring perpetrators to justice.
− we have finally voted in favour of the proposed resolution because amendments 2, 3, and 4, which intended to remove the phrase 'low carbon', have been adopted.
the crisis we are experiencing is not a natural disaster, but the consequence of the shift that conservative, liberal and social democratic political forces have made from the washington consensus to the brussels consensus, imposing non-public intervention in the economy, policies of wage moderation, the privatisation of public services and the main companies in key sectors of the economy such as energy or telecommunications.
− among the articles that brought us to support that text, is article 12, which: welcomes the flagship initiative on 'innovation union' as a key driver to achieve europe 2020 objectives, which addresses the major societal challenges like energy and food security, climate change, health and an ageing population; recalls that the 3% target is composed of a 2% (private expenditure) share and a 1% (public expenditure) share; notes that there are still particular shortcomings in the field of private research spending which can only be overcome by adapting the regulatory environment for companies, including smes and welcomes, therefore, the commission's intention to improve framework conditions for business to innovate, in particular with respect to intellectual property rights.
- i voted in favour because i support the measures it contains to combat the obstacles to global food security: commercial speculation, concentration in the food supply chain, price volatility, low farmer incomes or climate change.
i support the call for the eu to increase its support for rural development, investing in social protection programmes and small-scale farming, and to take effective action to combat climate change.
i am glad that you are asking the commission to include respect for community-equivalent standards in the fields of the environment, animal welfare and food safety and quality in trade negotiations with the eu's partners.
i also support the call for the ec to respect and promote, in the field of trade agreements, the guarantee of a sustainable future for farmers and not to put at risk european agricultural production, smallholder agriculture and global access to food.
firstly, the importance which parliament attaches to the sectoral support component of the financial contribution and its correct use, in view of the needs of both the sector and the mauritanian fisheries administration in moving forward with the establishment of an advanced and sustainable fisheries policy.
the agreement strengthens bilateral cooperation between the european union and mauritania and should ensure sustainable fisheries.
we are talking here about illegal fishing and, of course, the scientific committee must be strengthened to provide more means of knowing the stocks to be fished, but fishing must be sustainable.
the new protocol, based on the situation of resources, should provide a framework for the sustainability of community fleet activities in mauritanian waters, ensure a fair contribution by the european union to the sustainable development of the mauritanian fishing sector - a contribution that goes beyond the purely economic level - and, in addition, strengthen international law and respect for human rights.
i also recognise that this area brings a solid heritage of significant environmental importance and has many committed stakeholders.
i therefore believe that the atlantic strategy will help, firstly, to promote sustainable growth and jobs in the region through eu research programmes and regional development programmes, secondly, to achieve the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy and, thirdly, to achieve progress in protecting the environment and at the same time to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable manner in this vital region.
a strategy that is part of the europe 2020 strategy to protect the environment and biodiversity, to fight climate change, to promote sustainable urban and rural development, to promote in a responsible way the knowledge economy, tourism, marine research and innovation, renewable energy, maritime transport and training, to improve the accessibility of our territories by developing new sea routes, improving infrastructure networks and developing information and communication technologies, and promoting networking.
as the crpm - to whom i would like to thank for all their work - says, the current economic crisis, together with the need to act on the climate challenge, opens the way to the development of a new model of truly sustainable development for the european union.
the strategy should therefore focus on the preservation of the marine environment, fisheries, the environment, energy sources linked to the marine environment and tourism.
the transeuropean transport networks, the motorways of the sea and the energy links must therefore be given priority.
this is the objective of the european union strategy for the atlantic region: a common approach to address common challenges faced by the states of the region, including marine research, maritime surveillance and environmental and economic challenges.
there we can have fisheries; we need environmental protection; we can have tourism; we can have transport; we can have aquaculture; we can have energy; and we can have research.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by mrs michèle rivasi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the evaluation of the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009 and 2010 in the eu (2010/2153 (ini)) (a7-0035/2011).
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on reducing health inequalities in the eu (2010/2089 (ini)) (a7-0032/2011).
domestic resource mobilisation is central for sustainable growth, poverty reduction, good governance and the provision of public goods needed to achieve the millennium development goals.
first, we need to support effective domestic tax systems and, secondly, we need to work towards a transparent, cooperative and fair international tax environment to help developing countries fight against tax evasion and harmful tax competition.
− mr president, a reliable and sustainable protein supply is really essential for the eu livestock sector.
so i welcome your support for enhancing the environmental sustainability of arable farming.
let me stress that several member states currently use the possibility to couple part of the direct aid to environment objectives to support protein crops.
- the häusling report on the eu protein deficit and the search for solutions introduces some positive elements, such as aid to farmers that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the aid still received by transport, energy and publicly owned companies must therefore be reduced if there is to be free competition in the european internal market.
and thirdly, to respect the conditions of competition in the international framework: when it comes to environmental policies, when it comes to the origin of products, it is essential to compete on equal terms.
our rapporteur, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, has already explained how we understand the transition to an industrial policy that is smart, resource efficient and environmentally and socially sustainable.
madam president, in the field of energy where the union is facing high import dependency, much has been done to reduce the constant risks associated with our vulnerability, the most recent and clear example of which was the approval of the regulation on the security of gas supply.
no option on our agenda should be neglected in order to reduce our energy import dependency.
first, renewables represent an increasing part of our energy mix which is positioning gas as the major backup fuel.
in terms of energy dependency, we are not in the position to miss any opportunity.
from the greens/efa point of view, we proposed amendments on the development of marine energy, the prevention and fighting of marine pollution by ships and the development of short-sea shipping and highways of the sea, that were all adopted.
i call on the commission to come forward with a proposal by june 2011 with the priority of sustainable growth and jobs in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
the macro-region has a maritime space, fragile and peripheral, so the strategy requires an integrated, transversal and territorial approach that protects the environment, promotes accessibility, mobility and connectivity and promotes cohesion in all its dimensions.
tourism, motorways of the sea and trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, energy policy, and particularly marine energy, climate change measures, the framework programme for research and development, multilingualism and, in general, the new policies to be launched from 2014 onwards and between all relevant policies developed by the different responsible authorities in their field.
i welcome the recognition that, to face the crisis and globalisation challenges, energy and resource efficiency must be the basis for european industrial renewal.
sustainability has to be recognised as a central aspect of the so-called ‘competitiveness proofing’ and ‘fitness checks’ to be implemented by the commission as part of its better regulation initiatives.
it is important to bring the eu’s industrial policy in line with its climate and energy policy objectives.
mr president, mrs ashton, you have made your debut in a world of turmoil, in a world of financial, food and energy crises, the result of a gamble to regulate the market.
firstly, i would like to thank all honourable members for the energy and passion with which they have conducted this debate.
if these developments lead, as we all hope, to democratic regimes responsive to the aspirations of their peoples, the climate in the region will be even less favourable to israel.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, by mr joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000044/2011 - b7-0201/2011).
as regards the resources allocated, for example in the area of the structural funds, a total of eur 7.5 billion is available in the current financial period for risk prevention and corresponding environmental protection measures throughout europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
at the same time, it considers that it is essential to go beyond the temporary measures aiming at stabilising the euro area, and that the union should build up its economic governance, including by means of policies and instruments designed to promote sustainable growth in member states, and takes the view that the reinforcement of the sgp, the european semester, the eu 2020 strategy and the amendment of article136 tfeu concerning the stability mechanism are only a first step in that direction.
not only the child, but the child's environment with regard to what are the techniques and tools for privacy protection in the network society.
an internal market characterised by a high level of consumer protection is key to sustainable growth and employment.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of the directive on the quality of fuels, including an eu default value for oil sands and oil shale, by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000058/2011 b7-0209/2011).
mr president, the serious accident at the fukushima plant has called into question the supposed revival of nuclear energy.
for years, a widespread media campaign has tried to make us believe that nuclear power is the only solution to the energy supply and climate change problems that threaten our future.
the four fundamental problems of nuclear energy - high costs, safety, waste and the risk of proliferation - which caused its failure in the 1980s, remain today without a satisfactory solution.
for all this, it is necessary to enter a phase of progressive closure and dismantling of nuclear power stations, starting with those that have already had serious incidents - such as vandellós ii in catalonia and those that are already reaching the end of their useful life - and, at the same time, we must increase energy efficiency, responsible consumption and investment in renewable energy sources.
mr president, many experts are telling us that the next crisis may be energy and that, furthermore, we are either not doing the necessary work to avoid it or we are not doing it at the speed necessary to avoid it.
this coming saturday, the world wide fund for nature is calling on all of us to make a small gesture for sustainability.
europe cannot continue to rely on energy sources that are not its own, that are far away, or that are unsafe.
we need to help states build a new energy model in which renewable energy is at the heart of the new mix.
and we also need to support awareness of new consumption patterns because, without a doubt, renewables and efficiency are the keys to future sustainability.
finally, i would like to call on all the countries of the union to join this call, this will of five states, including spain, to increase the reduction of co2 emissions by up to 30%, because this would show that europe, in addition to being at the forefront of freedom and rights, is also at the forefront of its commitment to the sustainability of the planet.
in the agreement between the european union and the united states on air transport, this second phase involves the disappearance of the suspension clause which requires us to go ahead and improve those environmental aspects of business competition and protection of passenger rights with which we are not yet satisfied.
in addition, regulatory convergence could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
− a 2012 budget under the auspices of enhanced european economic governance, the european semester mechanism and europe 2020 objectives to boost growth and employment 1. takes the view that the europe 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on the five eu headline targets, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for – and public spending on – innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty; recalls that the member states themselves have fully endorsed these five targets; 2. points out that some consistency must be ensured between achieving these objectives and the funding allocated to them at european and national level; insists that eu budgetary policy must be in line with this principle; takes the view that the european semester, as a new mechanism for enhanced european economic governance, should afford an opportunity to consider how best to deliver on these five headline targets;
in writing.
− following the ordinary legislative procedure: (first reading) the european parliament, – having regard to the commission proposal to parliament and the council (com(2010)0520), – having regard to article 294(2) and article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0297/2010), – having regard to article 294(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, – having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 8 december 2010(1), – having regard to rule 55 of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the report of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0039/2011), 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal; 2. calls on the commission to refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
; highlights the need to make accessibility visible for people with reduced mobility; includes the environmental variable; opens the way to the consideration of the tourism satellite accounts to have a much more reliable economic portrait; and integrates new aspects and criteria such as short day trips or data related to catering, so important for a tourist country like spain.
the policy of fiscal and financial sustainability calls for a european framework both in the area of sovereign debt and in the recapitalisation of financial institutions and a genuine european social pact introducing productivity improvements, with social standards, fiscal advances and the updating of the welfare state is necessary.
it should also help to finance services and enhance aspects such as the digitalisation of the rural environment, which promote equal living conditions in urban and rural areas.
ensuring adequate social cover for all women who work in agriculture is another indispensable factor in modern sustainable farming.
the closure aid for plants in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria with outdated technology helps to mitigate the consequences of the exceptional costs of their early closure for 2013. the aid is intended to improve the environment and modernise new electricity systems and to improve the security of supply.
- i voted in favour of this report on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding in the field of nuclear decommissioning in the new member states as it indicates that the closure of the nuclear power stations involved should be given the highest priority, in the interests of the health and safety of the entire european population, and expresses its concern that the lack of financial resources for closure measures will delay the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and constitute a threat to the environment and human health.
the fukushima accident shows that nuclear energy cannot be controlled in the event of a disaster, and that its management cannot be in private hands.
the eu must move towards a future free of nuclear power stations and based on renewable energy.
i too welcome the fact that members are once again voting in favour of phasing out fossil fuel subsidies and thus encouraging the ecological transition, in line with european and national commitments on climate change.
however, this painful event has generated in our populations an acute emotional climate, adverse to this source of energy.
mr barroso: given that nuclear energy accounts for fourteen per cent of our energy consumption, the steady and foreseeable increase in electricity demand and our target of achieving 85 per cent reductions in carbon dioxide by 2050, many of us, and i, ask you, mr barroso, in this context, which may be short-lived, whether the european commission has any legislative or policy action planned to prevent this climate from jeopardising our long-term energy strategy.
it establishes a framework for cooperation based on criteria of sustainable and responsible fishing, preserving biological resources; it must take into account that there are migratory species such as tuna and each year the stock of the following year is fixed on the basis of scientific criteria.
but it is also because of one very important factor: it prevents fishing by third countries where the preservation of the environment is not adequately ensured.
we therefore consider that this agreement not only helps the union of the comoros but also helps to preserve the environment.
finally, because it promotes the sustainability of fisheries in the area and because it includes a mechanism for the objective assessment of the state of fish stocks and establishes scientific cooperation mechanisms for this purpose.
however, in line with the rapporteur and taking into account that one of the fundamental conditions for achieving sustainable fisheries is to ensure up-to-date and accurate knowledge of the situation of fish stocks, i regret that in the area of data collection, management and use it has not been possible to increase the co-financing rates.
the financial measures also include the economic aspects of fisheries and aquaculture and the reference to data collection, those relating to environmental measures.
under the agreements with african and pacific countries, the eu’s financial contribution is to a large extent expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources.
the partnership agreements therefore amount to a commitment to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels might be operating, based on a thorough assessment of the resources available and making sure that the fishing opportunities to be used have been vouched for by credible scientific opinions and rule out any risk of depleting local stocks.
statistics in this field are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but also play a role in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development.
its purpose, in accordance with article 3 of the treaty on european union, is to strengthen ‘a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment’ by placing companies, especially smes, and europeans at the heart of the single market.
in the first part of this communication, the commission proposes a number of actions to have stronger, sustainable and equitable growth for business.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need energy to eat, to travel, to study, to cure diseases and for many other things.
that energy has always come from different sources.
in some cases, the older ones, such as hydraulics, fossil fuels and even nuclear energy; in others, the more modern ones, such as renewables.
communication, energy, medicine, research, are all based on this: on a constant improvement of all resources.
i would also like to stress the commitments we have made as a group in our energy plan for europe, which involve a strong commitment to renewable energy, infrastructure, energy efficiency and electric mobility.
and in this context, i think we should also reopen the debate on coal, because it's our only indigenous source of fossil energy.
first of all, the question of longterm energy policy.
we would like to invite you to participate in the energy roadmap from day one.
that is why i am inviting the political groups to discuss, from may onwards, various scenarios for europe's energy economy over the next few decades.
an option with all the necessary implications, will certainly also mean to install the share of renewable energy in the electricity conversion as high as possible, if not even 100%, with implications for grids, storage, research, efficiency and other.
this treaty gives the european union full legislative powers in the energy sector, with one single, far-reaching exception, which has been deliberately set out: the question of energy technology, of the energy mix, remains a matter for the national parliaments.
it is possible to argue whether this was correct, but it is clear that i must draw the conclusions from the incidents in japan for the energy road map on the basis of the lisbon treaty, and i think that at the moment an amendment to article 194 is unrealistic for the time ahead.
i would like to see it, and i also believe that the european level has sufficient expertise on the energy mix.
but for the next few years the energy technology issue will be a matter for the member states in the field of electricity conversion.
the 20% renewable energy target limits the member states' competence to 80%.
the fact that we must and will achieve 20% renewable energy in nine years, with the will and willingness of the member states, and that we will always check this by means of progress reports, reduces the member states' responsibility to 80%.
because the 20% over everything in transportation will mean maybe 10% renewable energy.
in the field of electricity, which is the focus of attention today, we are aiming for a share of renewable energy of 35% in just nine years - water, biomass, geothermal, solar and wind energy.
this means that in three to four years, renewable energy will have overtaken coal and nuclear power in the electricity sector.
35% renewable energy in nine years!
the energy roadmap will in any case not only be looking at 2050, but 2025 or 2030, the next decade, where we need to invest now in technology, pipelines and storage.
once renewable energy reaches 40% or more, the member states will be left with 60% or less, and we are moving forward on the subject of competence at european level with the knowledge and will of the member states.
this may not be fast enough for some, but even without changing the lisbon treaty - which would not be realistic at the moment - this target is 20%, which equals 35%, later 40% or more of renewable energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the energy needs of the community.
it is said that the polish partners also want to use nuclear power to supply part of their energy mix, with the aim of being less dependent on gas and thus less dependent on the russian federation.
so in my plan, carbon-free coal is another option.
if you know poland, romania or spain, you must also give coal an option in the energy roadmap 2050, otherwise you are missing the realities of democratically elected parliaments and governments.
that is why i consider the subject of ccs research and demonstration projects to be very important in the pursuit of another objective, namely to achieve a co2-free energy economy in the next few decades.
we have set out in mrs hedegaard's road map for the energy sector in 2050 a 10% reduction in co2 emissions compared to today.
we have public control and supervision in all areas of life: health, safety, road transport, energy, industry and other areas.
mrs harms, if you are making a blanket statement and talking about pappenheimers and suggesting that a national nuclear watchdog is not up to its legal duties, then i consider this to be serious and also a declaration of distrust towards your colleague mr trittin, who was responsible for this watchdog in germany for seven years as federal minister for the environment.
the hungarian presidency started this semester with very serious ambitions in the field of energy policy.
we had no ambition to get anywhere near the energy mix.
there have been many arguments for and against some kind of guidelines for the energy mix in the european union.
i think that we will not be able to reach a consensus in the foreseeable future, but i am not sure that this is a problem, so member states should be able to make responsible decisions about their own energy mix.
but we had the ambition to make real progress towards a common energy market.
this is what the european council of 4 february 2011 set out to do, and to eliminate energy islands within the european union by 2015, and then we were able to adopt the council conclusions at the energy council at the end of february, and i think that's a big step forward.
the commission will publish its energy roadmap to 2050 in november, as we know.
however, at the informal energy council in budapest on 2 and 3 may, ministers responsible for energy will hold a preliminary discussion on the targets and a report will be prepared by the presidency, a policy summary, which will be on the agenda of the formal energy council in june.
these questions, which have been raised in this chamber, will certainly be raised in the council debate, and i am confident that when the hungarian presidency sums up this debate, the commission will be able to build on it when it finalizes the energy roadmap which it will publish in november.
it is clear to all of us that the least developed countries are the ones who suffer most from the effects of global crises, whether economic and financial, environmental or due to the increase in food prices.
it is good to note that in 2009 the eib increased its operations by 40%, sme lending by 55%, lending to less developed regions by 36%, and lending to combat climate change and energy efficiency by 73%.
however, much remains to be done and sustainable, long-term funding is still needed to make the european union's strategic objectives possible.
finally, i do not think that parliament should ratify the eu-morocco agreement without the inclusion of clauses concerning the labour market, the social dimension and the environment in morocco.
it is completely incomprehensible that the ppe group and others voted against saying that zero risk does not exist, against a progressive phase-out starting now, against going towards a near-100% energy-efficient renewables economy by 2050, against a nuclear-free future for europe, and so on.
with this resolution, the ep: 1. considers that ldc-iv should be result-oriented, on the basis of clear indicators and the objective of reducing the number of ldcs by half by 2020, combined with efficient and transparent monitoring and follow-up mechanisms; 2. believes that ldc-iv should focus on policy coherence for development as an important factor for policy shift, at national and international level; calls, therefore, for policy-making in all areas – such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance – to support the development needs of ldcs in order to fight poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods; 3. urges the eu to honour its commitments in terms of market access and debt alleviation; reaffirms the importance of reaching the oda target of 0.15 to 0.20% of gni for the ldcs, mobilising, for this purpose, domestic resources and, as a complementary measure, innovative financing mechanisms;
in writing.
with this resolution, the ep, among other things: welcomes the prospect of having as a new eu member a country with a strong democratic tradition and civic culture; underlines that iceland's accession to the eu will further enhance the union's role as a world-wide promoter and defender of human rights and fundamental freedoms; commends iceland for its good record in safeguarding human rights and ensuring a high level of cooperation with international mechanisms for the protection of human rights; supports the ongoing work to strengthen the legislative environment with regard to freedom of expression and access to information; welcomes, in this respect, the icelandic modern media initiative, enabling both iceland and the eu to position themselves strongly as regards legal protection of the freedoms of expression and information.
i join my voice to those that welcome the progress in relations between the eu and neighbouring countries within the enp and reaffirm the values, principles and commitments upon which the enp has been built, which include democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance; consider that the enp is still a framework of strategic importance for deepening and strengthening relations with our closest partners so as to support their political, social and economic reforms, and underline the importance of maintaining the principle of joint ownership in the design and implementation of programmes and actions.
the ep reaffirms the values, principles and commitments upon which the enp has been built, which include democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for women’s rights, good governance, the market economy and sustainable development, and reiterates that the enp has to become a valid framework for the deepening and strengthening of relations with our closest partners so as encourage and to support their political, social and economic reforms, which are designed to establish and consolidate democracy, progress and social and economic opportunities for all; emphasises the importance of maintaining the principles of shared responsibility and joint ownership in the conception and implementation of enp programmes; considers that since its launch in 2004 the enp, as a single policy framework and through its performance-driven differentiation and tailor-made assistance, has brought tangible benefits both for enp partners and the eu.
the best way to increase the resilience of the fisheries sector to fuel prices is to ensure that fishing levels are in line with maximum sustainable yield.
first, because such an increase would distort fishing operations towards more fuel-intensive technologies with greater negative impact on the marine environment.
it's down today, but i don't think it's back enough to be sustainable.
i would ask you, commissioner, to consider the possibility of introducing into the cfp, as you have suggested, new measures to limit the 'over-dependence' of fisheries on fuel and to ensure the necessary improvement in the marketing of products, all this from the point of view of the sustainability you have mentioned, as well as environmental and social sustainability, but also from the other side, which is also important, which is the human side, that of fishermen who are suffering enormously.
but given the dependence of the sector on fossil fuels and the new reform, efforts must be made to improve the energy efficiency of the fishing fleet, in addition to the efforts already made.
because supporting research in this field is also a bet on profitability and an opportunity for sectors such as shipbuilding, in relation to the energy market, to have a future and to be able to reinvent themselves.
to alleviate the situation in the sector in the short term, with measures such as the one the commissioner is proposing to mobilise and encourage the mobilisation of fisheries funds, seems to me to be a positive thing and i think it should be compatible with other measures and with long-term action towards greater sustainability.
mr president, let us be clear: there is an urgent need for the european fishing fleets to restructure so as to move away from energy-intensive, environmentally destructive fishing vessels and gear and to adopt more benign practices that require less energy and are more sustainable in the long-term: environmentally, socially and economically.
fourthly, the coverage of other important union policies beyond electronic communications: here i am talking about the environment, transport or research and the need to make a substantial amount of spectrum available.
the result of all this work has been the unanimous support for this report in the committee on industry, research and energy.
chemistry has made possible vaccines and antibiotics that have doubled our life expectancy and is fundamental to developing new sources of energy and improving nutrition.
− this grants the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing.
- this report concerns the prespa lakes basin, a natural area of international importance due to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
in this regard, an agreement is concluded between greece, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which share this natural area, to establish cooperation in the management of the waters of these lakes in order to prevent, control and reduce their pollution; to protect and conserve the biodiversity of the area and to protect the soil from erosion; to promote the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development; to prevent the introduction of non-native animal and plant species and to regulate human activities with a negative impact on the area.
− the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
for these reasons, the three countries concerned signed the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area on 2 february 2010, with the participation of the eu.
the purpose of the agreement is to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans, in accordance with international and eu standards.
the depletion of fisheries resources is an environmental but also a social problem.
i therefore support this report on this agreement, which aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing through the application of effective measures by the port state and thus to enable the long-term conservation and rational and sustainable exploitation of marine ecosystems.
− illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
− i have voted against granting the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
furthermore, the greens feared that the measures might pave the way for the inclusion of pakistan in the gsp+ scheme without the country having signed and implemented the corresponding labour and environmental conventions (let alone the geneva conventions).
in these circumstances, the time has come to propose a new round of stress tests, but in a totally different environment, with new european supervisory authorities.
banks that pass the stress tests are not exempted from making every effort to face adverse scenarios and to prepare for an increasingly demanding regulatory environment.
we can all remember, mrs ashton, the copenhagen climate change summit as an example of the useless cacophony to which the overrepresentation of the european union and its member states leads.
the epp, ecr and alde resolution recommending rushing into a complete opening of the indian market at all levels, without binding language on human and labour rights, csr, environmental dumping etc.
− this is a good report with good proposals, which include recognising the generally positive trend in terms of carbon storage in forests in europe, but also the fact that carbon storage still remains far below natural capacity, and that the forest sector could reverse to a source, due to pressures; calling for commission proposals to complement the timber regulation, in order to ensure that all timber or timber products placed on the european market are sourced from sustainably managed forests; urging the commission to study options for payment for ecosystem services; and calling for a legislative proposal on forest fire prevention, including consideration of a 30-year ban on building on land where there has been a forest fire.
the eu must consolidate itself as a strong and credible actor on the international scene and to do this we need to move towards an unambiguous message in promoting our values, such as democracy or human rights, in our external relations, but also in pursuing our interests, such as those related to energy security.
it therefore stresses the need for the eu to cooperate with leading regional powers and actively participate in the building and improvement of an international environment that enables the eu to promote, as required by the treaty, its values and interests.
you have followed this dossier with a love that truly honours you and i think we all owe you a great deal of thanks, as well as the entire delegation of the european parliament, all the colleagues, the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and all the other colleagues.
− madam president, as i have already had the opportunity to state to both the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development, i cannot but express my disappointment at the failure of conciliation, notwithstanding our best efforts to find an agreement.
the small business package is a very important tool to help create a more favourable business environment for smes.
fourthly, the sba has also created a framework to enable smes to take up the challenge of energy efficiency by improving their energy management and seizing the opportunities presented by the environmental market.
the action plan to encourage eco-innovation will also be implemented, paying particular attention to smes by promoting networking, low carbon technologies and efficient management of the use of resources.
we will also continue developing action specifically devoted to environment and energy experts within the enterprise europe network.
if we find weaknesses or waste, we have to address them.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by judith a. merkies, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the innovation union: transforming europe for a post-crisis world 2010/2245 (ini)) (a7-0162/2011).
secondly, there is the question of the role of europe 2020 in ensuring that precarious domestic jobs are transformed into decent sustainable jobs.
it is a very valuable form of informal learning, which promotes interculturality and equips young people with the tools to develop in a globalised professional environment.
secondly, in relation to mobility, it is essential that young people learn other european languages, with a dual objective: to interact fluently in the european environment and to be well rooted in the societies where they live and work, i.e.
their implementation should also ensure environmental and social sustainability and should not distort competition between member states.
− with this, the ep firstly welcomes the commission’s proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania, while underlining that it should be maintained only if it is mutually beneficial, adjusted appropriately and implemented correctly; secondly, welcomes the commission’s proposal to introduce a human rights clause; thirdly, insists that any and all access negotiated for eu-flagged vessels to fish in mauritanian waters must be based on the principle of surplus stocks as described in the un convention on the law of the sea; emphasises, in particular, that there must be a rigorous assessment of all stocks for which access is sought or which are likely to be caught by the eu fleet as by-catch; stresses that any access granted to the eu must relate to those resources which are unable to be caught by the mauritanian fleet; emphasises that, should effort reductions be necessary, those third-country (eu and other) fleets causing the most environmental damage must be the first to make reductions;
in writing.
in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, a restructuring of the european fishing fleet is more necessary than ever to abandon the use of fuel-intensive vessels emitting large amounts of co2 and practices and techniques clearly destructive to the environment, in order to move towards a model that is less energy dependent, less destructive and more sustainable in environmental, economic and social terms.
− the resolution focuses in particular on: (1) the regulatory environment, calling for better implementation of the sme test – in particular in member states – and for a reduction in bureaucracy and administrative burdens; (2) improving smes’ access to finance through additional funding and instruments within the eib (such as the rsff and equity financing) and an enlarged (and independent) cip; (3) improvements needed to ensure the participation of smes in public procurement; (4) simplification and better targeted r&d&i programmes to promote smes’ innovation management capacity, access to r&d&i services and knowledge-based business services, through, for instance, technology transfer centres and universities; (5) the need for more attention to be paid to skills needed and other social and labour market issues affecting entrepreneurship and smes’ capacities to fulfil their employment potential, in particular managerial skills, digital skills and sustainability skills; (6) action to improve resource efficiency: sectoral sme projects to identify resource efficiency innovation in the value and supply chains; the adoption of an ambitious eco-innovation action plan and more funds for it through the cip; more cost-effective energy efficiency measures to help smes reduce energy bills;
in writing.
innovation means generating employment, knowledge, technology, caring for the environment, broadening social cohesion and the well-being of citizens.
− the spanish socialist delegation voted in favour of the merkies report on the innovation union: transforming europe for a post-crisis world, because we agree with and are committed to the fundamental principles it advocates, aimed at laying the foundations for the transition to a smart, sustainable and equitable european economy.
− we broadly supported the draft report and submitted a series of amendments which have mostly been included, for instance: an emphasis on green priority objectives: energy and climate change, resource efficiency, regeneration of biological resources and promoting social cohesion; addressing eco-innovation at all stages, including design, through the adoption of a properly-funded and ambitious eco-innovation action plan, as well as the adoption of a strategy for promoting product-service systems and function-oriented business models; promoting the use of open standards as drivers for innovation and open access to publicly funded research, as well as focusing public financing on socially-valuable fields where knowledge is created as a public good, such as inducement prizes in the health sector (we also tried, with varying degrees of success, to propose better wording for ipr issues); we managed to retain the wording welcoming the commission’s efforts to prevent ipr from constituting a barrier to competition and innovation;
in writing.
− mr president, once again i deplore the persisting climate of fear and intimidation towards political opponents in belarus and the ongoing harassment and persecution of opposition figures since the presidential elections in december 2010. secondly, i strongly condemn all convictions resulting from the criminal charges of mass rioting and find them politically motivated and of a questionable nature.
commissioner, traceability to the source worked, but how much time was lost by diverting attention to the source, focusing on agricultural production, while ruling out other forms of pollution at the destination, such as handling or distribution?
we had to balance environmental and economic sustainability.
i reject the argument that the council has not been concerned with environmental protection.
this increased differentiation of infrastructure charges is an alternative way of combating congestion, even if only air pollution and noise are taken into account in the calculation of external costs, the differentiation mechanism introduced by the directive can still contribute effectively to reducing congestion on european roads.
the council adopted its position at first reading on 14 february this year, and then, at the request of parliament, we introduced a provision in the directive to give a political signal to citizens about the environmental characteristics of heavy goods vehicles, and thus we included the possibility of an external cost charge for euro 0,1,2 and 3 vehicles in the surcharge applied in mountain areas.
the hungarian presidency, mr president, is very pleased that this agreement with the european parliament has been reached and i am confident that the measure now being discussed by parliament will increase economic efficiency and reduce the negative environmental impact of the transport sector, and that the citizens of the union will benefit from the adoption of this directive.
- that is why we voted in favour, because we are not convinced by the false arguments of the psoe and the pp on the competitiveness of the sector; gaining competitiveness also means generating incentives for investment in more efficient means of transport, it means fair competition rules and it means internalizing the social and environmental costs of economic activities in general.
the proposal creates environmental economic accounts as satellite accounts to esa 95 by providing methodology, common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules, intended to be used for compiling environmental economic accounts.
at the initial stage, the environmental accounts to be compiled within the common framework shall be grouped in the following modules: a module for air emissions accounts; a module for environmentally related taxes by economic activities; a module for economy-wide material flow accounts.
on the basis of our amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the compromise negotiated with the council contains, in addition to the accounts initially proposed, a requirement for the commission to report by the end of 2013 and examine extension of the accounts to cover material stocks (and not only flows) as well as eco-system services.
agreement on this requirement for member states to provide data with harmonised methodology on environmental economy is actually a positive concrete step in the ‘beyond gdp’ process.
we therefore ask the council to maintain the level of expenditure for both policies beyond 2013. research, development, innovation, investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy, trans-european communications networks and energy interconnection, climate change and education are among the priorities that this community budget should cover.
it is the script for getting out of the crisis and for our growth, as the europe 2020 strategy says, to be smart, sustainable and inclusive.
if we agree that the european union is worth much more than the sum of its 27 member states, if we are in favour of good and responsible agriculture, if we want to achieve the millennium development goals, or if we want to help our mediterranean neighbours on that path to democracy, if we want to continue investing in research and innovation, if we want to continue fighting climate change or investing in education, training and erasmus grants, if we continue to believe in cohesion policy as a tool for sustainable development and solidarity between our countries, and if we continue to support, for example, the transeuropean energy and transport networks, in short, if we want to continue to want more europe, we are advocating a bigger budget for the european union.
- i voted in favour because the europe 2020 programme sees research and innovation as a key element in overcoming the crisis through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
cra ratings fulfil several useful purposes, they aggregate information about the credit quality of issuers in a global environment with asymmetric information between debt issuers and investors, allowing issuers to access global and domestic markets, reducing information costs and widening the potential pool of investors, thus providing liquidity to markets and helping find prices.
the europe 2020 strategy lists the key factors for smart growth (fostering knowledge, innovation, and education, and promoting the digital society), sustainable growth (more resource-efficient production going hand in hand with enhanced competitiveness), and inclusive growth (increasing the employment rate, training, and eradicating poverty).
as my colleague sandrine bélier has said, this report, although not quite up to the ambitions and guidelines it could have set, is a first step and a strong signal to the council and the commission that europe should embark on a reform of the indicators of wealth and development that are more in line with the environmental and social realities and constraints we are facing.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the environment.
it opens the way to the recognition of new, fairer and more appropriate indicators to enable us to initiate the ecological and social transition of our societies.
this is necessary to ensure that the flow of community funds is not interrupted and that it has a transition to improve its competitiveness and to move forward in convergence towards a sustainable development path.
the council has devoted a great deal of attention and energy to this issue, not least through a mutual peer evaluation of the practical application of this instrument which has been carried out in all member states over a period of three years.
i am referring to the ability of many states to circumvent the european directive which requires environmental impact assessment of public or private works in very sensitive areas of the european ecosystem, such as the alps, or perhaps the pyrenees, in spain.
in this case, a work which, in order to circumvent the directive, is fractionated, divided, thus preventing such an environmental impact study.
i believe, commissioners, that if you recognize that there is indeed a need for rigorous application of environmental impact studies, you must react more quickly to prevent the construction of projects from continuing despite reports indicating that such projects require a prior environmental impact study.
that is why it is very important that we change the timing and that we, from the committee on petitions and the european commission, can work to make those times shorter and that the member states do not make fun of the need to implement that environmental impact study directive.
in this case, the competent aragonese administration will divide the work to prevent the environmental impact study.
so, speaking of the stress tests - because some people don't want to talk about it, they are just with the background of eliminating nuclear energy in one debate or another, or debating about it - i have to say that commissioner oettinger has done an extraordinary job in a very short time, agreeing and already developing, in practice, a set of measures, a set of tests that will give us the measure of the situation we are in.
it should serve to review energy security and policy, which should be implemented on the basis of interdependence, transparency and guarantees of supply, and to combat climate change and improve energy efficiency.
madam president, this afternoon's debate makes clear the support and commitment of this house to a strong, community-wide cap that addresses the challenges of food security, environmental sustainability and rural employment.
yes, by also adapting the new cap to the 2020 strategy, but without a euro less, because there are no surplus resources for all the environmental, social and health challenges we have set ourselves.
in addition - and i must stress this again and again - regional policy has also evolved to become the central and sustainable investment policy for all european regions.
the debate on the transition regions - and i say this quite frankly - has lost some of the commonalities, the common priorities and the very substantial proposals for changing the future direction of the policy, so as to make it even more successful, sustainable, visible and more comprehensible and tangible for the citizens.
it is very important that we have this commitment here, for example to innovation, sustainability, energy efficiency, the potential that smart green technologies have for the european economy, for job security, also in a global competition.
i cannot get tired of saying that if you want to ensure energy efficiency, you have to start in the cities.
if we want to reduce co2 emissions, we have to start in the cities.
agriculture also needs support to innovate and focus this effort on more efficient use of energy, water and land.
- i voted in favour of this agreement because it will serve to spread sustainable fishing throughout the world by ensuring comprehensive control over the quantity of fish and the techniques of catching, as well as the conditions of fish taken from the sea and their food and commercial traceability.
- i voted in favour of this agreement because it fulfils the objective of maintaining the activities of the eu fishing fleet in cooperation with third countries in order to strengthen sustainable fishing with respect for the environment, social and economic aspects.
− the negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the eu’s general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors.
this agreement, which is applicable for periods of four years, tacitly renewable unless either party rescinds it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and são tomé and principe, concluded in 1984. however, our group has been traditionally opposed to that procedure for both the form and the content.
in the field of social cohesion (paragraphs 7 and 19), gender mainstreaming (paragraph 9), decarbonisation of transport (paragraph 11), energy efficiency (paragraph 14) and environment and climate protection (paragraph 15).
we also have good wording on realigning programmes to sustainable development (paragraph 35).
we have good wording on the costs of economic growth (paragraph 4), climate protection (paragraph 9), internal cohesion (paragraph 10), an integrated and bottom-up approach (paragraphs 21 and 23), deprived neighbourhoods (paragraph 25) and cross-financing (paragraph 28).
furthermore, it points out that the goal of cohesion policy should be sustainable, smart and inclusive economic growth evenly spread both territorially and socially, reduction of development disparities between regions, job creation, improved quality of life, worker training for new jobs, including in the field of sustainable economy, social and territorial cohesion and the implementation of the european social model, which constitutes a factor of cohesion and competitiveness of the european economy.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in addition, a number of indicators are included to determine economic imbalances and, consequently, recommendations, such as investment in r & d, energy sector.
this report implies that fiscal consolidation is prioritised over the eu's long-term sustainability, job creation, anti-poverty and social cohesion objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is therefore necessary to give the necessary time and to adopt measures enabling manufacturers to sell tractors, to raise funds for research and to encourage farmers to replace their tractors with less polluting ones, always with the aim of complying with european environmental legislation.
using the economic crisis as an excuse to weaken existing limit values (when they have already entered into force) sets an unfortunate precedent for other eu environmental legislation, rewarding non-compliance and punishing those companies that have made the necessary investments to comply with the legislation in time.
while the outcome of today’s vote is certainly a lot better than was expected, the proposed rules remain far too weak and fall far short of addressing the very real concerns with nuclear waste.
these rules aim to create a perception that the problems of nuclear waste are solved, but nothing could be further from the truth.
significantly, the rules do not apply to nuclear waste from military use, waste from uranium mining or spent fuel that is to be sent for reprocessing.
it is a huge source of relief that meps rejected a proposal to export nuclear waste to third countries, however.
it is outrageous to suggest that, because we cannot solve the problem of nuclear waste ourselves, it is ok to dump our nuclear waste in other countries.
importantly, a green amendment calling for the storage of nuclear waste in seismic areas to be banned was passed.
the ongoing disaster in fukushima should be a wake-up call on the huge risks involved with storing nuclear waste and we welcome that meps have heeded this call.
its proposals must now be translated into concrete legislative measures to be proposed in october 2011. the difficulties will be real when it comes to reconciling measures to promote employment, sustainability across all territories, environmental protection and climate change with the old talk of competition, competitiveness and liberalism.
the 'citizen energy waves' proposal is the result of a shared illusion, the work of thousands of people and different organisations with a common goal: culture as a promotion of knowledge among different people.
there is nothing better to commemorate this event than to discuss energy infrastructure in europe.
today, the european union has clearly defined the objectives of its policy: the european internal market, the promotion of renewable energy as a means or instrument to combat climate change, security of supply and diversification of sources.
the lisbon treaty contains a title on energy, title xxi, which contains the commitments i have just mentioned and also encourages the interconnection of energy networks.
the aim of the report we have drawn up is to correct energy infrastructures which, in the opinion of the european commission, are outdated and poorly interconnected.
for example, we are faced with a dramatic increase in wind power generation in the north sea and the baltic, with the immense potential of renewable energy in southern europe and northern africa, with the problems arising from large-scale electricity storage and the need to recharge electric vehicles, among many other pressing issues.
the aim is therefore to make progress in the coming years in determining the infrastructure needed: (a) by establishing the criteria for selecting projects of european interest; (b) by abolishing the 'energy islands'; (c) by ensuring that these projects are carried out within reasonable timescales and by finding ways of resolving the conflicting issue of authorization and licensing procedures in the member states; and (d) by ensuring that financing attracts and stimulates private investment, without prejudice to any necessary public support.
energy efficiency and savings, as well as smart grids, are key ingredients in the new design incorporated in the report, because we have believed that by reducing energy demand, we can reduce dependence on imports, with the consequent effect on infrastructure needs.
so far, the european union's energy policy, both within and outside its borders, has lacked a decidedly european impulse.
a voice that is clearly audible and resounds loudly in the vault of the european building, because it is from our energy fragility that we must draw the strength to build an energetically solid and vigorous europe, a worthy successor, in this anniversary year, of that great invention which was the ecsc, our birthplace, precisely.
thirdly, the need to achieve a real and complete integration of planning to combat poverty and combat climate change.
the next item is the extremely important report by corinne lepage, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory (com (2010) 0375) (c7-0178/2010 - 2010/0208 (cod)) (a7-0170/2011).
− mr president, about a year ago i presented the proposal on gmo cultivation to the parliament’s committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
that is why, in order to avoid restricting member states’ flexibility, the commission’s proposal referred only to grounds other than the assessment of adverse effects of gmos on health or the environment.
as regards the concrete grounds being considered, i certainly welcome the fact that they are largely inspired by the list that the commission developed at the request of the member states at the environment council on 20 december 2010. a fundamental point for discussion between co-legislators is the formulation of environmental grounds.
but it should be made explicit that these environmental reasons or policy objectives are distinct from risks assessed according to the gmo legislation.
this is a document of great significance because it breaks the unity of environmental policy which has always existed in europe.
i think that we have spoken here of democracies based on national parliaments and we must bear in mind that it is also democracy that a european common policy has achieved a great environmental policy.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it will add environmental, food and legal security to the decisions taken in europe on genetically modified crops.
if approved, additional restrictions linked to specific geographical areas may be justified on a case-by-case basis by complementary environmental assessments at local level, conflicting data from local or community-level studies, or new data and scientific evidence since the general assessment.
finally, i think it is right to change the legal basis and to refer authorizations to the environmental content of the treaties, instead of to the internal market clause, because it improves legal certainty but also conveys values.
in these sensitive matters, it is better to regulate from the environmental point of view than from the commercial point of view.
the fact that these regions are permanently disadvantaged by their insularity, remoteness from major markets, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products severely hinders their development and fully justifies the implementation of specially tailored measures.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
importantly, gmo cultivation could be banned on environmental grounds – such as to protect biodiversity – or if there is a lack of adequate data on the impact of cultivating a gm crop.
− parliament today failed to adopt a report on the eu’s climate change policy, after the final report was rejected by a majority of meps.
it is extremely frustrating that conservative and centre-right meps continue to keep their heads in the sand with regard to climate policy.
it is clear that the eu’s current 20 % emissions target for 2020 is completely obsolete and that the eu needs to deliver on its pledges and step up to a 30 % reduction target.
clearly, there are plenty of climate dinosaurs in the ep.
we believe, however, that the european parliament should have gone further by proposing a more relevant indicator than gdp, and by adding social and environmental criteria to it, in order to measure the well-being of the territories when allocating aid between european regions.
- i have supported this report on the priorities for energy infrastructure beyond 2020 because it is a practical expression of the usefulness of the european union for citizens.
the report focuses on issues that will have a major impact on citizens' well-being, such as better access to various energy sources at lower costs, reduced environmental impact and more efficient generation, distribution and consumption.
- we know that only by creating a network without internal bottlenecks, which overcomes the current situation of isolation of certain european regions, will we be able to ensure the three pillars of our energy policy: competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
however, a third of the member states are still short of the 10% interconnection capacity target set for 1992. that is why we want to reiterate the eu's commitment to this target and, more importantly, insist that it be followed up in the same way as the 20-20-20 targets for emission reductions, the use of renewable energy and increased efficiency.
it also stressed that this approach should take account of the european and regional perspectives of rebalancing inequalities and optimising socioeconomic and environmental effects.
on some of the issues raised in the commission’s green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development, parliament has an established position or is currently preparing reports.
and to stimulate sustainable economic growth, we propose that cohesion policy, with a budget of €376 billion, be more closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy.
a single euro, well invested, can both strengthen economic and territorial cohesion, increase energy efficiency, contribute to the fight against climate change and promote social objectives.
we therefore propose that farmers should also contribute to improving the ecological character of their farms.
it is useful, of course, to achieve agricultural objectives, but it is also useful to achieve our environmental policy objectives and to combat climate change.
it is essential for the future of our children and grandchildren that we all become more environmentally friendly and strongly committed to the fight against climate change.
and as you know, one of our main proposals is the creation of a connecting europe facility to finance integration projects in the transport, energy and information technology sectors.
solidarity with the poorest member states and regions, but also solidarity in our efforts to tackle the great challenges we face, from energy security to migration; solidarity also with third countries, especially the poorest countries.
so while maintaining the priority given to economic, social and territorial cohesion - because, as i have often said, without cohesion, there is no solidarity, and without solidarity, there is no union - and also by maintaining the role of the cap, we are freeing up resources for the financing of new priorities, such as research and innovation, education and training, pan-european infrastructure, energy, migration and neighbourhood policy.
we welcome the efforts made in cohesion, the new transeuropean networks, energy efficiency, immigration, own resources and research, in particular.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) and food and feed controls (2010/2249 (ini)) (a7-0195/2011).
at present there is no uncontested evidence that the introduction of larger and heavier vehicles, through general acceptance of the european modular systems, would result in an overall reduction of energy consumption and emissions from the transport system as a whole.
the commission will subject any proposal to amend current regulations to a thorough impact assessment, taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects.
its inclusion among the control methods for detecting prohibited or dangerous elements is therefore necessary, but it requires a thorough prior assessment to determine which technology is the least harmful and what the level of non-accumulative emissions acceptable to health is.
it also strains the european social model and adds to the challenges of competitiveness, ageing and climate change.
− i voted in favour of this initiative because the eu-wide provision of high-performance broadband will help to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, thereby boosting sustainable, inclusive and cohesive economic growth for the territory, job creation and competitiveness in europe.
the eu needs a budget of adequate size to accommodate the euro in a sustainable way.
the eu has not met its own criteria for budgetary discipline; unequal direct payments to farmers and an incomplete cohesion policy, which has failed to close the significant economic and social gaps between member states in 12 years, are the first challenges to be overcome if sustainable development and a balanced increase in the well-being of people are to be achieved across the eu.
the goal is clear: the promotion of what i call ‘deep and sustainable democracy’ and – with it – economic prosperity.
a specific policy for the black sea is needed, which will harmonise and organise all the coastal countries - both within and outside the european union - apply scientific criteria to determine fishing capacity and use diplomacy as a tool for harmonising the different countries, defend small-scale fishing - because many families and many villages depend on it - and promote the recovery of the environment; and establish a regional fisheries organisation, an administration closer to the area and able to solve problems.
this tragedy has a response, it needs a stronger response from the european union and there will be no good system until these countries consolidate their democracy and establish a climate of cooperation with these third countries.
the more than 2000 people who have died this year trying to escape the tragic situation in which they find themselves in their own countries, seeking refuge in europe as a last resort to survive hunger, poverty, misery, war, climate disasters or political persecution, are a good example of this.
the commission’s proposal to repeal a number of legal acts, as presented to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of law-making and simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
the commission’s proposal to repeal this legal act, as presented to parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of lawmaking, and to simplify the legislation in force in view of creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
in line with the european parliament legislative resolution of 24 september 2008, where the ep considers that when drafting the negotiating mandate for the revision of the international tropical timber agreement, 2006, the commission should propose that the current text be revised, placing the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of forest areas that have been degraded at the heart of the agreement, stressing the importance of education and information policy in the countries affected by the problem of deforestation in order to enhance public awareness of the negative consequences of exploiting timber resources in an abusive manner.
in particular, this mandate for the revision of the international tropical timber agreement, 2006 should propose a voting mechanism for the international tropical timber council that clearly rewards the conservation and sustainable use of tropical forests.
to fill this gap, and given that there is fishing activity both in the eezs and on the high seas, in 2006 the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch a process of international consultation on the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), with the aim of cooperating in addressing the gap in the management and conservation of non-highly migratory species and the protection of biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law.
in general terms, the resolution: 1. takes the view that the debate on the role of the auditor should go hand in hand with a strengthening of the role of the audit committee – now largely ineffective – and of the financial and risk reporting that companies are required to carry out; but 2. sees as yet no sufficient basis for a final assessment, and therefore reminds the commission that more use of regulations and a wide-ranging, in-depth impact assessment are needed, looking at the various political options, focusing on practical issues in line with the principles of ‘better lawmaking’, addressing the importance of accounting in providing accurate information about the sustainable economic development of companies and including an analysis of interest groups in order to clarify the segmentation of the impact assessment study for the various groups, such as smes, sifis and other listed and non-listed companies; 3. takes the view that an assessment should be made of the impact on the users of audit reports, such as investors and sifi regulators; 4. calls on the commission to analyse the added value generated by both the proposed regulation and the progressive harmonisation of auditing standards and practices in the european single market;
in writing.
in accordance with the definition of the own initiative report by the itre committee, the rapporteur (greens) took a targeted approach to ‘an effective raw materials strategy for europe’ focusing on non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials and in particular on critical raw materials such as rare earths.
- i voted in favour of this report because of the need for sustainable management of fisheries in the black sea now and in the future.
this could provide tangible results in preserving fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring economic development in coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fisheries resources.
institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin.
− national oil and gas supplies make an important contribution to the eu's energy consumption and energy security.
for female entrepreneurs the stakes can be even higher as they may have to overcome discrimination in what has traditionally been a male environment.
the following is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market integrity and transparency (com (2010) 0726) (a7-0273/2011).
mr president, commissioner, as we have said many times, a truly competitive internal energy market requires further development of network interconnections, further harmonization of network guidelines and codes and the completion of the process of coupling all energy markets.
the adoption of the regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets is therefore a particularly important milestone.
given the technical specificities of these markets, it is now necessary for the european commission, acer and national energy regulators to move forward with the creation of a common framework applicable to all operators in spot energy markets.
this common framework should provide harmonised access to the different national and regional markets for those involved in them today, thus promoting intra-european trade in electricity and gas and the convergence towards a single and competitive energy price in europe.
we are fully aware of the climate in which we are living, the serious crisis and the need for measures to make life for businesses, and especially smes, much easier.
1 655 petitions compared to 1 924 in 2009. the main issues raised in the petitions, from the most important to the least important, have been the environment, fundamental rights, the internal market and justice.
the fact that most of the requests concern the environment means that appropriate procedures must be put in place to prevent further irreparable losses in the biodiversity of the european union.
the format of reception, fortunately, is the internet - which clearly displaces paper - and we also highlight in the report the three research missions developed by the commission in 2010: research mission in the estuary of huelva (spain) to examine the management of toxic waste (phosphate and toxic ash discharges), mission in campania (italy) on the management of urban waste and mission in voralberg (austria) in relation to the transposition into national legislation of the environmental impact directive as regards a project related to skiing.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european environmental monitoring system, which would be able to monitor the implementation of environmental legislation in the member states.
i therefore think mr jahr’s idea to improve communication on pieces of legislation that are particularly complicated – which is usually the case in the field of the environment – is very important.
we particularly appreciate the fact that both ms mazzoni and ms auken participated in the seminar organised by dg environment because this is exactly how we would like to promote awareness on these very complicated pieces of legislation.
firstly, and for the second time, we reiterate the need to raise the level of demand when it comes to shortening the procedures for petitions that may put biodiversity at risk in the european union.
i mean, many times, from the very beginning of the procedure, they go to the commission, the commission asks the member state for information and the member state responds... so much time passes that, in the case of a public or private project that may endanger biodiversity, by the time the letter of location or the action of the courts arrives, the damage is already done and it is irreversible.
i therefore hope that tomorrow we will be able to vote on the final report for 2010 and i also hope that in 2011 we will not have to repeat the need to shorten the procedures for certain petitions that put biodiversity at risk in the european union.
- i support this report which aims to establish an eu-wide legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector.
the commission proposal for a regulation (‘remit’ – regulation on energy market integrity and transparency) establishes an eu-wide legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity).
this framework must be specific to the wholesale energy markets, in addition to the already existing regulations for financial markets.
the inherent characteristics of energy products, misconduct specific to the energy market (such as withholding energy production assets), as well as the different regulatory objectives require a sector-specific approach, while maintaining principles compatible and coherent with financial market regulations.
in the context of the integration of national energy markets into a single european market, an eu framework is necessary.
among other things the european parliament: 1. notes that european and international climate policies have focused primarily on long-term reductions in co2 emissions, for example, through increased energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, and other low-carbon strategies; 2. calls for a comprehensive european climate policy which can benefit from considering all sources of warming and all mitigation options; stresses that in addition to considering co2 emission reductions, it should place emphasis on strategies that can produce the fastest climate response; 3. notes that fast-action regulatory strategies are available to phase down production and consumption of hfcs and to reduce emissions of black carbon and the gases leading to the formation of tropospheric ozone, and that these can begin within 2–3 years and be substantially implemented within 5–10 years, producing the desired climate response within decades or sooner, in particular for some hfcs at a public price as low as 5 to 10 cents per tonne, whereas the carbon price is currently over 13 euros per tonne;
president-in-office of the council.
the european union must make the arab spring one of its highest priorities for two reasons: firstly, to respond to the cry for freedom and dignity that is being heard in north africa and the arab countries, and secondly, to prevent radical islamic fundamentalism from taking root in our immediate environment, to frustrate the transition processes under way in these countries and, above all, to prevent freedom from being threatened again by barbarism and fanaticism.
i think that in summing up this debate we can all agree that the european union cannot waste a day or any effort if it wants to support the peace process.
we europeans have a moral obligation, madam commissioner; we must commit ourselves politically to a greater extent if we are to tackle together with the actors involved the real political, social and environmental causes of poverty in the region, and in the 21st century a humanitarian catastrophe like the present one can never, or should never, be repeated.
we will pursue the challenge with determination and energy, and we will continue to be a strong ally and committed international partner in preventing and combating non-communicable diseases worldwide.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the eu's political approach to the itu world radiocommunication conference 2012 by herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000180/2011 b7-0429/2011).
this resolution addresses, in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement, the following recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service (eeas): (a) to base the eu engagement and ongoing negotiations with the republic of moldova on the assertion that the eu perspective, including article 49 of the treaty on the european union, which should go hand in hand with the implementation of structural reforms, is both a valuable lever in the implementation of reforms and necessary catalyst for public support for these reforms; (b) to apply in relations with the republic of moldova the principles of ‘more for more’ and differentiation based on the individual merits and accomplishments of the republic of moldova over the last two years; (c) to welcome the stable and progressive cooperation on the part of the republic of moldova in the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement and on the various elements of cooperation, including foreign and security policy, energy cooperation, human rights and trade, which has led to the successful and timely closure of most chapters of the negotiations.
in particular, because it calls on the eu and its member states to endorse the following five key commitments and include them in the political statement to be issued at the un high-level meeting on ncds in september 2011: the reduction of preventable ncd mortality by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who; the implementation of cost-effective and cost-saving interventions, including the speedier implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, better access to and the promotion of healthy diets, including action to reduce salt, sugar, saturated fat and transfat intakes, effective measures to combat the harmful use of alcohol, and access to and the promotion of physical activities, as well as a population-wide reduction in exposure to environmental pollution; the monitoring of trends in ncd mortality and the common risk factors for ncds; the development of global and national accountability mechanisms for all key stakeholders involved; the establishment in 2012 of a high-level partnership to foster the implementation of the recommendations and the organisation in 2014 of a high-level meeting to review the degree to which commitments have been honoured.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr fidanza on his report, which defends competitive and innovative tourism, which is true, but also ethical and sustainable.
it is the tourism implementation of the three keys of the 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive development.
the aim is to consolidate europe's image and visibility as a collection of sustainable and quality destinations and to foster the competitiveness of the tourism sector.
in fact, pupils who have spent all or part of their school lives in the multicultural and multilingual environment which the european schools provide begin their working life with an enormous advantage.
they say new cities have to be energy-efficient, they have to be smart cities, but how do we take the step from a destroyed city to a smart city?
this fpa, which is applicable for periods of 5 years, tacitly renewable unless either party terminates it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and cape verde, concluded in 1990. the fpa was accompanied by a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial compensation originally for a 5 year period (from 1 september 2006 to 31 august 2011).
the european parliament, – having regard to the draft council decision (09390/2011), – having regard to the draft memorandum of cooperation nat-i-9406 between the united states of america and the european union (06458/2011), – having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 100(2) and 218(7) and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0141/2011), – having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0301/2011), 1. consents to conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the united states of america.
the ep: (...) 3. believes that this specific system of education enables pupils to study all subjects in a multicultural, multilingual environment, with qualified teachers, while retaining their mother tongues; 4. takes the view that the european schools, which constitute an excellent educational showcase based on a tried and tested teaching approach, should become an example of one of the best possible forms of schooling in europe, based on the dissemination of european culture, values and languages, and whereas incorporating certain elements of this model, such as the emphasis on foreign-language knowledge, into the national and regional education systems would assist professional mobility and help to foster multilingualism and european integration; 5. believes that european schools play a valuable role in their communities.
it is a crucially important sector since, in addition to furthering the integration and development of less-developed regions, it manages to combine growth with ethical and sustainable development in the eu’s member states.
the ep: 1. considers that, globally, no other natural hazard has proved more destructive to property or cost more human lives than floods over the past century, despite the billions of dollars spent on flood management; 2. highlights that water is a scarce natural resource, which gives rise to equity consideration in its allocation; stresses therefore that rethinking the management of freshwater resources, in the context of climate change, is undoubtedly a key challenge facing the world; 3. points out that there has been a documented increase in the frequency of serious floods throughout the second half of the 20th century and that flooding will prove a critical issue in the coming decades;
in writing.
new challenges, including the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, bio-fuels, loss of biodiversity, land degradation and pressures on water, have contributed to further affect the state of food security in the world.
and we are particularly committed to the sustainability of this programme, which is an expression of european solidarity.
but in any case, let this programme not be stopped and let the shame be lifted, temporarily and definitively, that in this europe of opulence and waste there are people who are hungry.
we therefore felt that it was necessary to bring the matter before the european court of justice in order to have its opinion and that it would help us to take the right decision on an issue which has important political, but also economic, ecological and social consequences.
this ambitious, voluntary and responsible approach is the lever needed to overcome the ecological and social crisis.
i welcome the signal sent by parliament on the concept of the 'green economy' on which the earth summit will focus: 'no' to the commodification and privatisation of the commons, 'no' to the reproduction of the models that have brought us to where we are today; the european parliament has voted in favour of a more resource-efficient, more equitable economy, which is environmentally sustainable and socially just.
as sandrine bélier, member of the environment committee, put it: "20 years later, what will we have to answer severn suzuki?
this optional mandate is to be activated not as an increase of individual regional ceilings, but as a mandate dedicated to projects which contribute to the fight against climate change across all regions covered by the decision; 2. replacing the current system of regional objectives for operations under eu guarantee with horizontal high-level objectives covering all regions under the external mandate; 3. development by the commission, together with the eib, and in consultation with the european external action service (eeas), of operational guidelines for each region under the external mandate, reflecting eu regional strategies in order to strengthen the link between the implementation of eib activities in line with the general high-level objectives under the external mandate and eu regional priorities.
− although there were enough proposals and policy content to agree on the text, i wish to stress that, if we were in a majority position, the resolution would have looked different and would have taken up, inter alia, the following points: stronger wording on the regulation of the financial industry and making a link to safeguarding the social and political stability of the eu; a call for an investment plan (avoid the term ‘growth plan’) with project bonds in order to foster the ecological transformation of the economy (europe 2020 strategy); emphasising the role of the commission as the core of the ‘economic government’ and clearer language as regards the democratic accountability of this ‘government’ (to the ep); harmonisation of corporate and energy taxation and the establishment of an eu financial transaction tax.
i was minister for the environment, i was also minister for fisheries in my own country and i know what the monitoring of the seas and coasts means.
we have adopted it with three objectives: to promote the full social integration, through education, and the employment of people with disabilities; to avoid the double discrimination that exists because of the fact of being young and disabled, woman and disabled person or disabled in the urban world or in the rural world; and also to seek european approval of what the construction of the fourth pillar of the welfare state should entail, at a time when we are debating the sustainability of the whole welfare state.
the commission proposal amends existing legislation on limits to pollutant emissions from engines intended to power agricultural and forestry tractors.
the commission proposal weakens existing legislation on limits to pollutant emissions from diesel engines installed in construction, agricultural and forestry machinery, railcars & locomotives, inland waterway vessels, constant speed engines and small petrol engines used in different types of machinery.
i would like to underline the following important point, among others: 5. points out that aid effectiveness requires poor countries to be able to mobilise domestic revenues; urges the eu once again, therefore, to make the fight against tax havens and tax evasion its utmost priority, while also promoting alternative sources of development finance, for example through the introduction of a financial transaction tax; likewise, urges the eu to give developing countries more help with tax reforms, thereby supporting the establishment of effective, efficient, fair and sustainable tax systems, which should have the effect of reducing poverty and aid dependency.
firstly, to promote training in those disciplines which enhance the development of transversal competences, such as digital competence in the use of new ict, creativity and initiative, the ability to work in a team and language learning, all in an environment conducive to mobility.
in this budget we also stress the need to strengthen the european union's investment in order to have a policy of sustainable, solidary and intelligent growth.
if the eu is serious about achieving the goals it has set itself under the europe 2020 strategy, notably for sustainable development, as well as meeting the new demands that will be posed by the accession of croatia, it requires a budget to ensure this is possible.
if the austerity climate affects these areas, the exit from the crisis will be slow and counterproductive.
− in favour: the european parliament, – having regard to the draft council decision (11114/2011), – having regard to the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway (06647/2010), – having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 171 and 172 and point (a) of the second subparagraph of article 218(6), and article 218(8) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0184/2011), – having regard to rules 81, 90(7) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0316/2011), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the kingdom of norway.
the european parliament, having regard to the draft council decision (11117/2011), having regard to the draft agreement on the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite-based navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (11575/2011), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 171 and 172 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a) and article 218(8), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0185/2011), having regard to rules 81, 90(7) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0332/2011),1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement;2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the united states of america.
the next item is the debate on:- oral question to the council on the threat to public health from antimicrobial resistance, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000214/2011 - b7-0633/2011), and- oral question to the commission on the threat to public health from antimicrobial resistance, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000215/2011 - b7-0634/2011).
it is a pity that we have to turn to the outside because we are unable to fix the problems we have inside, and we will only do so if we have a comprehensive plan that addresses at the same time macroeconomic discipline, debt sustainability and, above all, growth.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, citizens are demanding that europe provide solutions to their problems, that europe be able to achieve a sustainable economic recovery and that it contribute to the simplification and flexibility of regulations.
only then can we build a way out of the financial and economic crisis based on sustainable knowledge and social progress.
it highlights some cross-cutting issues such as sustainable consumption, vulnerable consumers and accessibility.
from a sectoral point of view, it rightly puts the stress on financial services, energy and digital.
we will include consumer issues under vice-president reding’s portfolio and my own, but also measures falling under other commissioners’ responsibility, such as financial services, energy, transport and digital.
the consumer agenda will also need to take into account the emerging challenges facing future consumer policy: the need to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption; to address the specific needs of an ageing population; digitalisation (including e-commerce); and the issue of social inclusion and vulnerable consumers.
on the one hand, we must take into account the cultural traditions and the important sustainable contribution of play to society in some states, such as mine, through education, culture and sport.
the greens/efa requested that any decision on nuclear research should: enhance democratic control and parliament’s role concerning nuclear material by introducing the lisbon treaty as the legal basis; limit the euratom nuclear research programmes to the activities linked to radioprotection (people and the environment), decommissioning of nuclear installations, safeguards and non-proliferation – this could free up to eur 2 400 million or more from the eu budget in the next two years; and exclude eu public money from research into fusion, in particular the white elephant iter, and into the development of new types of fission reactors.
as regards nuclear waste, the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply.
the committee on the environment was also useful as we took up many aspects they had voted through in their opinion but the committee on agriculture had rejected in its vote.
we need sustainable agriculture everywhere, and buffer strips and wildflower/melliferous beds are not enough on their own.
madam president, madam commissioner, i believe that we are facing a climate change summit, the one in durban, which has an advantage over those immediately before it: there is absolute clarity about the impossibility of reaching a binding international agreement.
i believe it is time for the european union to become the regional leader in proposals such as those arising from energy efficiency, which are the ones that can really bring together the action of so many other countries, from the most developed to the richest to the least developed and the poorest.
the fight against climate change, by promoting energy efficiency, has incredible potential in all areas, and i sincerely believe, commissioner and colleagues, that it is time for the european union to become the leader in the fight against climate change through energy efficiency.
the direct consequences: sanctions against the states, loss of competitiveness, efficiency, sustainability and time.
this attitude is living with one's back to reality and, unfortunately, i am sure that in ten years' time this parliament will include the regions in order to achieve the competitive, efficient and sustainable european area we so desire, at least some of them.
the european parliament has today sent a clear message that the eu needs to stop prevaricating and instead finally commit to continuing with the kyoto protocol beyond 2012. with the un climate talks in a state of protracted limbo, a clear commitment from the eu to kyoto beyond 2012 would give a new impetus to the talks and the need for a comprehensive binding international climate agreement.
clearly, resolving the current flaws and loopholes under the kyoto protocol – notably on how emissions from forestry and land use are accounted, as well as the issue of hot air or surplus emissions permits – is essential if the protocol is to be environmentally sound.
the current greenhouse gas target of a 20% reduction by 2020 is clearly at odds with the eu’s pledge to limit the increase in global temperatures to below 2 degrees.
it is clear, madam president, that the european union and the united states are two partners who share the same vision of the world, not always identical, but who are called to understand and respect each other, and it must be understood that in today's globalised world, faced with the challenges and threats that affect us all equally - the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking or organised crime, the economic and financial crisis or unemployment, the preservation of the environment and natural resources or emigration - we must seek answers from everyone equally, understanding that unilateralism, even that of the most prosperous or the most powerful, is an impossible dream.
but innovation is the cornerstone on which concrete proposals must be built to jointly forge a new global economic model that is more sustainable, intelligent, fair and lasting.
in this sense, investment in r & d & i is directed towards a more efficient and sustainable use of energy resources and towards improving the quality of life of citizens.
i believe that a determined commitment to education and training, as well as the transfer of innovation in working conditions, can reverse this more equitable and sustainable global economic model that we all seek.
however, europeans and americans have many challenges to face, not just economic: climate change, nuclear proliferation, energy, terrorism, poverty; and regional issues, such as the arab spring and the middle east conflict.
the commission concluded that this situation was neither acceptable nor sustainable.
even if all nuclear power plants were to close tomorrow, we would still have to manage waste, improve its storage and decontamination and reduce its volume, among many other issues that have already been mentioned and that require sufficient investment in r & d. it is also vital that nuclear research continues to have the best scientists who can respond to these important challenges.
they know that this concept will be the basis for an environmental policy, a policy on maritime transport, which is so important in all these areas, an energy, research, fisheries or regional policy.
the programme has a general objective: to make decisions in a coordinated, coherent, transparent and sustainable way in relation to seas, coastal regions, islands, outermost regions and in the different marine sectors; and specific objectives for its development: to advance integrated maritime governance and develop information exchange instruments to improve maritime surveillance and environmental protection, among others, with a financial envelope that we hope will continue and increase from 2014. all this in order to achieve economic growth, social cohesion and sustainable development, with an international dimension, but with a guarantee, because the council must present, by december 2012, its impact on the policies of the union, measure the result of our decisions.
the balance between ecosystems, coastal populations and the sea as a means of communication, but we must not forget new forms of competitiveness, such as the existence of wind farms or the use of wave energy.
fisheries are a fundamental element in this report, they have an important aspect of balance and sustainability, they can ensure the balance of the ecosystem and, of course, the research part is also important.
i think the rapporteur has stressed the importance of agreements with third countries and europe can contribute to the balance of the ecosystem of those third countries with such agreements, in order to maintain the sustainability of our seas.
because, in fact, the eta is one of the worst threats not only to biodiversity but also to those parts of the sector which depend precisely on the good state of the resources and which want to do things right.
the objectives of a common policy on sustainable fisheries, the protection of the marine environment and the promotion of fishing without unfair competition are thwarted if illegal fishing is not combated in a committed manner.
this situation leads to the loss of both short and long-term social and economic opportunities and to negative effects on food security and environmental protection.
conserving its biodiversity and managing its resources responsibly is an international priority requiring a global governance system.
illegal fishing, which is estimated to account for at least 15% of catches, undermines this purpose, leads to a loss of economic and social opportunities and has repercussions on food security and the environment.
neither the market nor national initiatives alone are sufficient to address systemic risks and to put the european economy back on a sustainable path.
mr president, our dependence on energy is well known: we import 60% of our gas and 83% of our oil; in the case of coal, the dependence is 41%.
by limiting our extraction capacity, we will only be able to import it from countries that do not have our social or environmental standards.
the commission should review the current framework for aid to coal extraction in its energy strategy up to 2050. the new legislation can be improved with regard to the time limit for closing farms or the obligation to repay aid in order to continue operating.
our dependence on energy is another external vulnerability and in the current crisis this will be something we will pay for sooner rather than later.
we have strengthened programmes which will help us to combat the crisis: programmes for entrepreneurship and innovation, the smart energy programme or programmes such as erasmus mundus.
the proposed spending in key areas will also fail to ensure the sustainable transformation of the european economy.
instead of prioritising investment in green technologies, the budget allocates a disproportionate amount of funding to nuclear energy vis-à-vis safe and sustainable energy technologies, like renewables and energy efficiency.
the ecb must be reformed to promote full employment, the economy and sustainable growth.
- the report emphasize that the guidelines for the employment policies of member states and the broad economic guidelines both form integral parts of the european semester and are equally important for the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i only ask that the commission be... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the green group, i am obviously opposed not only to the extension of the current agreement but also to a new agreement, and the reasons have already been mentioned; they are of three kinds: legal, economic and ecological.
from the economic point of view, it is also clear that this is a disaster as an agreement because it does not, in any case, bring any benefit, and it is also an economic waste, and more so in situations such as the one we are in, but ecologically it is even more serious.
so three elements to vote against enlargement and a new agreement, which are legal, economic and ecological elements.
i hope that this agreement will be reached and that it will also be economically viable and not only ensure sustainability and the preservation of resources, but also have positive social and employment consequences for the signatories.
sustainability as an important part.
the socialist group and i personally are in full support of this for three fundamental reasons: firstly, because of the nature of our relations with morocco, fishing cannot be an exception; secondly, because of the impact that a disruption of activities on all sides could have, especially on the artisanal fleet - which is the most affected - and the workers; and thirdly, because we want to send a positive signal to morocco and to achieve a new protocol that is fair and balanced, that is in favour of the development of sustainable fisheries, and that preserves the rights of the parties and is mutually beneficial.
we are supposed to be looking for the same thing, which is the progress of the european union and, in this case, the pursuit of a project as far-reaching and as important as the financing of an experimental fusion reactor that can completely change the energy landscape in europe.
mr president, the portuguese government has just introduced a compulsory toll on the motorway linking the portuguese region of the algarve with the spanish region of andalusia, which has caused unanimous dissatisfaction and rejection on both the portuguese and spanish sides, since it is a road heavily travelled by europeans from both nations and from third countries, who use this area of privileged nature and climate as a place of habitual residence or holiday.
as the report rightly points out we will of course fully respect the right of our partners to establish their own levels of public policy protection in the areas of health, safety and the environment.
instead of wasting more public funds on the runaway iter budget, the eu should pull the plug and focus on funding safe and sustainable energy technologies that can deliver a return in the short-term, like energy efficiency and renewables.
there is a real risk that the council will again push for this funding to be included in the eu’s research budget, which would come at the expense of green technologies like renewables and energy efficiency.
i find it particularly interesting that the mobilization is taking place with such energy and determination in the times of recession and crisis in which we live, which have led to cuts of all kinds in the public budgets of many of the member states.
for democracy to be established and to last in our neighbouring countries, it must be accompanied by equitable and sustainable socioeconomic development.
i am therefore pleased that we have agreed to strengthen cooperation in such important areas as research, innovation and energy.
this is what the socialists have advocated in the committee on industry, research and energy, since these are sectors with the capacity to contribute to development and the creation of high value-added jobs.
i should also like to say a few words about three speeches by mrs ries, mr kelly and mrs nedelcheva, in which they referred to the need to promote and consume local products, because it is true that the european union - no matter in which country it is produced - is a consumer and producer power of packaged fruit and juice, and we should, in order to save co2 emissions into the atmosphere and to strengthen our position in times of crisis, especially in agriculture, maximise the consumption of our products.
the european union produces high-quality fruit juices which contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are manufactured according to the sustainability standards supported by our laws.
there were three reasons why we voted against: legal, ecological and economic.
and economically, because the profitability of the agreement has proved to be the worst of its kind and is a waste for european accounts.
emsa also contributes to maritime security and to environmental aspects of shipping.
the most operational forms are the network of pollution response vessels, the satellite tracking of illegal discharges by ships and the different systems to monitor maritime traffic.
the proposal we are discussing today already foresees that emsa’s pollution response capabilities ought to be made available in case of pollution caused by offshore installations.
i know that the parliament wants to go further in a couple of amendments giving emsa a role in the prevention of pollution by offshore installations, in the licensing process and in third-party oversight.
it is a commitment to comply with the environmental strategy and to support emsa's assistance when needed.
it is a response to problems of european concern such as the environmental disasters that generate these types of maritime accidents and the threats they pose to the lives and well-being of thousands of people.
the challenges we face are the harmonization and simplification of european legislation in areas such as safety, working conditions, driving times, the outsourcing of costs and the adaptation of disabled people, the opening up of markets, the strengthening of the motorways of the sea, the development of multimodality, the achievement of the single sky, the effort to prioritise and finance projects, and all in order to create a more sustainable single european area, with fewer road deaths, a more efficient, more innovative and more cohesive internal market.
but for the results of research to contribute to our energy policy objectives in terms of efficiency and renewable energy, they need to be accompanied by two types of measures which are also very important: firstly, measures to support actions aimed at promoting the market penetration of the resulting energy technologies and, secondly, measures to remove non-technological barriers, which could be confused with market failures, and to do so by strengthening capacity building, training, awareness-raising activities, and mobilising local investment and also the actors involved, as is the case with the islands pact.
the 'intelligent energy - europe' programme has so far met these objectives with remarkable success, as the various evaluations have shown; a programme which has also been noted for its support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
− madam president, all the questions asked and comments made expressed deep concern over the future of a programme which made a great contribution to energy efficiency and renewable energy across europe.
as many arguments concerning the use and contribution and value added of the intelligent energy europe ii programme had already been presented, i do not need to repeat them.
i can state with satisfaction that this is both relevant and useful, as it replies to the evolving needs, problems and periods relating to sustainable energy.
my answer is that we have to handle several targets: energy efficiency and renewable energy sources is one of them – a very serious one.
however, at the same time we have to respond to the question of energy security and solidarity.
this is why we have to share out money in order to reinforce energy efficiency: renewable, yes, but also transborder networks that are really contributing to energy security and solidarity on the continent, which is so dependent on deliveries from third countries which from time to time clearly display their monopoly power.
this is why the commission placed the programme-related activities as a dedicated energy component of a new framework programme.
i can assure you that energy efficiency and energy-renewable sources activities should be reinforced with more resources within the non-growing budget.
we have an external evaluation (so this is not just our feeling) of both the intelligent energy europe ii programme and the agency for competitiveness and innovation, so both would be better placed, in financial terms, in the 2014-2020 programme.
and i think that what we are doing in parliament at the moment is calling attention to the fact that an instrument which has had a history of success should not be lost to the theoretical solutions which, in principle, theoretically, may be more efficient but which, in any case, would be to cancel the development of an instrument which has really helped to make many programmes derive from it and have very important consequences for energy savings - i will not mention all of them, but there is no doubt that actions such as elena, solar keymark or greenlight are lines of success - and all of this is always based on a fundamental pillar, also in these times of particularly acute crises in europe, which is the axis of innovation.
and we are looking at a tool which has been useful precisely in developing innovation in the energy sector.
because in a europe which is poor in energy resources, it is essential that we know how to distinguish between the necessary consumption which drives the economy and the superfluous consumption.
only a sound and well-designed european energy policy, which is efficient and economical, can enable europe to move upright and in the right direction.
the various reports reflect the evolution of competition policy and its essential role in the sustainability of the european project.
it has concluded a number of ‘stand-by oil spill response vessel contracts’ with private operators who will switch from their regular activity into pollution response mode in case of emergency.
the commission proposal would make clear that such vessels could also be used to combat pollution from other sources, including oil rigs.
the creation of a single european transport area as a goal of the future european transport policy is thus directly linked to regional, environmental, economic, social, and employment policy.
the amendments asking for higher labour-social-ecological standards are crucial.