i would like to remind the new presidency that the european parliament has adopted two important documents about energy solidarity and safety which need to be implemented by the council.
i hope that the february european council will agree on a new european energy strategy.
this should also include plan for the baltic sea energy connections network.
secondly, we pursue solid environmental and maritime policies.
thirdly, our diplomacy in the fight against climate change addresses the core origin of arctic transformations.
when dealing with access to the arctic and the exploitation of its resources, we must live up to our reputation as a responsible consumer of raw materials and energy resources, adhering to the highest safety and environmental standards.
we seek to promote a safer, sustainable arctic.
both irresponsible use of resources and unplanned transport flows can have serious environmental consequences.
at the same time, it should be recognised that exploiting the arctic's wealth can open up new opportunities for solving both energy, raw materials and food problems.
climate change, the well-being and development of local populations, and energy security issues must also be taken into account.
although we do not have a direct maritime border with the arctic, the european union can become a leader in exploring the region, both in terms of its resources and new sea routes, and in ensuring high environmental safety standards.
even though the greens justifiably think that we should be even more radical, we are still glad that this report takes our worries and concerns into account, such as the proposals we made to the rapporteur concerning the fact that scientific data clearly demonstrates that the arctic ecosystem is currently going through massive climate-related changes and that this situation requires a precautionary and scientifically robust approach to be taken to any future development in the arctic.
that is why we called for further scientific studies, within the framework of a multilateral agreement to be completed, to inform international understanding and decision-making for the arctic ecosystem before any further major development goes ahead.
this is not because of climate change and the consequent warming-up of the normally cold high north.
i stress the need to create a fully integrated european energy market by 2015. can i hope that, in four years’ time, estonia, latvia and lithuania will cease to be isolated energy islands where gas supplies are concerned?
i also appeal to the council to safeguard sustainable local production of electricity by creating equal conditions for competition, both for eu and non-eu producers.
it is also time that the problem of carbon leakages in the electricity sector was addressed at eu level.
in the vote today, i supported the joint resolution by the four groups on the waste crisis in campania.
secondly, although i support today's resolution, i do not think that the european parliament should be the institution that has to deal with the collection of waste in the member states.
thirdly, the european union has directives on waste, hazardous waste and landfills, which must be applied throughout europe, regardless of the member state.
it is hard to envisage both foreign and domestic business investments in such a climate.
i believe that this report is necessary in view of the european union's objectives in relation to global warming and the reduction of emissions.
it is clear that the report aims to give a new impetus to the pension system in terms of its sustainability.
it is important that we pass such resolutions frequently enough to remind ourselves, the commission and the member states of our obligations to ensure a sustainable economy.
this is only possible with sustainable smes.
this has created a very nervous environment where we have to accept that rising food prices are driving up inflation, fuelling protectionism and creating unrest, all of which could lead to social, economic and political instability both in europe and globally.
the eu must find the means to ensure sustainable prices and a sustainable economy.
gender equality is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
investing in gender equality measures pays off in higher levels of female employment rates, women's contribution to gdp, higher tax revenues and sustainable birth rates.
the only proposal not to be supported was a proposal to ask the commission to examine the feasibility of an eu carbon tax, modelled on a vat, on every product in the internal market.
estonia has experience with, for example, renewable funds that guarantee risks instead of granting grants and direct aid.
however, the nuclear power plant alerts in fukushima have provoked an emotional debate over the use of nuclear energy in the european union in general.
fossil fuel resources are exhaustible and renewable energy is still very much experimental.
nuclear energy, on the other hand, could hold the key to our future.
in the current economic climate, a substantive and decisive political response is needed.
the four main objectives are to promote competitiveness, promote employment, enhance the sustainability of public financing and restore financial stability.
it is hoped that the introduction of uniform rules will also lead to a convergence of national perceptions, in particular on the sustainability of public financing, in order to avoid situations such as those experienced by greece and ireland in the future.
– mr president, a small country always causes a lot of headaches to the eu when it wants to join, and iceland’s headaches as we know are fisheries, the environment and everything else the commissioner mentioned.
the third gives support to inclusive and sustainable growth among our neighbours.
therefore, much more substantive coordination is needed in the areas of forestry, agriculture, renewable energy, biodiversity and other environmental policies.
gesine meissner and i, as liberal members of the european parliament, are sponsoring an electric car in the race in order to promote sustainable transportation.
with increasing consumption rates, the depletion of fossil fuels is becoming inevitable and we should therefore increase investment in further research and in the development of sustainable transportation.
furthermore, increasing mobility is taking its toll in terms of people’s carbon footprint, and that could accelerate global climate change.
the european union and its member states have the opportunity of becoming pioneers in green transportation by introducing incentives to the users of sustainable means of transport, and encouraging the transition to a carbon-free union.
this report introduces the 'polluter pays' principle, which means that the change in the rules on road transport taxation allows the real costs of air and noise pollution from lorries to be added to the taxes and fees levied on heavy goods vehicles for using motorways.
freezing the resources by member states will not be a sustainable option.
financing the new priorities – r&d, innovation, and energy and transportation networks – will be unrealistic while retaining the present level of resources.
second: the european union will impress upon russia that more progress needs to be made on agreeing substantial trade and investment provisions, including on energy, in the new eu-russia agreement in order to provide a solid legal basis for deepened economic cooperation in the years to come.
energy also figures prominently in our dealings with moscow.
we will also underline the need to cooperate on fighting climate change.
to pursue our goals of highest standards on nuclear safety, we interact with russia both at the bilateral level and in multilateral fora such as the international atomic energy agency and the g8.
as far as russia is concerned, its main objectives for the summit can be expected to focus on visas, the wto, energy – including nuclear safety – and security cooperation.
if we are committed to pursuing a partnership and cooperation agreement, then we should help mongolia overcome the problems that the country is facing in order to develop socially, economically and ecologically sustainable relations.
transport corridors, free movement of services, environmental issues).
madam president, i was not intending to waste the plenary’s time, but i was provoked by mr clark who said that another bureaucratic monster like the stasi will be created.
i am convinced that, despite any level of supervision, the fact is that gmos know no boundaries between farmland and state, and that a small human error is enough to upset the natural balance that already threatens our biodiversity.
− the aid granted to the danish wind turbine manufacturer glasfiber for the redundancies through the european globalisation adjustment fund is justified, but it is worrying that a company producing renewable energy technology is forced to close down its operations in a situation where renewable energy is one of the european union's top priorities.
i hope that germany's decision to switch to renewable energy and the efforts of other member states to increase the share of renewable energy will also give a new impetus to the whole european wind energy sector.
in the current situation where the eu and its member states are facing a rapidly growing number of cyber attacks, which could seriously affect european information, infrastructure and energy systems, where cyber crime is causing enormous costs, we need a european coordinating agency to develop and manage complex information systems to enhance european security.
less than a quarter of europeans (23%) agree that 'growing food from gmos is not harmful to the environment'; over 53% disagree.
your presidency of the council will be considered successful for your achievement in laying foundations for the common external energy policy.
such a policy of energy solidarity was initiated in this chamber four years ago by our colleague jacek saryusz-wolski.
recognising its work in developing recommendations for a sustainable growth model for the european union and in contributing to the establishment of the relevant mechanisms and coordinated policies.
– the ability and willingness to provide an environment for free elections is a cornerstone of the democratic functioning of any country.
i see this as a positive change that should encourage all parties to make a greater contribution to new environmentally friendly technologies, contributing to the achievement of european environmental objectives.
europe must take immediate and concrete action if we are to ensure a sustainable and developing society.
− as environmental impacts can be transboundary, a common eu strategy to respond to pollution from offshore oil and gas production is essential.
an entrepreneurial environment that supports women entrepreneurs also ensures positive outcomes.
today, e-services, even so-called shopping, are extremely popular, which makes the development of entrepreneurship in the online environment very promising.
it is probably true that because there is less integration into a particular job and a particular culture, there is probably less training and introduction into safety and health, and employees develop the understanding of their own particular working environment more slowly and on a lower level.
the success of the recovery from the economic crisis at large depends first and foremost on each and every member state and their strict and persistent adherence to the common rules as well as their dynamism in adapting to a different global economic environment.
− transparency and integrity are the core principles to be fully implemented in the european energy market.
energy deals and projects should be closely monitored and details made available to national and european energy authorities.
i very much welcome the recent statement by commissioner oettinger with the aim of increasing the role of the european commission in assessing energy deals, including ongoing projects.
this would both serve the aim of speaking with one voice, and also ensure that energy deals which mainly have an impact on the whole of europe are fully in line with eu principles and laws.
europe is highly dependent on external energy resources, and the only way to guarantee that eu law and eu security-of-supply aims are respected and followed is to ensure greater coherence, transparency and data-sharing on all levels.
− i supported this report because the transparency of the energy market, which would prevent unfair practices on wholesale energy markets, is in the interest of the development of the european economy and of all consumers.
of course, the unreasonably high price of energy is having a negative impact on the european economy and on consumers, whose incomes have fallen significantly since the economic crisis.
the existence of an eu-wide sector-specific regulatory framework in the energy sector is crucial to prevent market abuse and manipulation.
the report shows that for the second year in a row, petitioners were most concerned with the environment, which means that this is the area that raises the most concerns and questions for people in europe, and this is a clear signal to members of parliament.
− this report gives a good overview of the current situation in the republic of moldova, giving an overview of the progress made and of what needs to be emphasised more, such as improving the business environment, fighting corruption, developing civil society, etc.
in any case the eu should not miss out on enhancing trade relations with taiwan, which has indeed become a rapidly growing market, but not at the expense of the environment or the socio-economic rights of the labour force.
i also support the proposal in the report, which takes into account the public interest and social and environmental considerations, to introduce a lower vat rate or a zero rate for public transport (urban, suburban and regional).
secondly, i would like to point out that issuing european sovereign bonds without a strong commitment by the member states in their monetary and fiscal sector will create even bigger problems and cannot be considered as a sustainable solution in the long term.
− to increase the inclusion of people with disabilities in employment and to promote a sustainable society, member states should develop and implement a disability policy.
the demographic future of europe is not a bright one and, having discussed this situation, we adopted a resolution in this house in 2008 calling for action on the length and protection of maternity leave, convinced that appropriate policies can influence the birth rate curve by creating a materially and psychologically favourable environment for the family.
the situation of european railways varies greatly from one member state to another, as many member states are contributing more to the development of a rail network that is more environmentally sustainable than road transport.
− i support the positions expressed in the resolution, considering it important that the eu should continue to fight for the kyoto protocol and keep co2 emissions under control beyond 2012. it is regrettable that many advanced industrial nations, such as the united states and australia, have not joined the kyoto protocol to date, fearing the negative impact on the economy.
that is why i also support the proposal to accelerate the pace of reducing greenhouse gases.
the eu and us have launched the eu-us innovation action partnership, which is a framework for developing trade policy strategies to eliminate barriers and to improve the investment and innovation climate by working together on research, recycling, use, transport and extraction of raw materials.
four work streams were proposed by the tabd in their letter of 10 may: trade, material flaws research, recycling and waste.
obviously the eu cannot complete the agreement while the russian government is breaking international agreements with the council of europe and the osce, and is selectively implementing the energy charter treaty.
the internal transport market is not yet fully developed and solutions must be sought to better meet the travel needs of citizens and the freight needs of the economy, while increasing resource and environmental constraints.
despite the fact that transport has become more energy efficient, 96% of the eu's energy needs are still dependent on oil and oil products.
transport has become more environmentally friendly, but due to increased volumes, it is still a major source of noise and local air pollution.
environmental constraints are often portrayed in the transport sector as a confusing and costly issue, but we need to look beyond this - it is a driver of innovation and innovation, which also means a better living environment for our citizens.
in its 8 years of operation, emsa has done effective work in the field of both maritime safety and marine pollution.
the internal transport market is not yet fully developed and solutions must be sought to better meet the travel needs of citizens and the freight needs of the economy, while increasing resource and environmental constraints.
despite the fact that transport has become more energy efficient, 96% of its energy needs in the eu still depend on oil and oil products.
transport has become more environmentally friendly, but due to increased volumes, it is still a major source of noise and local air pollution.
environmental constraints are often portrayed in the transport sector as a confusing and costly issue, but we need to look beyond this - it is a driver of innovation and innovation, which also means a better living environment for our citizens.