that is more than the commission estimates it would cost to tighten our greenhouse gas emission reduction target to 30%.
we know that according to some studies we even carry our cultural heritage in our dna, but we should ensure that the child can have a good and loving home and a cultural environment in which he can grow and develop as a balanced human being and citizen.
climate change and competition for these resources are interrelated, but the real engine of development is the global economy.
but it is not a 'framework around the neck' that will get us there, but diplomacy, negotiation and strong political cooperation, and above all, being at the forefront of environmental impact assessment.
the report strongly advocates that in the future a strong investment be made in the living and working conditions, transport and environment of the people of the arctic.
i will vote in favour of this report, but my main criticism is of the climate change arguments, which are supposed to be agreed on an eu-wide basis.
the eu emissions trading scheme has been a complete failure.
simply put, this type of emissions trading is not working, it is harmful.
instead, we need a system of emissions tracking, like the one we have in cars, where we can measure who is emitting and what is emitted, and not have an international trade in buying the rights to pollute.
mr president, the wealth of the arctic is not only its vast energy resources and new shipping routes, but also its indigenous population.
in the future, of course, we will see a lot of mining, industry and shipping, which will increase the threat of environmental disasters.
we need bold visions and cooperation, but also financial incentives, so that the people living in the region can make sustainable use of the opportunities offered by their territories.
i would like to thank mr gahler and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent and comprehensive report which balances the potential of the northern arctic region, its vast natural resources, raw materials and energy, new transport routes and tourism, with the vulnerability of the fragile arctic nature and the rights of indigenous peoples.
i would like to thank mr gahler for this excellent report, which takes very well into account the needs of the northernmost regions of the european union and the need for sustainable development there.
i noticed that the report took account of the climate and the economy, such as reindeer herding, which is a very important industry in that area.
we know that a great deal of electronic waste, and particularly small waste such as mobile phones, has unfortunately ended up in landfills not only within our own territory but also in third countries and, ultimately, in incineration.
this important tool is therefore a good step in the right direction for the recycling of electronic waste, so that we can guarantee better resource efficiency and the return of raw materials back to the manufacturers.
mr president, it is very important to work at european level towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems.
so we certainly have to rethink systems to deal with this situation in a way that is sustainable for all.
to be able to respond to these challenges in a sustainable and human rights-based way, we need a holistic vision and policy.
food prices and their development are affected by a number of critical issues in global agriculture, such as climate change, energy policy and the availability and efficiency of natural resources.
we need a food policy which critically assesses the whole food production chain and takes account of its impact on health and the environment.
the creation of a sustainable food policy is one of the most important issues facing the european union today.
i would have liked to see more emphasis in this report on the financing of international climate action, although i am also a strong supporter of a transaction tax.
as regards climate finance, a working group set up by the un secretary-general last year proposed a carbon tax on international shipping emissions as one of the options.
in the context of the 2008 climate package, we decided that if the international maritime organisation (imo) had not established an international system to curb emissions from shipping by the end of this year, the eu would take its own action, similar to that taken in the case of aviation.
a carbon tax on shipping to and from the eu would also be an internationally significant measure, accounting for one third of all international shipping traffic and providing a stable source of funding for developing countries for their climate action.
as we have heard in previous speeches, it creates a very important demarcated area for the european union, covering issues such as fisheries, transport and energy.
as mentioned, these macro-regional strategies have a lot to offer, particularly in the transport, business and energy sectors.
we must look ahead in industrial policy and create a sustainable industrial policy based on our own european strengths and regional resources.
regional structures can support a sustainable industrial policy in europe, and therefore there is a need to put more emphasis on innovative clusters and large-scale cooperation between different actors, educational institutions and businesses.
we must not waste time, we must move from words to deeds.
it is the only way to ensure that these can be carried forward in a sustainable manner and that we can maintain our credibility as a watchdog of human rights in europe and beyond.
due to the city's strategic location, the chinese government is now seeking to control the area more effectively to secure better access to the central asian energy market.
for the verts/ale group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the climate package, we have decided that the carbon footprint of transport fuels must be reduced by 6% by 2020. it would be completely contradictory and unwise to ignore the most polluting fuels, such as oil sands, while encouraging their production in other parts of the world, not only in canada but also in africa.
it is clear that the carbon footprint of oil from oil sands and oil shale must have its own default values.
europe needs a comprehensive preventive plan covering security, regional cooperation, trade policy, climate change, the protection of human rights and the development of democracy.
it is also important to note that the harmonisation of fisheries policy, in particular with environmental and maritime policy, is a major priority and requires resources.
the commission's approach has been ambitious and there are very important projects under way: the european patent, the common energy market, etc.
these are the promotion of competitiveness, the social market economy and sustainable development.
the commission should therefore explore alternative energy solutions for the future, while taking into account the different energy needs of the eu member states.
i believe that investment in nuclear power must not reduce research and development in renewable energy sources.
a panic reaction in europe is therefore not only ridiculous, it could also damage the environment because there is no credible supply of a low-carbon alternative to nuclear energy, and fossil fuels will prosper.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
we do not want to prohibit the development of a technology that contributes to the eu's objective of reducing its carbon dioxide emissions.
efforts to create stability are not bearing fruit in a political climate such as the present one.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the poor implementation of the waste export regulation has been a serious problem for a long time.
this has been highlighted by the european union network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental law since 2003 and has provided clear suggestions for improvement.
for more than a decade, parliament has called for stricter controls, including legislation on european controls: in the 1999 jackson report on minimum control requirements, in the 2003 blokland report on the reform of waste export legislation and in the 2008 resolution on minimum control requirements.
in 2006, we were shocked by the huge trafigura scandal, when large amounts of toxic waste were dumped in côte d'ivoire.
the commissioner for the environment, dimas, promised to look for ways to strengthen the waste export regulation and its implementation in the member states, but nothing concrete happened.
two years ago, a commission study recommended the creation of a specific agency for the enforcement of waste legislation, which would carry out a number of tasks, such as checking member states' control systems, coordinating controls and inspections, but no proposal has been made.
last year, a commission study concluded that the best option would be a legal instrument for the criteria for inspections, but no proposal has been made, despite commissioner potočnik's statement that enforcement of eu environmental legislation is his priority.
but our common european values allow us to build a european foreign policy based on sustainable development and human rights.
it is important that the commission includes legally binding clauses on human rights, social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in the fta and monitors that these requirements are also met.
− today it was an easy task to vote for the report on forest protection and information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change.
the eu forests are now facing more pressure than ever before, not necessarily because of climate change but rather because of some of the decisions made in the eu to combat it.
the fact that we now have requested within this report legally binding sustainability criteria on energy-creating biomass is an important initiative.
if we consider forests solely as a source of renewable energy, we totally have missed the point of combining sustainable industry and environment protection.
forests are an important source of livelihood and well-being within our borders, therefore this valuable natural source should be used for production rather than short-sighted energy.
one should also remember that the wood products themselves tie carbon during their whole life cycle, therefore we should avoid any corner-cutting in trying to reach our renewable goals.
i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy committee (itre), as well as the members of the seven committees that delivered their opinions to itre.
innovation has been placed at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the committee stresses that innovation policy should be seen in a broad sense, not only as technical innovation but also, as in the past, more as social and service innovation, which helps to solve societal challenges, including the challenges of ageing and health care, as well as changes in the environment, climate and energy efficiency.
the first years of life provide all the basic conditions for human life, and it can therefore be said that if there is a safe basic education, if there is a safe environment, then the child has the chance of succeeding in the future.
this environmental accounting regulation is very important, as has already been stated here on several occasions, because it finally provides the legal basis for an accounting system integrating environmental and economic statistics which are of major importance for environmental policy and for social policy in general.
as regards the scope, it is very important that the first stage of the allocation should be specifically focused on emissions, material flows and environmental taxes.
i think it is extremely important that heavy transport is included when we talk about climate change and sustainable development.
in this way we can show the public that we are really concerned about the problems caused by heavy vehicle emissions, especially during peak hours, on busy roads.
− egnos and galileo systems, when completed, will increase security in the environment through a number of applications.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in europe, particulate matter from energy use is already killing 300,000 people a year.
the development of the investment climate and the rule of law are an essential part of russia's development.
even madagascar's natural wealth and renewable resources have not contributed to prosperity.
in addition to the human suffering of the people, madagascar's biodiversity is also threatened.
the answer to the global problems of agriculture is not to be found in increasing european production but in a broader equation that takes account of economic, social and environmental issues.
we have to understand that every euro used in paying interest on the public debt is one which does not go towards investment in education, social security and other fields that provide a necessary environment for the good development of the economy and for the well-being of the people.
mr president, european climate and energy policy has been marked by a multitude of irrational solutions.
an emissions trading system has been created that artificially increases the price of electricity and increases costs with little climate or environmental benefit.
the renewable energy targets have been set on such an unrealistic timetable that it is jeopardising sustainable forestry.
in the light of these examples, i cannot understand parliament's willingness to further increase our unilateral emission reduction target, whose environmental benefits are globally minimal compared to the burden on our industry and jobs.
with germany now announcing that it will phase out nuclear power, it is clear that the eu will not be able to meet its emissions reduction targets due to the increasing use of fossil fuels.
the employers and the producers are the ones who pay the price, while emissions continue to rise outside our borders.
it is clear that we do not receive global support for binding emission cuts, so the emphasis must be on technological solutions and the problem of the ridiculous parts: a different strategy is needed to control the drivers of climate change.
short-lived ones are black carbon, aerosols, methane and atmospheric ozone, which behave differently from long-lived ones, such as carbon dioxide, hydrocarbons or nitrogen oxides.
if we focus on just one, carbon dioxide, it shows that we don't understand the diversity of the problem.
it is important that farmers are involved in sustainable environmental policy, but how is this greening to be done?
it must not add to the bureaucracy, it must not increase the costs of the producers, and it must take account of the different situations in the member states, and if it succeeds in this way when the commission makes detailed proposals afterwards, then we are on the right track and can rejoice together that farmers are involved in the environmental campaigns.
we should also remember that when we talk about the financial framework and the budget, we have to invest in innovation so that we can find the energy-efficient solutions and the new innovations that will enable us to achieve this.
i would like to say, mr president, that we all agree with the eickhout report that we must do our utmost to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we must remember that european emissions account for about 10% of the world's total.
we need european industry, it is committed to the 20-20-20 targets, and we must stick to it and get the rest of the world involved in these environmental agreements.
- mr president, for once i am happy after the vote in parliament on climate action.
the vote and the failure of the report send a clear signal to the member states and to those outside the eu that parliament too is serious about the fight against climate change, because we are not prepared for anything.
− an adequate, reliable and functioning energy infrastructure is a prerequisite for the implementation of the eu's overall economic strategy.
responding to climate change, strengthening security of supply and energy independence, and reducing total energy consumption are key elements in future eu energy strategies and require effective preparation now.
unfortunately, the situation is not very good at the moment: the eu is paying a heavy price for an outdated and poorly connected energy infrastructure in many ways.
in the longer term, the eu's co2 emissions reduction target also creates a need for development, as electricity use will increase radically and pressures for large-scale storage and transport will increase.
similarly, the development of renewable energy sources requires strong investment in smart, efficient and competitive energy networks to avoid supply disruptions and unnecessary waste.
the best way to do this is to invest in research and innovation, especially in new forms of energy.
it is also good that there is more emphasis on conditionality in regional policy and on these new areas of innovation, the green economy, energy efficiency and so on.
making cuts in that field is not a sustainable future road to go down.
i would hope that the commission would come up with a sustainable programme to eradicate this poverty so that people do not have to queue for food.
the sustainability of financing of health care and public services, the decline in population and attractiveness of certain regions, and the pressure on pension funds are discussed.
it would be good if the commission could better understand the extent to which we are able to exploit these european mineral deposits and take account of the fact that their exploitation in a sustainable way would reduce the need to import our raw materials from third countries.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of forests as a source of raw materials and energy for the future.
– raw materials policy is a vital part of the eu’s industrial policy, ensuring competitiveness of european companies, sustainability of raw materials’ use and security of supply.
article 15 calls for a study on the effects of a tax on water and land use, which would hurt our sustainable forest industries.
this would make wood-based products more expensive than metals and minerals, and at times when substituting high-carbon products with low-carbon wood products forms a partial answer in the fight against climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
however, the regulatory systems at union level are already so developed that control and environmental protection methods should be promoted mainly on a local basis, taking into account the technical conditions.
furthermore, oil and gas drilling is not evenly distributed across the union, but takes place mainly in the north sea, which means that specific actions must be created taking into account the location and the environment.
while it is good to remember the financial responsibility of the member states for possible environmental damage, instead of mandatory compensation and guarantee schemes, attention should be focused on prevention of damage and minimisation of risk factors.
an important part of ensuring the safety of oil and gas drilling is our responsibility towards the environment.
combating climate change and minimising the release of toxins into the environment are important priorities.
the european union must therefore create sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions without losing its competitiveness alongside other major economies.
we know that rapidly acting greenhouse gas emissions should be turned into cash by 2015. to avoid any chance of that, action must also be taken swiftly on other greenhouse gases than carbon dioxide.
the commission has already stated that in many cases it is possible to reduce emissions of these gases at a much lower cost than co2, up to 100 times less than the climate impact.
chris davis has already pointed out that the global warming effect of f-gases is up to a thousand times greater than that of carbon dioxide.
we know that their share of global warming emissions is increasing, so there is a sense of urgency to limit them.
we have already heard examples of better and more climate-friendly alternatives for many purposes, and scientists and engineers are constantly developing more.
i am very pleased, mr president, mr commissioner, that the european parliament is taking a more comprehensive position on climate policy, also with this statement.
when we talk about climate change, we often focus too much on reducing co2 emissions, when we should be focusing on much broader issues.
europe and other continents must also strive to reduce other greenhouse gas emissions in addition to carbon dioxide.
we have very good examples in history of successful climate agreements, such as the montreal protocol, which prevented large-scale ozone depletion and at the same time significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
for example, an hfc refrigerant that is more ozone-friendly is not climate-friendly.
people are buying more and more refrigerators and air conditioners, so we in europe must also invest more in the development of climate-friendly refrigeration equipment.
it must be remembered that energy efficiency, and in the case of refrigerators, food safety, must also be strictly adhered to.
the european external action service must therefore make every effort to bring about a ceasefire and demonstrate that only a political solution is a sustainable way to achieve peace in sudan.
the number of hungry people is still alarming, owing to increased drought, food price speculation and the loss of biodiversity.
the unregulated exploitation of farmland has contributed to the reduction of sustainable development opportunities, particularly in many african countries.
for the eu to contribute to building more sustainable food security in the poorest countries, we need political action that safeguards the right of local workers to work, the production of food sufficient for each country's own needs, the reduction of corruption and the safeguarding of the control of arable land for the country's own citizens, taking into account environmental considerations.
the eu must therefore actively promote a more sustainable land ownership policy, both in its own development cooperation and in multilateral negotiations.
it may be that in the future china will put pressure on europe to accept lower environmental standards, weaker consumer protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in rio, just after the end of the cold war, there were high hopes for a shift towards sustainable development, but the results, for example in terms of climate change and biodiversity protection, have been far too little.
it is important that the european union should present a common position and common objectives at the rio conference on the environment for sustainable development.
this is also a prerequisite for sustainable development and for reducing poverty in the world.
for my part, i would like rio to promote sustainable consumption and production and to find solutions to a greener economy and greener energy.
a sustainable and environmentally friendly society must also always respect fundamental rights, cultural and religious diversity and ensure the realisation of equality.
the un conference on sustainable development can be an important meeting and a guiding light, but only if it can produce concrete results and proposals that are also implemented.
− the rio+20 resolution we have just voted on is an important part of the eu's common position ahead of the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio in june 2012. it is regrettable, however, that many of us were tempted to involve ourselves in the preparation of the resolution on matters which are part of the eu's internal policy and on which there is no common eu position.
i would like to stress that, although the fukushima accident was very regrettable, the technology and knowledge of nuclear power as we know it today will continue to be of invaluable help in the fight against climate change.
if nuclear power were to be banned altogether now, in a hurry and with a bang, the consequences of fossil fuels would increase explosively because there is not yet a credible fossil-free form of energy available to compete with nuclear power.
the actual death toll from the fukushima accident will only be known years from now, when calculations are made of how the increase in fossil fuels as a result of the urgent abandonment of nuclear power has affected, among other things, the increase in air pollution and deaths from fine particles.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the principle already enshrined in parliament's report is particularly important, namely that the criterion of the lowest price should not be the dominant one, but that we need a much more ambitious criterion combining economic, ecological and social benefits.
i fully understand that in the current economic climate, projects requiring new funding are challenging.
china has ratified international treaties which should at least guarantee freedom of religion and other basic human rights for all its citizens, but also avoid actions that threaten the tibetan language, culture, religion, heritage and environment.
it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that gambling activities can be ethically sustainable.
and i ask in particular whether the commission, in drawing up the proposal, has taken account of the poor ecological state of the baltic sea and the fact that the baltic sea is the most polluted sea area in the world?
these cause eutrophication, which is the biggest environmental problem in the baltic sea.
it is of course a fact that there are also other sources, but these other sources, like waste water from cities and industry, have been cleaned up a lot, and agriculture lags far behind these measures.
without new measures in agriculture there is no hope of improving the very bad current ecological situation.
the only way to respond to the economic crisis is to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and in research and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has already referred to the recent warning by the international energy agency that the window of opportunity to keep climate change below two degrees will close in a few years.
all governments must step up their climate action and end, with immediate effect, subsidies to fossil fuels, which the iea says are six times greater than subsidies to renewable energy.
one of the key issues in the climate negotiations is the financing of climate action by developing countries.
it is in our interest that the emissions for which this funding is needed actually occur, that is to say, the emission reductions of the developing countries themselves and also the adaptation measures.
the eu should increase its international climate finance to €30 billion by the end of the decade.
if we fail to solve the climate crisis, that is it.
we also need our own commitment: a road map for moving to a competitive, low carbon economy in 2050. this is beneficial for us.
mr president, the estimated error rate for the cohesion policy, energy and transport policy group is 7.7% according to the annual report.
the european union has an important role to play at the durban climate conference.
the recession or economic crisis gripping europe should not be used as an excuse for inaction on environmental issues of global importance.
while the un target would radically limit global warming, the un reports say that industrialized countries should be able to reduce their emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020. there is no certainty that the previously set target of 20% emission reductions by 2020 would be sufficient.
it is important that durban ensures the continuation of the kyoto climate agreement to reduce carbon dioxide emissions beyond 2012. europe has the potential to show leadership and role model in durban.
the kyoto protocol, which is a binding international agreement, should continue to oblige industrialised countries to commit themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
as a result of the international atomic energy agency’s report, there have been indications that iran may have a military dimension in its nuclear technology development.
sustainable peace, human rights and fundamental freedoms can only be guaranteed in the world by promoting justice, the rule of law and impunity.
at the moment we can say that nuclear power is quite safe compared to many other forms of energy.
looking ahead, it is important that we can also get nuclear energy investments in europe, because nuclear power is clean, safe and therefore also climate and user friendly, and so we can really get the cheap and affordable energy we need for industry.
democracy, human rights, freedom of opinion, the rule of law - these are the things that we should uphold, and this provides a natural starting point for further strengthening our cooperation on both the front of sustainable economic growth and employment, and thus ensuring that our citizens can also obtain sustainable material and economic prosperity in return for these spiritual values.
respect for religious freedom, the prohibition of torture, the rights of minorities and other universal human rights is the only sustainable basis for social balance.
and it is precisely when we talk about growth that we need to create sustainable growth, sustainable competitiveness, and i believe that this rests on strong education.
i think it is unnecessary to devote a lot of energy to this right now, when we should instead be devoting energy to solving the actual crisis.
i personally do not think it is worthwhile at the present time to devote energy to discussing the codecision procedure, because that is not the problem at the moment.
however, they need to be economically and ecologically far more sustainable than they are today.
unfortunately, as we can see from the very good ex-post evaluation report, we have an agreement in front of us that is economically far from sustainable.
on top of this, of course, there are the ecological aspects and i actually find them far more troubling.
the agreement raises concerns about the sustainable use of fisheries resources.
the eu must defend both the principles of international law and the sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide.
i hope that the commission will draw up a more economically efficient agreement which takes account of both ecological aspects and the rights of the sahrawi people of western sahara.
energy security is one of europe's greatest challenges.
the european union is in a difficult situation, because cooperation with russia in the fields of energy and trade is vital for the whole of europe, but at the same time it is not compatible with european values to distort democracy.
this is more a question of the fisheries agreement and our duty to look at the sustainability of the agreement.