this is dramatic from the point of view of biodiversity: only a few thousand plant and animal species are endangered, while the most affected forests - tropical forests - comprise half of the world's biodiversity.
this is of course also dramatic from the point of view of climate change: deforestation contributes up to 20% to the greenhouse effect.
but first, before we go into these agreements and the questions in parliament, we must make a distinction between legal and sustainable timber.
of course, we are talking about the legality of timber here, but the legality of timber does not mean the sustainability of logging.
you know that parliament has asked you to include these issues in the criteria for assessing the sustainability of agrofuels.
basically we are talking about starting to work together for sustainable management of forestry resources.
there are risks but this is the only way, in my opinion, to achieve really sustainable management of this resource, because if we do not do this, we will not manage to be successful through declarations alone.
illegal logging also has extremely negative consequences for indigenous peoples, for biodiversity and in terms of climate change.
the climate change issue is another concern for everyone, and the protection of forests needs to start somewhere.
the recent agreement in cancún on action to reduce emissions due to deforestation and forest degradation (known as ‘redd’) will facilitate further commission support for developing countries.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these partnership agreements between the european union, cameroon and the congo should in principle be good news for these populations, good news for biodiversity.
it is not only trade that affects forests: the forest is an energy resource for these countries, and population growth also has an impact on the forest.
that is where we come in with sustainable forest management: we are talking about congo-brazzaville (the republic of the congo) and cameroon today, but we are also working with the democratic republic of the congo and with indonesia.
we should also consider the global commitment to fight climate change.
we are not the only ones who would like the world to be fair and sustainable, and other parts of the world will learn from us.
let us take, for example, energy efficiency drives.
i think we have all been working in the same direction: to recall this essential point through the vpa, which is the link between development, the environment and the strengthening of civil society.
i believe that today, if there is a lever on which we can build sustainable development in these countries, especially african countries, it is obviously the strengthening of civil society.
why should we have to meet the criteria of strong cooperation with europe, social, democratic and environmental criteria, when china offers us a freeway in terms of corruption or pillage?
these agreements will help to ensure good forest governance by granting a flegt licence to forest products from these countries and thus ensuring sustainable exploitation and management of forests.
these vpas will help to preserve the forests of these countries by fighting illegal logging, which is responsible for significant environmental, economic and social damage.
on the other hand, you have consistently refused to discuss the establishment of a social and environmental development fund, supported by a tax on capital movements, by upward harmonization of capital taxation, by the creation of a monetary european central bank to buy back the debts of states and by the development of public services essential to social justice and progress.
but the ecological efficiency is being undermined by the restrictions imposed on it!
environmental issues add to the complexity and importance of the problem.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
we'll continue to eat strawberries in the winter, whether they come from the southern hemisphere or from energy- and water-intensive greenhouses.
but the relocation and end of productivism, necessary for food self-sufficiency and the preservation of biodiversity, is still far off.
sustainable, safe and equitable agriculture faces many challenges: adapting to climate change, managing the effects of globalisation, preserving biodiversity, maintaining farmers' living standards and ensuring our food independence in a highly stressed global market.
for medical reasons, we know that it's best not to disturb the patients in their environment.
a change in the environment can aggravate the disease and its symptoms and make things much more difficult.
one of our absolute priorities must be to allow patients to remain in their usual environment for as long as possible.
the european union and the united states would do well to learn from the cuban example rather than indulge in media spectacles that hide a charitable conception of aid which, in the end, serves above all their economic and political interests to the detriment of a sustainable reconstruction of the haitian state and its economy.
in haiti, humanitarian intervention shows its inability to implement sustainable solutions for the people.
innovation and energy – especially energy security – are key in this regard.
it recognised the important role the europe 2020 strategy will also have in returning europe to sustainable growth.
it is more than anything a matter of prioritising and some areas – innovation, education, new forms of energy – are good candidates for such priority treatment.
that means investing in areas that derive growth, unleashing the full potential of our single market, increasing investment in energy, transport and it infrastructure – in part through innovative financing, including, we believe, the european union project bonds – and continuing to press for a conclusion of the doha round, while pushing forward free trade agreements with key partners.
only by sorting out our debt and stabilising finances can we move from crisis management to fostering growth – not any kind of growth of course, but sustainable, inclusive growth.
my group wants the community approach to be favoured over the intergovernmental approach in all these areas of action, simply because it is much more effective and much more sustainable.
a fruitful partnership is particularly important in the areas of financial services, economic governance, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, energy and the internal market.
following the public consultation launched by the commission on the single market act, the eu institutions will be asked to agree on a definitive action plan to be realised by the end of 2012. energy will also be an important area in the coming months and already at the european council meeting on 4 february.
the commission already has a series of important energy initiatives on the table which will feed into the february european council.
these include the energy agenda 2020, our communication on energy infrastructure priorities.
we will soon be adopting a ‘resource-efficient europe’ flagship initiative in which energy also features strongly.
the commission intends to develop its work around the following five axes: a strong energy policy as a key to competitive and sustainable growth and energy security; the internal market in energy as an asset; building the european union’s new energy infrastructure; making decisive progress on energy efficiency; and developing an effective and united new approach to external energy policy.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr viktor orbán, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council of ministers has rarely had to face so many challenges: the challenge of the euro, which we must stabilise; the challenge of employment, which requires stronger growth and therefore a more efficient economy; the challenge of energy independence and food security, while the prices of raw materials are rising alarmingly.
mr president-in-office of the council, you have identified the establishment of a common energy policy as one of your major priorities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in addition, deforestation is increasing by 13 million hectares each year and is estimated to account for 20% of global co2 emissions.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
the establishment of bilateral voluntary partnership agreements against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanctioning mechanism for all environmental crimes.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
the establishment of the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanction mechanism for all environmental crimes.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
the establishment of the eu-congo voluntary partnership agreement against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanction mechanism for all environmental crimes.
these international agreements aim to ensure the traceability of timber exported to the eu, in order to combat deforestation and preserve biodiversity, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples.
these attacks, carried out in the name of extremist obscurantism from another age, are designed to create a climate of fear, and ultimately, it is the survival of these millennial communities that is directly threatened.
the union must play its role as a world power by asserting both its interests in the region and the need for good international governance of natural resources and the ecological challenges that will not be lacking.
i voted in favour of the report on a sustainable european policy in the far north, which stresses the need for dialogue with arctic communities in order to gain a better understanding of the living conditions and culture of indigenous communities.
i therefore deplore the european regulation on the ban on seal products, which is contrary to the interests of the arctic communities in terms of sustainable resource management and culture and customs.
the text supports the sustainable exploitation of the arctic but relieves oil and gas companies of any responsibility in this area.
worse still, it is not at all planning to limit investment in the exploitation of the fossil resources of the far north in favour of research into renewable energies.
this report validates the ecological crime.
the european union's black sea strategy is entirely devoted to the development of the nabucco pipeline and the establishment of a free trade area ensuring its energy security and hegemony over the region.
the fight against the ecological disaster in progress is being put on the back burner, as are the social and economic interests of the peoples of the region.
will it understand that european answers are sought in good faith to european challenges - the euro, energy, research and innovation, employment?
if this is true of employment and the economy, it is also true of energy, which the european council will also be dealing with this friday.
more europe means, first of all, fully implementing the existing laws in the field of the internal energy market.
it cannot be said enough that fully operating this market will make us more competitive, ensure security of supply and guarantee a substantial increase in the production of renewable energy.
more europe also means pushing our member states to win the bet of a 20% increase in their energy efficiency by 2020. they set that goal for themselves.
finally, more europe in the energy sector means more investment.
safe and clean energy is as essential for europe as a policy of research and development and a policy of industrial innovation.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we will not have social progress without growth, and we will not have growth without energy.
energy is at the heart of the european social pact for prosperity.
50% of energy supplies come from outside the union.
this is our energy, this is the assurance we owe to the citizens.
it is a safe technology, a sustainable technology, a free technology, an infinite technology.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
the european union must commit itself not only to carrying out an impact study of these agreements, but also to modifying its legislation accordingly in order to promote sustainable production and economies.
if only we could see the same eagerness on the part of the leaders to save the global agreements for environmental protection, the harmonization from above of labour rights and living standards.
i therefore call on the council to take a swift decision on parliament's new proposal for these acp countries to benefit from the measures announced for 2010 and i ask the commission to ensure that the reciprocal social and environmental requirements are respected by the non-acp producing and exporting countries.
we will therefore have to monitor the real impact of financial assistance, which is intended to support investment, economic diversification policies and to enhance social and environmental impact.
at a time when europe is discussing a common strategy for its supply of raw materials, and especially of rare earths, we cannot ignore the immense potential of the intelligent recovery of our waste.
but we cannot clear the citizen for the waste he produces.
our citizens must be actors, not spectators, of european environmental policy.
once again, brussels has bowed to non-european interests and abandoned the principles it claims to defend in terms of development, social or environmental clauses, support for its overseas territories ... no principle, no value, can stand up to the will to impose the laws of the market and free trade on all nations, regardless of the economic and social consequences.
let us apply community preference, let us impose our social, environmental and safety standards on those who want to import into our country.
the history of international trade proves that the trend towards monoculture was not a viable and sustainable model of economic development.
it doesn't say anything about their environmental crimes.
whether in economic or ecological terms, waste management has become a major issue in our consumer society.
this plenary session devotes a great deal of attention to the recycling of waste in europe: with the directive on electrical and electronic waste and the resolution on waste management in campania, we have decided on a subject which is both technical and political.
it will not surprise anyone to hear that we are producing more electrical and electronic waste every year.
only a third of the 9 million tonnes of such waste produced each year is currently recycled.
the aim of this directive is to improve this rate, to put an end to waste, but it is also a question of strengthening the responsibility of producers.
consumers, who are already heavily involved in waste management, must be accompanied and assisted in this task by retailers and sellers of products.
of the nine million tonnes of electrical and electronic waste produced each year in europe, only one third is properly collected and treated.
it is more than urgent to promote the reuse, recycling and recovery of all this waste.
member states will also have to ensure that distributors have appropriate collection and awareness-raising systems in place for certain widespread types of waste such as used mobile phones, which are currently under-recycled.
we need to have an ambitious management of electrical and electronic waste, which involves both public authorities, industry and consumers, all of whom must be held accountable.
i particularly support the strict rules that have been put in place against the illegal shipment of potentially hazardous waste to developing countries.
i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which aims to improve the text currently in force.
the development of the most effective possible criteria is necessary in view of the increasing production of such devices and their health and environmental impacts when not treated at the end of their life.
we call for the creation of new targets for the collection, recycling and reuse of waste, some of which is of interest as a recoverable raw material.
so this waste must be treated, not exported to developing countries, often in dangerous conditions.
with more inspections, we hope to limit the volume of e-waste falsely declared as "reusable".
while the vote on the directive on the management of electrical and electronic waste was rather technical, the vote on the resolution on the waste crisis in campania is a highly political vote.
in rejecting the epp amendments which would have distorted the text, parliament voted by a majority for italy to comply with european waste management rules!
the health and environmental situation in this region is already very alarming.
it is unthinkable that we should see a europe with increasingly strict health and environmental rules develop on the one hand and areas that are exempt from any regulations on the other.
the waste crisis in campania and other regions of italy illustrates the danger of the management of our environment by companies guided by the logic of profit alone.
meanwhile, the people and our entire ecosystem are drinking to the complicit silence of the eurocrats.
the dramatic situation regarding waste management in campania is not changing the progress made seems to me to be extremely minimal and this despite the protests of the citizens.
i therefore support the european parliament's resolution on the waste crisis in campania.
it would therefore be useful to have real studies of the impact of the application of this directive in terms of employment, life in the regions and also consumer prices, since everyone can see that energy prices, like those of transport, keep rising when we were told that competition would bring them down.
yes, of course, there is climate change, but when it comes to commercial vehicles, these are vehicles that we don't buy for driving pleasure or for passion, they are vehicles that we use as a work tool, which makes this target of 147 grams of co2 for 2020 a fair balance.
the automobile industry, which has fought against this text, and we have just seen some more examples of this, has clearly not realised that it has a vested interest in being at the forefront of reducing emissions, especially since the study by the transport and environment association last november showed that technological solutions exist.
it notes that car manufacturers in europe reduced co2 emissions from passenger cars by between 2% and 10% in 2009, with a japanese manufacturer almost reaching its target six years ahead of schedule.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his position and i note that parliament is in the right position between a commission which was very ambitious, a council which was, as usual, cautious, between climate-sceptics and climate-critics, between the friends of industry and the defenders of the environment, a balanced position which therefore remains ambitious since the target of 147 g in 2020 will give industry both the time to make the technological leap and the incentive to be efficient.
so i would now like you to tell us, after this debate and before the vote in a few hours, what procedure you will adopt over the next two years since a reassessment is due to take place in 2013 which will allow us, quickly, as our rapporteur for the group, matthias groote, also wished, to go further in this fight to allow less pollution from these light commercial vehicles.
the idea is noble: reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles.
but what is presented to us as a realistic compromise with the council is in fact a discount agreement: the approved text limits the average level of co2 emissions for new light commercial vehicles to 175 g/km, while the long-term objective is 147 g/km.
improving energy efficiency and managing innovation are now priorities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the compromise reached on limiting average co2 emissions to 147 g/km by 2020 does not meet the initial ambitions of my socialist colleagues in the envi committee, who, supported by the greens/efa and the gue/ngl, had advocated a much more ambitious target (135 g/km).
however, behind this "battle of numbers" there is a balance to be found between environmental issues which are recognized by all, and social and industrial requirements which must not be forgotten.
that is why i think it is appropriate to make the adoption of the compromise conditional on the revision of the regulation by january 2013 and the feasibility study and re-evaluation of the objectives: not only will this review make it possible to return to this subject quickly and go further in the fight against motor vehicle pollution, but it will also be an opportunity to address the question of community research and innovation in the field of road transport.
to meet the european union's ambitious objectives on sustainable development and the fight against climate change, it is important for the european union to act in the automotive sector.
however, i very much regret the lack of ambition in this regulation for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
i do not mean to oppose the sovereign right of the member states to conclude enhanced cooperation agreements with each other, including on patents, but we are not given any guarantees as to the environmental and health standards which will govern the validation of such patents, particularly as regards gmos.
this report and the environmental disasters it claims to be addressing remind us of the urgency of moving away from nuclear power.
the aim is to make the european financial stability fund sustainable.
while member states remain fully responsible for the choice and organisation of their pension systems, the fact remains that european economies have become interdependent and that discussions on economic governance also concern the sustainability and viability of pension systems.
i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report calling on the member states of the european union to establish strong, sustainable and secure pension systems.
while there are positive aspects to this text, such as the importance of the re-launch of employment in ensuring the sustainability of pension systems and the role of the social partners, there are other aspects which i found difficult to support, which is why i abstained on this text.
recent council debates put food security at the centre of the discussion, asking the question how best to ensure that agricultural production in the eu will be both economically viable and environmentally sustainable in the future.
decisions are about to commence on the future orientation of the eu development policy based on the green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development.
with the green paper process, the commission takes the initiative of attributing priority to economic growth generation, agriculture and food security in development cooperation in order to achieve inclusive and sustainable development in developing countries on the grounds of pro-poor solutions.
the backstop mechanism for countries facing food stress; the role and organisation of food aid at international level and in the european union; improving international governance, for example through institutional dialogue mechanisms between key countries; levels of investment in sustainable agricultural production and research, in the european union but also in the poorest countries.
i think that in this context the european union must be much more present, not only with food aid but above all with support for the countries of the south to enable them to develop their own local production capacity in a sustainable way.
secondly, the fact that we have returned, with global warming, to climate hazards that are a problem, whether it's drought or flooding.
the decline in production in certain traditional exporting areas due to climate change, the diversion of cereals to biofuel production and financial speculation which accentuates the effects of the increase are responsible for this situation, as the imf and french authorities' reports show and as the commission also says.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, all the hungry people in the world, all those who have to pay more for food or clothing, are waiting for us to counter with greater energy the greatest calamity that is now afflicting the planet, that is to say, the one produced by the rapacious speculators in food.
at the same time, our common agricultural policy must ensure the sustainable development of agriculture, but we may also have to review the instruments at our disposal to deal with these extreme situations on the market, while allowing the market to play its role without, however, being deprived of the instruments we need to act and avoid being caught off guard by crisis situations.
it is essential to develop sustainable agriculture in developing countries and to allocate an appropriate share of eu development aid to the agricultural sector.
indeed, the caution we have observed in our reactions so far can easily and painfully be explained by our obsession with stability, that is, by this vision of security, which is nourished by our fears and whose only priority is the fight against immigration, terrorism and radical islam, plus a few economic interests, in particular access to energy.
as a member of the british parliament, i can tell you that where more than 60% of french pigs are produced, the small profits of the agri-food companies do not compensate for the decline in tourism, the damage to the environment, the health of the workers or the losses of farmers.
and above all, commissioner, you may try to tell us that we are not questioning south korea's environmental and climate policy, but that is not true!
we're going to be able to export big sedans, the ones that the manufacturers that do the least in terms of climate are rewarded for by this agreement.
for the first time, the european union is challenging a climate policy of one of its trading partners.
we think we are reversing europe's ambitions: the environment, the climate, before trade.
firstly, to ensure that competition is really fair, it will be necessary for social, health and environmental standards to be taken into account in trade agreements.
i will not go into the positive aspects of the report and the proposal advocated by mr kalfin - he himself has done so - on the mandate for climate change, the increase in human resources, the focus on development with social, environmental and human rights, the refocusing of the guarantee on the countries that need it most and the best link with the union's policies.
there are members of the left, members of the right, members of the environment, members of the liberal left who are very interested in these issues.
the subject of transparency and expertise is one we debate very regularly, particularly in the committee on health and the environment, where i have experience in my field that is roughly comparable to that which pascal canfin has just expressed.
the report does not deal with ecological and social issues.
finally, the agreement marks the beginning of a new generation of free trade agreements, with a chapter on sustainable development committing both parties to comply with ilo conventions, and provisions setting out the conditions for the effective participation of civil society.
stopping speculation is a dire necessity, as is fighting climate change.
food security and environmental and climatic conditions are closely linked, making coordination of environmental and agricultural policies essential.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the establishment of global regulations to prevent the violation of the right to food by speculation, reaffirms the european union's commitment to be a major player in the field of food and agriculture at world level, takes account of climate change, and encourages member states to increase the share of public aid devoted to agriculture.
the climate towards the lgbt community is unbearable, exacerbated by the religious authorities, and especially the evangelical fundamentalists close to the head of state.
firstly, it is a dynamic maritime area, thanks to maritime transport, fishing and marine energy.
it is also an area whose environment is fragile and remains to be preserved - i am thinking for example of the scourge of green algae - and which is subject to the consequences of climate change.
it will also have to seek synergies with other policies such as the trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, tourism, environmental protection, energy policy and the framework programme for research and development.
in addition to this transport activity, there is fishing, boating, the exploitation of grain and soon - and to my great satisfaction - the production of energy from offshore wind turbines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, having been rapporteur for the s&d group on the opinion of the imco committee, i welcome the text adopted by the environment committee, which incorporates many of our proposals and those of the associated committees.
official development assistance, although imperfect and largely improvable, is nonetheless indispensable for countries hard hit by economic and climate crises.
the benefits would be manifold: discouraging financial speculation, but also financing aid to developing countries and their adaptation to climate change, while contributing to the budget of the european union.
i can only oppose a carbon tax at all levels, which would invariably penalise our most modest citizens, like mr sarkozy's unjust and unpopular project.
however, a financial transaction tax must be aimed solely at the general human interest, not at the proper functioning of free trade or the exchange of polluting rights that some call the "carbon market", as this text does.
while taxation can be a reliable and sustainable source of funding through the establishment of a progressive tax regime, effective tax administration and transparent and responsible use of revenues, many developing countries fail to apply a minimum tax rate to finance their public services.
that is why i voted in favour of this text, which will bring about a stable, more efficient but also fairer taxation to reduce poverty in these countries, and which will also bring about a transparent, cooperative and fair international tax environment.
european farmers are rightly required to comply with stringent environmental and health standards for production hygiene, even though some of their competitors are entering the european market with products that do not always meet these standards.
in this sense, imports of products from third countries should comply with health, social, consumer, environmental and animal protection rules similar to those we have in the eu.
), it is our duty to remind the european commission of the need to conclude, realistically but without naivety, trade partnerships based on the principles of free trade, of course, but also on the principle of reciprocity, both in respect of health and social rules and consumer, environmental and animal protection, and which do not endanger certain european sectors of activity.
in addition, the eu's high standards for health, the environment and animal welfare must be applied to products entering the eu.
as these products are not always subject to the same environmental, health and regulatory constraints on gmos as european products, the european union has decided to review its protein policy and increase domestic production of protein products.
increasing the union's protein independence, the development of short supply chains, aid to farmers contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are all measures which i support.
how is the over-indebtedness of our states more acceptable, more bearable, more sustainable than that of households or firms?
at the same time, turkey is also an important regional actor, playing a key role in several important areas, including energy security and regional security and the promotion of dialogue between civilizations.
in the context of the fight against climate change, i would also like to see the possibility of introducing additional tools to greenhouse gas emissions trading, such as the carbon capture at frontiers mechanism.
unfortunately, it remains locked into a vision of competitiveness based on a deadly fall in the cost of labour, whereas it should be based on training and savings in capital, energy and raw materials.
the aim is to build a strategy based on sustainable growth, centred on employment, built around the optimisation of skills and demonstrating that social and technological innovation are compatible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can understand the enthusiasm for the presence of shale gas in our european subsoil and the concern for energy independence is a very welcome concern.
several states are on the way to a moratorium and an impact study that will last more than two years has been entrusted to the ipe to analyse the environmental consequences of this exploitation.
at a time when we are trying to massively reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, it would seem highly inconsistent with policies at union level that an impact study on the purely climate impact in terms of greenhouse gases of the exploitation of these deposits is not carried out before any in-depth research is put in place.
you said, commissioner, that environmental standards must be respected, and we take note of that and welcome it.
the fact remains that in countries, and i am thinking particularly of my own country, where research permits are granted, we now find that environmental law is totally forgotten, it does not apply, we are outlawed.
it is therefore absolutely unacceptable to continue down this road and the real question, commissioner, is whether there is not a conflict between the exploitation of shale gas on such dense ground as european ground, which has nothing to do with american ground, and our environmental protection laws and our laws on the protection of citizens' information.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with what my colleague corinne lepage said, because i ask myself the following question: is this an opportunity or an environmental disaster?
we see that there's pollution of the groundwater by the chemicals that have been incorporated into this hydraulic fracturing, as well as air pollution.
we now see that there are vocs and even ozone from all the products that are being thrown into the air and that the health consequences affect both the people living along the banks, the livestock and, of course, the users of the groundwater since they can no longer consume the water.
there is no question of exploration until we have guarantees on compliance with the groundwater framework directive and air pollution, as well as the aarhus convention.
it is true - and my colleagues are right - that the present situation is not sustainable, but we do not have to make brussels the washington dc of the european union.
but i refuse to accept the financial waste and the democratic aberration of mrs ashton's european external action service.
the example of the channel is particularly illuminating in this context: a strategic sea gateway for the european union, it is both an essential passage between the atlantic ocean and the north sea (it concentrates 20% of the world fleet, and more than 500 ships of more than 300 tonnes circulate there every day), but also an area devoted to fishing, boating, the exploitation of pellets, and soon, to my great satisfaction, to the production of energy from offshore wind turbines.
the european union must therefore adopt an industrial policy that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work.
the objectives are: to revive the economy, boost employment, reduce environmental degradation and improve the quality of life.
the text calls for the sustainability of transport systems to be enhanced through more efficient technologies, interoperability and innovative mobility solutions.
it calls for energy and resource savings to be placed at the heart of european industrial policy.
in this respect, it recalls the considerable potential for job creation and the cost-reduction benefits of energy efficiency improvements.
the adoption of measures to ensure energy efficiency improvements should therefore underpin initiatives in all industrial sectors.
i share this view and believe that the eu must continue to strengthen its economic governance, not only to stabilise but also to foster sustainable growth.
this decision will help to ensure the sustainability of the financial stabilisation mechanism, which has proved its effectiveness since its creation last may.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council is about to meet for the second week in a row in a climate of uncertainty and international tension: uncertainty in japan, where the considerable human losses are still difficult to determine; uncertainty in the mediterranean, as new peoples rise up against their regime, as in bahrain and - as you said, mr president - in yemen.
it is clear that these events must be taken fully into account by all the countries with nuclear power stations and it is useful for this parliament to organise a debate on nuclear safety, without losing sight of the need for us europeans to strengthen rather than diminish our energy independence.
this will only be the case if working conditions are matched and if our companies can invest and recruit in a comparable tax environment.
the rapporteur wanted to place a paragraph on the eu decentralised agencies under the chapter 'sustainability and accountability at the heart of the 2012 budget'.
i share the main idea that is being put forward, namely that agencies add value to the policies of the european union, and this in sectors as varied as vocational training, the environment, internal security or rail transport.
however, i also share the view that in terms of sustainability and budgetary accountability, the agencies system can be improved.
we cannot at the same time demand that nuclear energy be phased out because of the dangers of fallout and at the same time say that fossil fuels must be phased out because of the release of co2 into the atmosphere.
it discusses the potential of partnership in many areas (geopolitics, energy, education and science and regional integration).
the gcc is the main supplier of hydrocarbons to the european union, which is therefore highly dependent on these countries, but their oil reserves are declining and they are preparing to convert them through the development of renewable energies.
in the current climate warming context, the european union and the united states therefore needed to work together to reduce the environmental impact of international aviation.
that is why i voted in favour of this agreement, in which both parties commit to environmental and social standards, including reducing noise emissions, reducing the impact of air transport emissions on air quality and developing sustainable alternative fuels.
that is why i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides for the progressive introduction of traffic rights, the possibility of investment and cooperation in several areas (safety, including the establishment of a single control system, social issues, consumer interests and the environment).
the persian gulf region is of strategic importance to the european union for many reasons, in particular with regard to energy supply.
the project of my colleague dominique baudis, which covered all the issues raised by such a partnership, such as the rights of minorities, women's rights, freedom of conscience and expression, but also the settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict, or strategic partnership areas such as research, education and fossil and renewable energy, was the subject of a fairly broad consensus among the political groups.
finally, we cannot afford to fail to reflect collectively on our energy policies.
on the question of clean energy, renewable energy, the energy efficiency criterion, and on european research, which often amounts to well below 3% of gdp, we expect europe to take ambitious and decisive decisions.
i therefore ask the eu to provide all possible humanitarian, technical and financial assistance - medical equipment, mattresses, tents, food, experts and specialists in radioactivity and nuclear energy... i would also like to express my full solidarity with the japanese people.
in addition, in view of the seriousness of the situation at the fukushima plant, i call on the japanese government to be as transparent as possible and on the eu member states to organise a broad public debate on energy, not just on the nuclear issue.
the question is not, as some would like to make it appear by a political recovery manoeuvre, whether to continue the production of nuclear energy, an energy of the future which contributes to the decarbonisation of our economy and guarantees our energy independence.
europe must also strengthen its position as the world's leading recipient of foreign direct investment and be able to control it in order to promote sustainable development and quality job creation.
some companies have used the vague wording of the earlier generations of investment agreements to defend their interests beyond what was legitimate, for example by attacking new social or environmental legislation that harms their interests.
this also means that specific clauses should be included in all future agreements specifying the possibility for the public authorities to legislate and regulate in the areas of state security, the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy and cultural diversity.
finally, increased investor protection must be accompanied by more responsible behaviour, particularly in developing countries, whose social and environmental legislation is less restrictive.
the report therefore stresses that social and environmental clauses must be incorporated into all free trade agreements signed by the union.
if this is really a question of drawing up the outlines of a new european investment policy, i would urge that it should be exemplary, that it should promote sustainable investment, respect for the environment and promote quality working conditions in europe and in third countries.
finally, the eu must seize this opportunity to go further: it must include in future agreements clauses facilitating the establishment of investors in these countries, but also basic provisions on social and environmental standards.
and i would like to remind you that fiscal consolidation is not an end in itself, but a means to enable fair and sustainable growth and job creation.
we can only preserve and strengthen our model if we invest in the sectors of the future: green energy, nanotechnology, biotechnology, etc.
my group hopes that the post-fukushima period, even though we are unfortunately not there yet, will be a period of reflection and action to ensure, on the one hand, a significant strengthening of nuclear safety rules and, on the other hand, an increase in our efforts in the field of green energy.
we're not here to waste our time.
when i look at the opinions of the european central bank today, i have the impression that it is more concerned with what is not in its mandate, namely the level of wages, rather than with the sustainability of our banking system and its efficiency in serving the public investment we need.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because it focuses on the real causes of migration flows, namely political, social and economic instability, lack of security, political repression, human rights violations, but also climate change.
the report also stresses the importance of offering countries of origin sustainable strategies within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and the european union's development policy.
the profound changes in europe's rural areas are all challenges to be met in terms of demography, employment, services and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the face of budgetary constraints facing each country, parliament will only agree to extend its aid if eu funds have effectively improved the security of energy supply, modernised infrastructure and developed sustainable energy projects.
by releasing very large amounts of funds - which will amount to eur 2 848 million by the end of 2013 - it has made it possible to close all these plants and partially convert these states to renewable energy.
these agencies will have to publish an annual activity report to check whether the supported projects comply with european environmental, social and development objectives.
meps called for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies to encourage the green transition, in line with eu and national commitments to combat climate change.
the european parliament voted to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the union itself does not respect the principles it sets: when was the last time the commission was seen to apply the social, human rights or environmental clauses it includes in its trade agreements?
this report calls for "social and environmental impact assessments" to accompany the granting of public credit and insurance to private sector exports.
it also called for the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets not to be affected by these projects.
i am voting against, however, because i am bitterly sorry that the committee on international trade has not tried to give itself the means to achieve social and ecological objectives worthy of the name.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
as regards the question of finding funding, i said this morning in the debate that we, the european commission, will be presenting in the next financial perspective proposals for what we call 'eu project bonds', that is, bonds for investment in certain projects, structural projects, for example projects for european networks, including, of course, energy.
there are many areas where i think a euro invested at european level will do more than a euro invested at national level, such as energy.
the real challenge is to reconcile the economic balance of the sector, and thus the guarantee of decent incomes for fishermen, on the one hand, with the sustainability and renewal of fish stocks, on the other.
as the house will be aware, the eu’s commitment is to continue promoting responsible and sustainable fisheries in the waters of our partners, including the indian ocean region.
in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of joint work between the european institutions and the fishing industry on the collection and sharing of scientific data, which seems to me to be the condition for a common policy of renewed, fair and shared fishing, endowed with sufficient means and is an important point , which allies economic interests and the sustainability of the activity, in the interest of all, fishermen, consumers and citizens.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the parliament's committee on regional development, i welcome the ideas contained in the report: the need for special action for regions with specific geographical characteristics, such as the outermost regions, the creation of a european patent for companies, a european statute for foundations, mutual societies and associations, the introduction of bonds for the financing of concrete projects and the need to promote sustainable development within the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, i think many of my colleagues have mentioned that the story of this single market package is the monti report, and the monti report advocated a great compromise, in a way, between those who advocate more competition and those who advocate more consideration of social, environmental and also fiscal aspects.
is competition based on innovation, on products, or is it based on rules, on environmental dumping, on social dumping?
i think we have found a balance here in this parliament - and i hope you can bring it to the commission - which is to say yes to more competition through innovation, to more capital investment, but also yes to a social clause, yes to environmental standards which ensure that competition does not lead to regulatory dumping.
this is essential if our smes are to thrive in a healthy competitive environment.
finally, to ensure the financing of innovation for strong and sustainable growth in major european infrastructure projects through the creation of european bond issues.
we have succeeded in parliament in finding the right compromises which do not empty the text of its content but which, on the contrary, put real pressure on those in the commission who want to continue to have a purely liberal approach to the single market, which does not integrate social, tax and environmental issues.
this solution is neither efficient nor transparent, which is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism, which will allow operators on both sides of the mediterranean to trade in a more predictable and safer environment.
this is the essential condition for the sustainable development of this activity.
this report illustrates the contribution that the gue/ngl can nevertheless make to the debates in the european parliament, and i know that we can count on joão ferreira to continue this fight for sustainable fishing that favours small fishermen over the industrialists in the sector.
it is in everyone's interest to reconcile the economic balance of the sector, and thus to guarantee fishermen a decent income, with the sustainability and renewal of fish stocks.
the european parliament today rejected a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment and public health which called for further research before it could be said that dha could be considered as a substance with beneficial properties for infants.
in addition to investor protection, the commission should include specific clauses in all future agreements specifying the right of the third country and the eu to regulate technological areas related to the country's internal security, the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy.
he is particularly concerned about the nuisance of sovereign funds, speculation which should not be encouraged, the exclusion of sensitive sectors, social and environmental clauses, respect for the principle of reciprocity or the regulatory powers of the states - all subjects which he wants to put at the centre of future european policy.
under no circumstances should the financial interests of foreign investors, of multinational firms, be allowed to take precedence over the power of states to adopt binding social, environmental and fiscal standards.
the first requirement is that all such agreements include clauses obliging european investors to behave responsibly abroad in economic, social and environmental matters.
in the past, certain private investment protection clauses have made it possible to treat the adoption of social or environmental legislation by the third country as an indirect expropriation, thus resulting in compensation.
the report thus guarantees an economic and legal environment for businesses, especially our smes.
in this sense, it is necessary to relax the conditions for the existence of european political parties in order to free up energy.
as efforts are made to increase citizen participation in the eu's activities and to strengthen its democratic character, the regulatory environment for european political parties needs to be improved.
stop the liberalization of public services, would say citizens angry about the delays of the post office, the explosion of energy prices, the deterioration of railway services... and we would stop!
the first chapter of the act is devoted to the commission's intentions with regard to the creation of an environment conducive to entrepreneurship.
the creation and innovation of new businesses must be encouraged in the context of sustainable development, combining international competitiveness with the protection of smes.
the report proposes further liberalisation of the energy sector, the postal sector and a stronger application of the services directive, under the pretext of supporting businesses and boosting growth.
a well-functioning single market is essential to ensure competitiveness, job creation and sustainable growth in europe.
finally, we should emphasize two key levers for growth which must be activated urgently: - innovation in the long term, accompanied by the ecological transformation of economies: this can be done by the creation of bond loans in the eu, more specifically in the fields of energy, transport and telecommunications; - improving the participation of smes in the single market: by expanding their sources of finance and improving their access to capital markets, by removing tax barriers to their cross-border activities and by revising the public procurement framework to make procedures more flexible and less bureaucratic.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear energy is a non-carbon energy, but also a transitional energy based on exhaustible resources.
it's also a potentially dangerous energy.
secondly, the fight against global warming requires a coherent and ambitious policy.
in countries such as france which produce nuclear energy, reducing it in the mix is a prerequisite for any decision of greater scope.
it is a process which implies that we redouble our efforts to save energy, to increase renewable energy sources, which in the medium and long term will be able to cover almost all our consumption.
finally, true solidarity requires the creation of an energy community.
so we have to plan for exit, keeping in mind our economic needs, our employment needs, our industrial capacity and the need not to increase our greenhouse gas emissions.
i think that, in the spirit of what i have said about the european energy community, we should have an independent regulator at european level and we should have the means of control to ensure the independence of its work and its genuine competence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must talk today about improving nuclear safety, not about calling into question civil nuclear power, which is an essential element of energy independence and the fight against greenhouse gases in many european union countries.
beyond these tests, the european union must work towards the harmonisation of international standards at the highest level, within the g20 and the international atomic energy agency, on the basis of the objectives of the western european regulators' association for new reactors.
since 2010, iceland has requested new quotas, much higher than in the past, on the basis of a hypothetical geographical redistribution of the stock of mackerel due to global warming.
all that has happened in recent times - and i am thinking particularly of the southern shore of the mediterranean, perhaps the awareness of a number of difficulties in our energy choices - is an incentive to encourage you even more in your work and to support you.
you are looking for benefits in terms of social cohesion, in terms of fighting poverty, in terms of protecting the environment.
finally, the last item i will be addressing is climate change.
one of the official objectives of the european union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. this will not be possible if we continue to finance coal-fired power stations, which have a lifespan of 40 years and emit a huge amount of co2.
the aim is to have a calm and impartial discussion on the state of nuclear energy in europe and on how to ensure maximum safety.
on the broader issue of energy sources in europe, i would remind you that we must take into account the objective of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 and protecting the eu's energy independence.
and yet the european parliament has no position on nuclear energy.
several clearly identified issues were on the table: a moratorium on the construction of new power stations, the implementation of independent stress tests, the revival of renewable energies and efforts to achieve the essential goal of energy efficiency.
the compromise resolution was a good basis and i supported the amendments in favour of a planned and prepared exit from nuclear energy, taking into account the fight against global warming.
i also voted in favour of the amendments calling for investment in research and innovation, to develop energy savings and to massively increase renewable energy.
it is now essential to have a thorough debate on all these issues and to implement an energy transition in solidarity, taking into account the situation in all the member states.
this is where the debate must focus today to ensure that our citizens have maximum security from energy which remains the main pillar of the energy mix of most european countries; and will certainly remain so for years to come, until a sustainable, non-carbon-emitting renewable energy source can replace it and meet the electricity needs of our society.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
nuclear energy or fossil energy: you can choose one or the other; you can't rule out both.
neither hydropower nor the current alternative energy sources are capable of ensuring our supplies.
like the whole of the french socialist delegation, i also supported the amendments in favour of a deliberate and prepared exit from nuclear energy, taking account of the fight against global warming.
this phase-out of nuclear power will have to go hand in hand with increased investment in research and innovation, to reduce energy dependence and increase renewable energy in the energy mix of the eu member states.
the question here is not whether the validity of this energy should be questioned.
it is not a question here of succumbing to the idealistic and obscurantist values of those who would like to banish this energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the danger posed to mankind by nuclear energy is unsustainable.
i voted against the resolution on the lessons to be learned from the nuclear accident in japan for nuclear safety in europe because i believe that the question of the future of nuclear energy, which is of paramount importance to our fellow citizens, cannot be decided by our assembly in a few hours on the basis of amendments adopted without a real debate.
the credibility of our assembly and the well-being of our citizens are at stake, who would not understand - and rightly so - that we are committing them to long-term paths which have not been the subject of a calm and exhaustive discussion beforehand, taking into account the different national situations and the constraints of our common fight against climate change.
i also believe that an indefinite moratorium on the construction and commissioning of new nuclear reactors is not an economically viable solution and would put many jobs at risk and dangerously weaken our energy production.
the increase in the number of ldcs (from 25 to 48 since 1971) requires the international community to redouble its efforts to achieve the goal of halving the number of ldcs by 2020. in this context, it is essential to find genuine coherence between policies directly affecting ldcs, including development aid, trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial system, in order to stem poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods for ldcs.
in other words, in the eu's relations with the least developed countries, all areas of intervention - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial system - must be designed to support the development needs of these countries.
enlargement to include iceland will enable europe to make its policy in the arctic region more coherent, particularly in the areas of fisheries, maritime transport, scientific research and environmental protection.
the agreements negotiated with dictatorships must remain: free trade area, outsourcing of 'management of migration flows', eu energy security, everything is there.
the european union and its member states must actively engage with the african union and sadc to ensure that future elections are not held in a climate of intimidation and violence.
the european union must remain firm on the principles and objectives it has set itself, namely the priority of combating global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels.
it is not helping the fishermen to perpetuate a doomed energy system which will inevitably do them in turn.
instead, they should be allowed to convert their fishing gear and reorient the factors of production towards energy-saving tools.
mr president, i have just heard two of my colleagues raise the issue of sustainability and the need to subsidize professions because they cannot live.
that is why my group wishes to stress a number of points in this negotiation, which must lead to an agreement that contributes to the objectives of sustainable development and poverty eradication, and which must also be accompanied by clear and verifiable commitments, based on cooperation, but with serious social and environmental commitments.
finally, thank you, mr president, we believe that the chapter on sustainable development must include binding commitments to respect social and environmental standards, in particular the ilo social standards.
first, the inclusion of a chapter on sustainable development.
it is by promoting the exchange of good practice, by continuing to fight against pollution and illegal activities at sea and by preventing accidents that we can make sustainable use of the growth potential of the sea.
while the budget for euratom is €5.5 billion compared to €1.2 billion for renewable energies, in principle i do not wish to give up on the management of euratom.
in the current economic climate, the european parliament must set an example in reducing costs.
i see this as an encouraging signal to ensure the sustainability and success of this enterprise involving the world's major powers.
fusion is intended to provide mankind with clean, inexhaustible and safe energy.
it will help us to combat global warming and to achieve energy independence.
as in the vote in committee, i defended a community view, considering that existing agreements should be carefully examined by the commission to verify their compatibility with the treaties, community law and the union's policies, in particular the objectives of the union's external action in favour of sustainable development.
the third is that all security costs must be included in the cost price of energy, and if we have to provision all costs, force provisioning of these costs, we have to legislate to make equity levels mandatory.
secondly, if you take the lisbon treaty, which you helped to draft, you have to realize that the decision on the energy mix was and is the responsibility of the member states, the countries in which you are based.
that is why the decision on coal, nuclear power, gas and renewable energy was and is largely a matter for the member states.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings is a very good one.
but we must keep our heads cool in the face of the present and future energy challenge.
in this context, nuclear energy cannot be ignored as a low-carbon system.
the challenge is to strike a balance between the development of nuclear energy and the means of preventing the risks involved in its production and of combating the consequences of nuclear accidents.
this has been catastrophic for jobs, for the environment and, despite appearances, it is catastrophic in the long run for consumer health.
dear catherine ashton, we will only have a sound foreign and security policy if we put all our weight, all our energy into a few well-defined objectives.
we want an eu-india free trade agreement to help promote sustainable development, and to be accompanied by clear clauses on compliance with ilo standards, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility obligations.
the lisbon treaty states that trade policy must contribute to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights.
but for years you have been signing free trade agreements with all the countries of the world, especially those which systematically practice social, monetary or environmental dumping, and you are only creating poverty for all the victims of the relocations or closures of businesses directly linked to this unfair competition.
but in adopting this report we have emphasized the need for a stronger commitment to environmental protection in forestry policy.
we also emphasise the challenge that climate change poses to forests.
the european parliament has sent a strong political message to stress the need for sustainable forest management.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the european union for the period from 1 january 2000 to 31 december 2003. protecting forests against climate change also helps to preserve the forestry industry and its competitiveness.
i voted in favour of the report on the commission's green paper entitled 'forest protection and forest information in the european union; preparing forests for climate change".
forests must be seen as a fundamental element in the fight against climate change.
it is crucial that the european union reinforces its strategy to combat forest-damaging phenomena such as fires and air pollution.
against these threats, the ability of forests to recover to normal development in the face of the impacts of climate change depends on biodiversity, not only of the trees, but also of all other organisms living there, especially wild animals.
for example, wildlife that naturally colonizes the prime habitat of forests deserve special attention from landowners as they contribute to the maintenance of biodiversity.
it is a pity that it is once again used as a pretext for the development of the carbon market.
the consequences of climate change on forests are well known, but the inertia to address them seriously jeopardises their preservation.
but they are fragile ecosystems, a priceless biodiversity and a strategic economic channel that we have to preserve.
the measures we need to take to adapt to climate change cannot be delayed.
if we are to preserve the forest as we know and love it, we must be at the forefront of the fight to ensure sustainable management of forest areas and protect them from the threats that threaten them.
mercosur's production is not subject to environmental and social standards comparable to those of european agriculture.
there is still a lot to be done to simplify the regulatory environment and the administrative procedures which are too burdensome for the activity and dynamism of our companies.
the report goes in the right direction and proposes a favourable environment for smes, which are a key element in the success of the european union.
the dual nature of these industries, both economic and cultural, makes them important levers of sustainable, smart, inclusive growth for europe - in short, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
our goal is very much to create an environment in which every young person will be able to realise their potential.
if we want these industries to develop fully, we have to make progress on various fronts: skills adaptation and capacity building, access to funding, improving the business environment, support for cross-border circulation and new distribution models, maximising these industries’ potential for regional and local development, promoting their spillover effects in terms of innovation, and promoting a creative europe on the world stage.
i am pleased to see that our green paper has sparked, in europe and within the european institutions, a very rich debate on the right environment to put in place to meet the specific needs of creating entrepreneurship in order to seize the new opportunities offered by globalisation, digitisation and cultural diversity.
i am firmly convinced that our joint efforts will help to create a better environment in which these vital industries can play an important role in the discussions on eu funding mechanisms post-2013 and implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
it is playing for a living and sustainable democracy.
finally, i welcome the fact that the amendments tabled by the socialist group concerning compliance with the labour, social and environmental standards in force in the member states in the context of public procurement have been widely adopted: this shows a real awareness and a positive and necessary change.
finally, i welcome the adoption of the amendments by the socialist group concerning compliance with the labour, social and environmental standards in force in the member states in the context of public procurement.
the commission must therefore encourage, at both european and national level, investment in new technologies to increase the energy efficiency of maritime, land and air transport.
despite a difficult budgetary environment, fishermen would not understand if the union did not act to address their concerns.
i think this is essential, because if the whole sector is concerned, the increase in the energy bill is more fragile for small-scale fishing than for industrial fishing.
the only merit of this resolution, which is common to all the groups except mine, is that it regrets this state of affairs and boasts of energy efficiency, which it undermines by promoting exports at all costs.
while the revision aims to improve access to finance for smes, it ignores social and environmental issues, not even referring to the european commission's project for a social entrepreneurship initiative announced for the end of this year.
there is still a lot to be done to simplify the regulatory environment and the administrative procedures which are too burdensome for the activity and dynamism of our companies.
increasing the pace of research and innovation is crucial to building a fair and competitive economic model, to securing the jobs of the future, to moving towards sustainable resource management, to addressing energy challenges or to boosting a knowledge-based society.
innovation is therefore one of the major challenges facing the european union in terms of employment, the environment and development, and will have a real impact on citizens.
innovation should help to address key societal challenges such as population ageing, the need for sustainable resource management or economic recovery.
it is playing for a living and sustainable democracy.
mr president, this is a request for courtesy, to allow commissioner olli rehn to attend the european environmental economic accounts and then the imf.
this is a fundamental question, not just in the field of environmental policy.
it is therefore essential that policy-makers have reliable and as comprehensive information as possible about the world today and the state of the environment.
this was the conclusion reached by the european council in june 2006, when it asked the european union and its member states to extend national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development.
i welcome this initiative and the european commission's proposal, as it will provide more information on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes and material flows within the economy.
it is the key to the growth needed to finance our social ambitions and meet our environmental commitments.
this agreement must in particular respect the social and environmental models of both parties, the countries of the european union and canada, and their ability to continue to regulate, to regulate in areas which are sensitive to our societies, and this is not a matter of detail and is not a matter of delaying manoeuvres.
in general, the investment chapter must respect the right of both parties to regulate in areas such as the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy and cultural diversity.
we are concerned about the environment and we are asking for investment.
nor should it limit canada's ability to regulate the exploitation of its oil sands in the future in environmental terms.
finally, i agree with mr kazak that the chapter on sustainable development must include commitments on social and environmental matters and, in particular, the social and environmental responsibility of large multinational companies.
the text is much less ambitious than the original proposal, but it will make it possible for the first time to put the polluter-pays principle into practice and to internalize the external costs of transport such as noise and co2 emissions.
in order to remain consistent with the political objectives that our institution has set itself, i sincerely hope that we can adopt this compromise which is being proposed to us at second reading and thus pave the way for a more sustainable transport policy.
mr president, commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to say that the road toll price, which is capped by the new eurovignette directive, will in future be able to include the costs of noise and air pollution.
however, we must remain vigilant: it is important to convince some member states, after three years of interinstitutional negotiations, that this point of balance found in this trilogue allows for a genuine environmental protection policy but also an effective economic policy in the development of the european railway.
however, we are still far from making road freight transport pay a reasonable share of the costs it represents for our societies: infrastructure wear and tear, pollution, public health, accidents.
the revision of the eurovignette directive is essential to better integrate the cost of pollution generated by road transport, which will now be possible since member states will then be able to take air and noise pollution, and congestion on certain routes, into account when setting the tariff for heavy goods vehicles.
what matters now is that the proceeds from the eurovignette actually go to projects to improve infrastructure, reduce pollution and protect the environment.
i also voted in favour of it because it will allow the introduction of concrete measures which will facilitate the development of transport in europe and which will have a significant impact on safety and the environment and on improving the flow of traffic for road transport.
i therefore believe that balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition, should be promoted, particularly in the areas of public subsidies and social and environmental standards.
with the draft directive on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (eurovignette), member states will now have the possibility of taxing air and noise pollution from road transport.
and we will have to ensure that the commitment made by the states to invest the proceeds in sustainable projects is implemented.
parliament has just given its consent to the new rules on road transport taxation, thus guaranteeing the development and financing of a transport policy more in line with environmental requirements in terms of pollution and noise.
if road hauliers are now required to pay for the air and noise pollution generated by lorries, member states will, in return, be obliged to reinvest the revenue from this charge in transeuropean transport networks and, above all, in more efficient and less polluting transport systems.
for the first time, the 'polluter pays' principle will apply to road transport and heavy goods vehicles will be able to be taxed for noise and air pollution when travelling on motorways in the european union.
this is an innovative initiative which i welcome, since it allows the environmental and social costs to be taken into account, and is not limited to the cost of infrastructure.
it is regrettable, however, that the european parliament's ambition for strong environmental requirements has been held back by the council of ministers, on the pretext of excessive additional costs.
nevertheless, this report is a real step forward in the field of the environment.
air and noise pollution from traffic will be taxed electronically at a rate of 3 to 4 cents per kilometre, depending on the euro class of the vehicle, the location and the congestion rate.
the resolution also calls on the member states to use the money raised to finance certain types of sustainable transport projects.
these revenues should be used exclusively for environmental policies.
worse, the inclusion of the euro-vignette in the carbon market is promoted.
this is a fundamental issue, not only for environmental policy, but also for others... it is therefore essential that policy-makers have reliable and as comprehensive information as possible about the world today and the state of the environment... this is the conclusion reached by the european council in june 2006 when it asked the european union and its member states to extend the national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development.
i welcome this initiative and the european commission's proposal, because it will make it possible to learn more about atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes, etc.
there is a need to agree on the development of model statistics on the environmental consequences of member states' and eu policies and on the accounting of taxes supporting certain environmental policies.
it is unfortunate, however, that statistics and taxes are included indiscriminately in an 'environmental accounting'.
the aim of such assimilation is the implementation of the climate package and its pollution rights fund.
the truth is that without european funding, food security policy, energy policy and the policy to combat climate change will not live up to our hopes and ambitions.
finally, it focuses on the core issues that the union has traditionally been called upon to help advance: development, human rights and climate change.
this amount should be allocated as a priority to projects promoted by smes and industry in general, in particular in the fields of energy supply, sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
the future of european research depends on simplifying the implementation of programmes, facilitating access to finance, involving smes, but above all adapting our priorities to the major societal challenges (demographic ageing, climate change, etc.).
with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, it recommends that the remaining programming should address the union's most urgent challenges in the sectors identified in the seventh framework programme's 'cooperation' chapter: health, agri-food and biotechnology, information and communication technologies, nanosciences and nanotechnologies, energy, the set plan and the use of biogas, environment, sustainable transport, economic and social sciences, humanities, space and security.
it advocates the sustainability of its budget, which is essential if it is to achieve its objectives.
so by discussing and negotiating, we are able to find solutions to the questions relating to our trade and to the respect of certain principles, for example those relating to the environment.
in a free trade agreement, two things are essential: firstly, to guarantee reciprocity in respect of social and environmental legislation, and secondly, to adopt a coherent and protective approach to services of general interest.
the european environmental and health standards must not be lowered just to satisfy our partner.
the union can no longer accept without action the social, health and environmental dumping which is responsible for too many relocations from our european territory.
it requires companies to integrate social and environmental concerns into their business.
the failure to respect basic international social standards is a form of social and environmental dumping to the detriment of european businesses and workers.
gdp has been the main economic measure for many years, but its shortcomings are increasingly highlighted when it comes to judging social or environmental progress.
this is why this resolution is so important, because it stresses the need for the european union to develop additional gdp indicators to take better account of, among other things, climate change, biodiversity and social integration, which are major political challenges that i am very keen to tackle.
i believe that this initiative is an encouraging first step towards a better integration of social and environmental issues into european public policies, but to be fully useful and effective it will have to be followed by a real introduction of a new range of indicators and a real and coherent political use of them, not as gadgets but as real tools to help in decision-making.
the proposals contained in this text are unreal and more like anesthetic incantations; waste and bureaucracy still have their good days ahead of them.
i voted in favour of the report by mr garriga polledo on behalf of the special committee on political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 in a context of rising populism, the very effectiveness and relevance of eu policies is regularly called into question.
yet, in the face of the current crises - financial, economic, social, climate - we need not less europe but more europe.
the responses to the challenges we face - economic crisis, rapid growth in emerging economies, climate change, demographic upheaval, etc.
in the votes on the report 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe', i voted in favour of the creation of an intermediate category of regions with a per capita gross domestic product of between 75% and 90% of the union's gross domestic product.
the creation of this third category of regions will enable them to benefit from funding for employment, sustainable growth and competitiveness.
madam president, this debate has started badly with the good people, the anti-nuclear people, on the one hand, and the bad people, the people who still support nuclear energy, on the other.
i would remind you, however, that nuclear energy is part of the energy mix that we have wanted, that we have wanted here in this parliament.
germany's recent decision to phase out nuclear power by 2022 marks a new step in the ongoing debate in europe on energy independence for the continent and possible sources of alternative energy to nuclear.
nuclear energy, however, remains an important component of electricity supply in many european countries.
these plans will also have to deal with the difficult question of borders in order to guarantee the peaceful and sustainable coexistence of the two states in the long term.
the uncontrolled management of the country's natural resources is also threatening the development prospects of future generations and is setting the stage for ecological disaster.
the report by mr deß endorses a positive approach to the contribution of agriculture to the environment and ecology and calls for the often burdensome administrative constraints imposed by european regulations and national legislation to be removed.
yes, our agriculture must take a positive approach to the environment.
it must focus in particular on this dimension at european level and guarantee it through a first pillar which integrates this environmental issue.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the report before us outlines a new direction for the common agricultural policy, whether it be the progressive use of public funds in relation to employment and the environment, the recognition of agriculture as a producer of public goods or the concept of active farmers.
the combination of economic, social and ecological efficiency also requires an end to the current ultra-liberal free trade that is destroying family farms.
we have very clearly established and confirmed the maintenance and development of small farms, the consideration of small farms, which are essential for the quality and biodiversity of the territories.
we also need to take better account of natural constraints, such as global warming, mountain areas and water scarcity, in the allocation of aid.
i believe we all broadly share the view that balanced and healthy public finances are a necessary condition for sustainable growth and improving employment, which is the goal of the current legislative package.
so, all in all, your vote tomorrow will be a very important one, a very crucial one for the european union and its capacity to convince our general public, economic actors and international partners of our capacity to overcome the crisis and facilitate sustainable growth.
therefore your vote tomorrow will be a great opportunity to achieve a historic milestone of complementing the monetary union finally with a true and genuinely functioning economic union – which we definitely need – and thus enabling the european union to come out of the current serious crisis with lessons learnt, hopefully also stronger for the future and, in any case, with new appropriate policy tools for sustainable growth, employment and for our citizens’ benefit.
madam president, commissioner, madam president, a country which does not have control over the treatment of its waste should not have recourse to the technology from which the waste originates.
secondly, nuclear waste should be a waste subject to common law with more stringent rules.
in fact, it does not define waste because, if we go to the extreme, there is never nuclear waste, since we can always imagine a new technological solution.
finally, the price of nuclear energy must really include the cost of dismantling and waste.
that is why we are advocating the introduction of a new category of intermediate regions in the allocation of funds, as well as the application of new development indicators, indicators of social justice, welfare and environmental justice.
to do this, it must focus on inequalities, especially in urban areas, which are particularly affected by new challenges - social, environmental - and this is huge.
improving the attractiveness and environment of these discriminated territories is to restore confidence to their inhabitants.
it is also about promoting a new sustainable city, desirable for all, a model that responds to ecological, energy and socio-demographic challenges, but which puts the living environment and the well-being of its inhabitants back at the centre of its concerns.
cohesion policy is the second pillar on which this growth must be based, sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the protocol contributes to the stabilisation of the european canned fish market and also enables seychelles to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
they must also promote the sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
the report focuses on three objectives: physical infrastructure development; economic, social and environmental modernisation of cities; and smarter urban development.
i welcome the adoption of this report as most of our ideas (climate, social cohesion, integrated and bottom-up approach, disadvantaged neighbourhoods, cross-financing, etc.)
similarly, this report should have mentioned more about the opening up of deprived neighbourhoods, the role of medium-sized cities in the urban agenda, as well as the battle for climate and social mix in cities.
indeed, cities play a key role in achieving our objectives in terms of employment, training, energy efficiency and so on.
objective 3 of cohesion policy aims to bring all european regions closer together, particularly crossborder regions, in economic, social and environmental terms.
it is important to strengthen links between these regions, particularly in the energy and transport sectors.
we must listen to what the europeans, who are the first to suffer the economic and social effects of the crisis, are telling us: austerity alone is not sustainable!
the governance package should be balanced by a european investment plan guaranteeing economically and socially sustainable development!
it is clear that the trend is and will remain sustainable.
nuclear power is not the energy future of the planet!
the future is in the energy mix.
nevertheless, we will still have to manage this technology for at least a few decades (managing the decommissioning of power stations, but also radioactive waste and spent fuel).
it is important to realize that this waste has a life span of decades!
i therefore voted in favour of the directive on the management of this waste.
even if the text is capable of improvement and one important point remains problematic for me - the question of the definition of radioactive waste - i believe that we must make progress in this area and that it is useless to deny the need to treat waste.
i also voted in favour of the proposal because the possibility of exporting waste to third countries was rejected.
it would be totally unacceptable for us to allow our most hazardous waste to be exported to countries outside the eu, where we have no certainty about the safety of the long-term treatment and storage of the waste!
the organization of harmonization of standards in the field of spent fuel and radioactive waste management responds to a demand and a need to strengthen safety in this area.
the tragic events in fukushima have only reinforced the parliament's desire to have a strong and clear directive on the export and treatment of nuclear waste.
exports of nuclear waste to countries outside the eu should be prohibited, and exports within the eu should only be allowed through bilateral agreements.
we must have a common policy on renewable energy, develop alternative sources of energy - without resorting to fossil fuels - and at the same time ensure that we are self-sufficient.
i voted in favour of this report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste to send a clear message to the member states: the polluter must be held responsible for his waste!
the export of radioactive waste to third countries, whether it be waste from activities linked to the production of electricity or from activities in other fields such as medicine, research and industry, is an irresponsible practice which the european parliament condemned in adopting this report.
following the fukushima incident in japan, the eu needs to develop ambitious nuclear and energy policy standards and framework treaties.
i voted in favour of the cizelj report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from the energy, medical and research sectors.
i am glad that the s&d group's amendment on the ban on the mass export of waste to third countries, unless it is exported for recycling and then reimported into the eu, has been adopted by the members.
the authorisation of one eu country to export its waste to another member state, only via a bilateral agreement, provides a necessary framework for nuclear and environmental safety.
i welcome the fact that parliament has opposed the storage of such waste in seismic zones and that the powers of the national authorities have been strengthened.
we are here to vote on a proposal for a directive on nuclear waste based on the euratom treaty, so our assembly has only an advisory opinion on this text, and i regret that.
one of the most controversial issues in the debate is whether or not to allow exports of nuclear waste to countries outside the eu.
i also supported the proposal to allow exports of waste only for recycling, and only on condition that it is then reimported into the eu.
i also insist that workers involved in the management of radioactive waste, from its production to its disposal, receive adequate protection and training.
unlike the commission, which considers deep geological storage to be the safest option for highly radioactive waste, i believe that research into alternatives to deep burial of waste should be supported and intensified.
a rebalancing between the two is, however, essential, particularly in france where nearly 80% of the research budget is still devoted to nuclear energy!
while the various agricultural sectors are worried about their future, i voted in favour of the report by mr dess because it calls for a strong and sustainable common agricultural policy for the benefit of all farmers.
in the present context, the european union needs more than ever to ensure its food independence, the quality of food products, the protection of the environment and adequate incomes for those who contribute to it.
i am glad that this text calls for the maintenance of a strong and sustainable cap.
rural development and the interest of farmers are safeguarded, as are the protection of resources and environmental aspects.
the abolition of historical reference values, aid to small farms, the rebalancing in favour of livestock farming and, above all, the adoption of the principle of the degressivity of direct aid in relation to employment and the environment are decisive steps forward in this respect.
i welcome the work that has also enabled the development of tools to encourage agriculture to pursue a more sustainable development, taking into account food security, the environment, territories and employment.
in line with the reform applicable in 2014, the common agricultural policy must address the following priorities: sustainable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, measures to combat climate change and balanced territorial development.
if eu agriculture policy is to ensure both security of supply and quality food and to contribute to environmental protection and renewable energy, its funding must be targeted.
in particular, the maintenance of the cap budget after 2013 was a key point: we want the eu's agricultural budget to remain unchanged until 2020, so that farmers have an incentive to ensure food security and environmental protection, to create new jobs and to ensure a competitive agricultural sector.
i believe that this report is a definite step forward for a strong and sustainable cap, which is why i voted in favour of it.
our message is clear and centred on three priorities: to provide food access for all european citizens; to encourage farmers to change their working methods by focusing on biodiversity issues; to manage water and soil pollution problems; and to recover waste; finally, we must defend the employment of farmers while limiting the impact on the territories.
all this requires a better distribution of direct aid, a different regulation of markets and a priority which must be given to sustainable development.
since the last cap reforms, the issues have changed: increasing global food demand, internationalisation of agricultural trade and price volatility, climate change, energy crisis, the scarcity of available natural resources or questions from our citizens about the role and purpose of the cap... these are all issues that must be part of the cap after 2013 and must be taken into account in its reform.
i voted in favour of the report on the common agricultural policy after 2013, so that the cap budget is maintained at its current level until 2020. i also want farmers to be rewarded for their work on biodiversity.
we want the protection of biodiversity to be a priority for the european union, across its various areas of competence.
the contribution of agriculture to environmental protection should therefore be recognised and included in the objectives of the cap post-2013.
i support the commission's proposals for an eu-funded incentive scheme to support farmers who are moving towards sustainable development.
the text proposes several interesting advances, such as the liberalisation of fossil energy, support for short supply chains, strengthening the bargaining power of producers and the establishment of a global alert system and coordinated action for agricultural stocks.
these are also new concerns, for example the need to combat the volatility of agricultural prices in order to ensure better food security, or the need to take account of environmental protection.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to decide on the seat of the european agency for the protection of the environment.
the common policies front, with measures taken in the fields of social cohesion, the common agricultural policy, food security, the internal market, the strategy for the danube region and, of course, energy policy.
the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue its work on the energy and innovation policy, which was the subject of a full meeting of the european council in early february, one month before the fukushima disaster.
on all these major issues, the hungarian presidency has made progress, despite a difficult political and economic environment.
first, a first reason on which all the groups agree: environmental reasons complementary to those assessed at european level.
while fully aware of the importance of giving full effect to the decision voted by the environment council in december 2008 calling for better expertise from efsa in the field of gmos, we want to maintain centralised management but leave room for manoeuvre to the member states.
a satisfactory text was voted by the committee on the environment, but it was necessary to reach compromise solutions to allow the vote in plenary.
we must do so with the rule of law, taking into account the needs of the economy, health and the environment, and democratic demand is a fundamental imperative for all of us in the european parliament.
i would have liked to see the scientific expertise of the european food safety authority on gmos strengthened and its environmental and health assessment at community level strengthened.
they are statements on safety from the health and environmental perspective.
the eu's ultra-peripheral regions (urs), including guadeloupe, martinique, french guiana and réunion, suffer from specific handicaps (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market, a poorly developed export activity, etc.
the aim was to provide an overview of the sector, analysing its economic, social and environmental performance, and then to assess where improvements could be made.
in the amendments i tabled, which were incorporated into the report we voted on today, i wanted to emphasize the social, cultural and environmental role played by local businesses.
the european commission proposed to give member states the right to ban gmos on any grounds other than health or environmental grounds, which would be assessed exclusively by the european food safety authority.
the european parliament, which is committed to ensuring a stronger legal basis for international trade rules, insisted that member states should be able to invoke additional environmental grounds.
it therefore seems to me essential to strengthen the role of the european food safety authority (efsa) in order to ensure optimum food and environmental safety throughout the continent.
these include environmental, socioeconomic impacts, land use and land use planning.
the diversity of ecosystems and agricultural practices in europe, as well as the lack of reliable data on local impacts, resistance to pesticides, the preservation of biodiversity, the risks of contamination of traditional or organic crops that can practically not be controlled are sufficient justifications for member states to legitimately prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory.
the member states will be able to invoke environmental reasons such as the preservation of biodiversity, the lack of data or resistance to pesticides.
i agree with the analysis that the commission's original proposal was rather vague, suggesting that gmos could be refused on purely ethical grounds but not on environmental or health grounds, which was not satisfactory.
the text voted on tuesday therefore allows member states to be free to choose and, if they wish, to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms for reasons other than health or the environment.
it must be the subject of deep scientific and environmental reflection and must not be subject to demagogic and unrealistic considerations.
in my view, authorization to prohibit or not to prohibit the cultivation of gmos can only be granted following an independent expertise based solely on objective health and environmental grounds and in full respect of the precautionary principle.
− in my work as both the latvian minister of the environment and the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the saeima, i have always advocated latvia as a country free of genetically modified organisms.
the risks to biodiversity, the diversity of cultivation methods, the economic impact on conventional and organic farming and the low number of studies on the environmental and health impacts of gmos require that member states have such a legal framework to prohibit such cultivation.
the problem of the wto and the need to take environmental and social issues into account at this level will remain unresolved.
europe 2020 strategy, the energy market, strengthening military capabilities in the service of nato, combating protectionism by third countries and the establishment of the single transatlantic market by 2015 - all is almost done!
i voted in favour of this resolution which represented an ambitious compromise on climate objectives.
the idea was ambitious: to go beyond the 20% reduction target in greenhouse gas emissions!
raise the european union's stated commitment to leadership in the field of climate change and sustainable development.
the eickhout report called on the commission to make proposals to move towards a 30% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020. but some of our colleagues in the european parliament decided otherwise: by refusing to commit themselves to the 30% reduction, they led a majority of us to reject the report in the final vote.
i regret that, especially since we are already at a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990 levels and are therefore on the way to reaching 20%.
the votes have shown that a majority of parliament is in favour of a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, but that is not enough!
the text acknowledges the inefficiency of the carbon market, but does not draw any conclusions from it.
however, it compensates for these serious shortcomings by advocating a binding commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% by 2020. it also wants to make the 'polluter pays' principle prevail and calls for increased efforts to increase the share of renewable energies in the european energy mix.
i abstain to encourage these few steps towards an ecological transition.
i believe that the european union must have an ambitious policy in terms of reducing its own internal greenhouse gas emissions, and thus set an example by deciding to go from 20% to 25% ghg reduction, and even unilaterally.
however, this is an indispensable measure to help our regions to emerge from the crisis by financing very concrete projects which promote sustainable growth in these areas.
with this vote we propose to concentrate european efforts on financing border areas, which are lagging behind in the development of transeuropean networks (transport, energy, communication), whereas they are the points of articulation of the european territory.
even if the report adopts the new category of intermediate regions, which is an obvious step towards a fairer distribution of the structural and cohesion funds, i did not want to vote in favour of it, because the adopted report does not mention certain essential points on which environmentalists cannot turn a blind eye: taking into account environmental and social criteria, in addition to gdp, as indicators for the allocation of funds, better taking into account climate change, future energy challenges and local development.
all too often, the absorptive capacity of this aid is overestimated, leading to either waste or spillage.
the european union has a key role to play in the energy field, an area where a european approach is fully justified!
the challenges are many: securing energy supplies, diversifying production methods, projects of european interest - all of this can only be done at european level!
what we lack most, in the energy field as in the fight against climate change, is political will!
i voted for this report and will be very attentive to the proposals that the european commission is to make in october on energy infrastructure.
we will also have to monitor closely the development of the next multiannual financial framework to ensure that there is a sufficient budget to enable the development of a genuine common energy policy.
european energy infrastructure projects should be financed, in particular, by european bonds, which would make it possible to increase investment and ensure complementarity between public and private partners.
i welcome the adoption of this report, which is an undeniable first step towards an eu energy policy that encourages the successful interconnection of energy networks between member states, across regional borders.
in order to respond to the main challenges facing the development and security of energy infrastructures at european level, the european parliament wished to adopt an own-initiative report in preparation for the legislative proposal for a new european instrument in this field.
modernisation, cross-border interconnection and rapid adaptation of energy infrastructure are essential if the 2020 energy targets are to be met, in particular as regards the share of renewable energy in the energy mix of the member states.
the report also stresses the need to promote industrial and infrastructure development in a sustainable way and to develop technology transfers in order to stimulate growth and reduce poverty among the population of poor countries.
several positive points: the use of a financial transaction tax to achieve the 0.7% gni target, including for development aid; the need to remove obstacles to development such as agricultural dumping, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade; the need to address the root causes of food price speculation and land grabbing in the area of food insecurity; the demand to end the seed monopolies; the need to tackle climate change by first reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe, by increasing the targets in member states, rather than in developing countries.
i believe that with all that we have to do for the ecological transformation, for the democratic transformation and for the actions of the european union parliament, we need a budget that exceeds the 1.05 per cent percentage you propose.
the euro will only be stabilised if the countries in difficulty actually implement the reforms needed to put public finances on a sound footing and create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth.
like the european parliament, you have identified the major challenges for europe, namely food security and energy dependence.
it has been noted that the polish presidency has been rather lukewarm on the subject of climate and has not been inclined to make it a priority, when there will be durban at the end of the year.
the european parliament has made it very clear that co2 emissions must be reduced by 25%, and even 30%.
unfortunately, i do not feel that you are as committed to ecological security as you were this morning, and i appreciate that, as regards energy and food security.
i think that ecological security is also fundamental and that we cannot have one without the other.
another point, now, at the end of the year, (the president interrupts the speaker) there will be the meeting of the energy ministers; i would like you to consider the requirement to have a policy for a moratorium on shale gas.
for this reason, in this report, we propose, yes, the golden rule for educational expenditure; we are proposing to set up, finally, this european energy community which will bring the concept of solidarity to life among us.
what are you waiting for to force our corporations, which say they are socially responsible, to be accountable for their social and environmental responsibilities?
we must have the courage to give the european central bank a completely new role, to restructure the debts of the states, and to ensure the repurchase of all or part of them by monetary creation, and to replace the financial stability fund with a fund for social, human and ecological development.
i was not ignorant of the imperatives of road safety, but nevertheless most of the speakers who spoke yesterday in the debate were from the left, the far left, the environmental movement, and they were suddenly discovering the virtues of repression: repression as a means of restoring order, repression as a means of ensuring compliance with the law and repression as a means of protecting victims.
to turn this strategy into smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we will need to make investments that are up to the challenge, put in place a legal framework to ensure the safety of internet users (fight against cybercrime, protection of private data) and pay fairly to all net actors.
by advocating clearer and more visible labelling, particularly on energy value, consumers will be better informed instantly about the products they buy.
this also avoids the co2 emissions from long-distance transport.
the energy value, the amount of fat, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates and other proteins will now be clearly visible on the packaging.
the origin of meat will be mentioned on labels, the legibility of labels will be improved, with larger characters specifying in particular the energy value, and the presence of allergenic substances will also be indicated.
the introduction of the mandatory indication of the expiry date, the nutritional declaration and the energy value of the selected food is a major innovation.
manufacturers will have to provide the energy value and quantities of six nutrients (lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, proteins, sugars and salts).
the energy value, as well as the amount of fat, saturated fat, carbohydrates, sugar, protein, and salt, will be listed on the packaging.
in addition, for the first time, a nutrition declaration on the energy value, as well as the amounts of protein, fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar and salt will be mandatory.
the report shall include a visible indication on the food of the energy content, as well as the amount of fat, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt.
europe 2020 strategy, the energy market, strengthening military capabilities in the service of nato, combating protectionism by third countries and the establishment of the single transatlantic market by 2015 - all is almost done!
this report will serve as a basis for future member states' policies which will contribute to sustainable growth and jobs and to the preservation of the welfare state in the interests of the european union and above all of european citizens.
the inclusion of paragraphs 57 to 60 on energy policy seems to me to be absolutely essential.
with the treaty of lisbon, we now have the means to establish a genuine european energy policy.
in its november 2010 communication, the european commission estimated that up to €1 trillion of investment needs in the energy sector by 2020. the priority will be to develop interconnections to secure the networks, or to create more infrastructure for the purpose of diversification and energy independence.
it is also important to note, as the report emphasizes, that investment in renewable energy will be a guarantee of new jobs and competitiveness for the europe of tomorrow.
if we want sustainable growth, energy will indeed have to become an eu priority in the coming years.
only with european solutions, such as the issuance of euro-bonds that will allow for better management of sovereign debt, greater investment in education, research and vocational training and the establishment of effective and sound economic governance, will europe be able to emerge from this crisis in a sustainable way.
however, while on 8 june parliament called in its report by the sure special committee for the union's budgetary means to be commensurate with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we can only regret that the message was not reiterated in the final version of the cris report.
i am particularly pleased with the creation of a eurobond system and the establishment of a european energy community.
he advocates energy savings and the increasing use of renewable energy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the people are deploying enormous energy at the moment to overthrow the freedom-loving regimes that oppress them.
this energy is awe-inspiring and it undoes a lot of the prejudices about the so-called atavisms of the arab world.
but i ask you, madam high representative, even if you have to devote all your energy to it, to switch from words that soothe to solutions that construct.
as regards the future, the commission made various initial proposals in 2008, followed by an amended proposal in september 2010. the express aim of these proposals was to make the scheme sustainable as intervention stocks become increasingly scarce.
i therefore join the other members who have spoken in this vein in asking the commission not to abolish these appropriations, even if it subsequently finds the appropriate means of making this food aid scheme for the poorest sustainable and in accordance with the regulation.
is there not the greek crisis, the debt crisis in the eurozone, industrial challenges, climate challenges?
as the european union faces an ageing population, member states are called upon to think of new smart and sustainable policies.
but the question of the sustainability of this fund has been raised for several years.
today, we are not dealing with a crisis of confidence in the international community, but first and foremost with a crisis of globalisation, and the issue is no longer one of 'increasing liberalization' but of course one of regulation, in a world where we are all witnessing the damage caused by the globalisation of trade, both from an environmental and a social point of view.
how do we stop environmental, social, fiscal or monetary dumping?
let us take note of the end of the doha round, let us adopt a limited package, reserved for the least developed countries, but above all let us launch an ambitious and transparent process of reform of the world trade organisation, a process which guarantees the fair participation of all the stakeholders and interests, especially the weakest countries, which finally subordinates commercial law to social law, environmental law and, of course, human law and which, in fact, clearly shows a multilateral regulatory agenda that puts globalisation back in its rightful place.
if exploration or exploitation permits are granted, then, in the event of an accident - as we have seen in the gulf of mexico and also in scotland - there will be irreversible or very destructive losses to this unique environment in the world.
at the same time, amendment no 47 defines civil liability, which is capable of covering not only environmental damage but also social and economic damage, with the guaranteed financial capacity for compulsory insurance.
the sustainability of the schengen area is therefore closely linked to the success of frontex missions.
the priority given by local authorities to large structural local development projects raises the question of taking into account their impact on the environment.
i believe that there can no longer be any compromise when it comes to protecting our environment, our quality of life or our health.
some of these projects are likely to have a real impact on people, biodiversity and our living environment, and it is up to us to ensure that the precautionary principle prevails and to establish a system of adequate liability and compensation.
i believe that this approach must be applied from design to implementation, with public consultation and consideration of the risks, alternatives and ways of eliminating all risks to the environment and the population.
by limiting the profits from this trade, the european union will help to reduce deforestation in tropical areas and thus protect biodiversity and the climate.
this agreement, although less binding than the bilateral flegt agreements, has the advantage of binding a larger number of tropical fruit producing countries (60 in total, including 33 developing countries), thus allowing the development of the principles of sustainable management and restoration of degraded forest areas on a larger scale.
the european union and the swiss confederation aim at the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin (pdos) and protected geographical indications (pgi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development.
in 2009, in auckland, new zealand, the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific was adopted and opened for signature for a period of 12 months from 1 february 2010. the european union signed it on 26 july 2010. the aim is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the south pacific.
i support our rapporteur who believes that the union must be present in all regional conventions, both to defend its priorities in terms of sustainable fisheries management and to defend the interests of its fishing fleet.
the objective of this convention is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources in the south pacific.
the european union must be present in all the rfmos, both to ensure sustainable fisheries management and to defend the interests of its fishing fleet.
exits the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with the ipcc recommendations.
exits the assessment of the social and environmental consequences of projects financed or insured by the states.
the relocation of the economy, which is necessary for the survival of our ecosystem and food sovereignty, is far away.
i supported this resolution because it offers a balanced approach and solutions to the economic (access to resources) and ecological (recycling) challenges of this issue.
it also stresses the importance of a fair and sustainable supply of raw materials to the european union.
i voted in favour of this 'effective raw materials strategy for europe' as it is essential to ensure the european supply of strategic and critical raw materials in a fair and sustainable way.
i did not vote in favour of this report for the following reasons: i share the view that the european union must have a real strategy for raw materials because the current situation is not sustainable.
on the contrary, i would have liked the report to have focused on other issues: the effect of extraction on the environment and global warming, its consequences for local populations and the conflicts that can result.
europe must ensure a fair and sustainable supply of these strategic lands, but also find alternative solutions.
i welcome the fact that the european union, with its limited traditional natural resources, has adopted this roadmap to ensure a sustainable and responsible supply of raw materials.
this roadmap thus contributes to the efforts already made by some member states at the last g8, which clearly understood the need to guarantee fair access, price stability and the sustainability of raw material supplies.
however, institutional coordination could produce tangible results in protecting fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring the economic development of coastal regions and preserving the ecological balance and fisheries resources in the basin.
i voted in favour of mrs iotova's report, which proposes, firstly, to put in place a specific policy to preserve and improve the situation of fish stocks and to ensure the existence of a fisheries sector adapted to the black sea basin, secondly, to support more targeted and better coordinated scientific research at regional, national and european levels in order to preserve ecosystems, thirdly, to provide for an appropriate status within the framework of community policies to promote sustainable fisheries, and finally to implement a specific regional organisation for the management of fisheries in the black sea.
widening the scope of environmental responsibility: this is what the report we have just adopted is all about.
we could have done better in this report, but the principle has been adopted: operators must prove that they have sufficient financial means to repair any damage caused to the environment.
the ford report argues that the highest safety and environmental standards should be applied to all offshore oil and gas activities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
in addition, financial liability will have to be introduced, requiring oil and gas producers to have sufficient financial capacity to repair any damage caused to the environment.
i supported this own-initiative report on the security of offshore oil and gas activities, as i believe it is essential to draw lessons from the disaster in the gulf of mexico in april 2010. such an initiative allows the european union to strengthen the security of these offshore activities and to provide an inventory of capabilities to provide for environmental crisis management mechanisms at european level.
we must draw the consequences of the explosion last april at the deepwater horizon oil rig in the gulf of mexico, which caused immense environmental, economic and social damage in the region.
the challenge is well identified: how to reconcile security of supply with security of energy exploration and exploitation?
more and more europeans are concerned about the impact on their environment of intensifying these activities to meet the growing demand for fossil fuels.
i am also pleased that our parliament has established the competence of the european maritime safety agency to ensure the safety of offshore installations and to combat pollution at sea and on the coasts.
we have no time to waste on how to protect our environment!
unfortunately, its means of action and pressure are still limited, particularly in relation to the environmental risk of projects which are sometimes almost completed.
i think there is a lot that can be done, also in terms of exports: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
− madam president, i would like to give particular thanks to mr seeber and mr skylakakis for this opportunity to explain the commission’s approach regarding man-made non-co2 climate-relevant emissions.
you are quite right; non-co2 gases are a significant contributor to climate change.
if we wish to cut our greenhouse gas emissions substantially, we must address emissions from non-co2 gases in an effective way.
the recent roadmap for moving to a low-carbon economy by 2050 explores cost-efficient pathways for key economic sectors in order to meet the 2050 eu objectives for greenhouse gas emissions reduction.
this analysis clearly shows that the eu should reduce agricultural non-co2 emissions by 42-49% and other non-co2 emissions by 70-78% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
as you know, the eu has already taken a number of measures to reduce such emissions.
the annual binding greenhouse gas emission targets for member states will deliver a 10% reduction of emissions from the covered sectors in 2020 compared with 2005 levels.
we already address hfc emissions through the regulation on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and the directive on fluorinated emissions from mobile air-conditioning.
moreover, if properly applied, the regulation on certain fluorinated gases (‘f-gases’) could, together with the directive on mobile air-conditioning, prevent almost half of the projected fluorinated gas emissions by 2050. even more importantly, the report shows that there are options which could contribute to further cost-effective reductions.
at the meetings of the parties to the montreal protocol, the commission, as the negotiator for the european union, supports the north american and micronesian proposals to phase down global production and consumption of hfcs as a complement to mitigation action under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the commission is also fully aware of the short-term climate implications of black carbon and tropospheric ozone, particularly – as i think mr seeber mentioned – in the arctic area and in the alpine regions.
the joint research centre of the european commission has played a key role in several recent science assessments, in particular in the united nations environment programme (unep) 2011 integrated assessment of black carbon and tropospheric ozone.
within the eu, the commission is preparing a review of the thematic strategy on air pollution.
the review will be concluded in 2013 and will address air quality matters and their interlinkages with climate change policy.
black carbon and tropospheric ozone issues will be considered as part of that review.
finally, in an international context, the eu is addressing pollutants like black carbon and tropospheric ozone under the convention on long range transboundary air pollution.
together with other european and north american countries, we are presently negotiating binding emission targets for ozone-creating pollutants.
if a successful agreement can be struck by the end of this year – and i understand from my colleague commissioner potočnik, who is responsible for these negotiations, that this outcome is within reach and there is a very good chance of achieving it – some improvements can be expected by 2020. finally, i know that unep will publish a report very soon setting out possible measures to reduce levels of black carbon in an effort to push for an international action plan for which international backing can be secured at rio+20 in brazil next june.
i therefore welcome the remarkable work of my colleagues, mr seeber and mr skylakakis, who are indeed, with this resolution, anticipating environmental projects and environmental standards.
if we adopt this text, this resolution, it is to prepare us for the implementation and anticipation of measures to combat global warming.
we all agree that economic actors are suffering today and that it is essential that we do not once again impose major environmental standards on our companies.
by dragging its feet on the implementation of the aid plans for greece, the reluctant coalition is simply turning what should be a strong solidarity movement into a waste of public money towards a bottomless pit.
what we need is to get back to investing in sustainable growth, but when will this message be heard?
yes, there is intellectual responsibility when something happens, because we create a climate - as guy verhofstadt said - in which crazy people, crazy people can then act in this way.
energy is at the heart of human activities.
i therefore voted in favour of this draft regulation because it will ensure greater transparency in the wholesale energy market and thus greater price stability for the benefit of final consumers.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation aims to outlaw market abuse by requiring players to provide insider information to regulatory agencies.
this regulation is a major step forward in the regulation and transparency of energy markets.
it has the dual advantage of being limited to wholesale energy markets and of being a tool against price volatility, in order to guarantee financial security to the consumer.
i voted in favour of this report which will ensure greater transparency in energy market transactions within the european union.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the integrity and transparency of the energy market.
it sets out new rules to put an end to abusive practices in the wholesale energy market, including giving more powers of control and sanctions to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acre), which was set up in 2009. at a time when the completion of the internal market in gas and electricity is one of the main objectives of european energy policy and when research and investment are being directed towards the development of transeuropean energy networks, it is more than necessary that this new market be subject to rules to protect consumers.
energy exchanges between member states are also expected to increase in the coming years.
the research currently being carried out in the north sea to create a network capable of transporting offshore wind energy is just one example of what is needed for the future.
i voted in favour of the remit regulation to combat market abuse in the energy sector.
trade in wholesale energy will now be independently controlled throughout the european union.
the text provides for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators to monitor the electricity and gas markets in cooperation with the national regulatory authorities.
we have also called for the creation of a european register of energy operators.
this report provides for the establishment of an internal energy market based entirely on free and undistorted competition.
it delivers energy resources to the law of profit.
the citizens will pay the bill again and the ecosystem will suffer.
what europe needs is a public energy hub.
it is therefore only natural that i should have voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to put an end to abusive practices in the wholesale energy market which would be to the detriment of consumers.
i welcome the fact that wholesale energy trade is now independently monitored throughout the european union and hope that the commission will be able to give the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) the means to carry out its monitoring and investigation function in respect of infringements of the regulation.
the european transparency initiative, the adoption of a parliamentary resolution in april 2006 and the adoption of the aarhus convention (on access to documents containing environmental information) have forced the commission to propose an amendment to the existing environmental regulation to extend its scope to other eu bodies and agencies.
only a regulated and fair global trading system will put trade at the service of sustainable development.
multilateralism remains the best framework for ensuring fair trade that contributes to the sustainable development of all continents.
they must also commit to including social and environmental standards in the negotiations, because they are the basis of current dumping.
in addition, they must help to address new global challenges in which trade plays a role, such as food security, energy, sustainable development and trade assistance.
for the year 2010, the european parliament registered 1655 petitions, which represents a decrease of 14% compared to 1924 petitions in 2009. the environment remains the petitioners' main concern, followed by fundamental rights, the internal market and justice.
the environment remains one of their main concerns.
once again this report shows us the particular interest of european citizens in environmental issues and the need to become more involved in the environment.
this resolution calls on the european commission to adopt a comprehensive approach to combating climate change, i.e.
not to forget black carbon, hfcs, fluorinated gases, etc.
in its fight against climate change, as these gases also have an effect on the climate.
i have, however, spoken in the plenary to remind you of two essential points: firstly, yes, we must prepare ourselves to take action against these gases, which have consequences similar to those of co2 on the climate, and secondly, no, the time has not yet come to act on this issue: it is essential to give our industry a chance to breathe and to adapt!
i think this resolution is an interesting sign of the european parliament's determination to address the international community on climate issues: more than ever, especially on environmental issues, governance is planning...
in writing.
states must accelerate their efforts to combat global warming and further reduce their emissions of fluorinated gases, used in refrigerators and air conditioning systems, among other things.
the policy to combat global warming is mainly focused on carbon dioxide.
however, taking stricter measures against other greenhouse gases would be effective and inexpensive.
targeting emissions of hfcs is profitable because they can be reduced at a cost of 5 to 10 cents per tonne compared to 13 euros per tonne for carbon dioxide.
the european commission also needs to tackle 'carbon black' (small particles of carbon found in soot), including through legislation on car emissions.
carbon black has a significant impact on global warming by absorbing heat from the sun and accelerating the melting of snow and ice.
rapid and coordinated action is essential to tackle global warming.
co2 is not the only cause of global warming.
greenhouse gases such as carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox) and methane also contribute.
this strand makes it possible to finance concrete projects aimed at promoting investment, social cohesion, the environment or mobility around the mediterranean.
however, insecurity and restricted access mean that not all relief is getting through to the neediest southern-central regions of somalia and working to improve access conditions should be a priority.droughts are recurring phenomena, intensified by climate change.
in all countries in the region food security is a focal factor for development cooperation for the eu, the aim being to build sustainable and resilient livelihoods among farming and pastoralist communities.
we need to look beyond emergency aid and invest in the long term in agriculture, which is the main source of food and income in the region, and in building sustainable infrastructure.
in addition to deadly conflicts, the scarcity of natural resources, and the rising prices of these resources, there are climate change, land grabbing, and speculation in commodities.
finally, the european union must be more ambitious in the fight against climate change, and more generous in its aid to developing countries for adaptation.
neither the fight against hunger, nor the fight for development, nor the fight against climate change can be considered as adjustment variables.
is it not time to encourage and assist african regional organisations that wish to implement common agricultural policies and sustainable development plans?
this question deserves to be considered, as do the consequences of extreme events due to global warming, the political situation in the backward developing countries, the role of developed countries' policies towards them, and the effectiveness of food aid organization.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
it must help to promote long-term and sustainable development, which africans must be in control of.
i supported the calls for the european union to assume all its responsibilities, not only financial but also diplomatic and political, on development, the fight against climate change, but also the fight against commodity speculation.
it stresses that we can do more to achieve this goal by tackling smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, pollution, and by promoting physical activity and healthy eating.
tourism that is innovative and competitive but also respectful of the environment, cultures and local specificities.
sustainable tourism, cultural tourism, business and congress tourism, health tourism, these are the priorities.
the fact that the european parliament has not yet been able to adopt the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a serious matter.
as she so clearly stated, we live in a world where the frequency and intensity of disasters is on the increase, and climate change, population growth and urbanisation, as well as terrorism, put us at a higher risk.
in this context, we ask them about the consideration of social and environmental standards, the role of the agricultural sector, and reciprocity in market access.
the caspary report rightly points out that free trade is not an end in itself, that there are economic, social, environmental or moral interests to be defended and that globalisation may not be as happy as the commission continues to believe.
madam president, commissioner, beyond the work done by daniel caspary, i believe that the new trade strategy proposed by the commission does not respond to the challenges facing europe in the face of the financial, economic, social, environmental and food crises we are experiencing, nor to the expectations of our citizens who are calling for more regulation and a new model of sustainable growth and development for the planet.
the inclusion in all free trade agreements of binding social, environmental and human rights standards, guaranteeing decent working conditions, is an imperative.
look at the united states launching a federal program for "made in usa" on energy efficiency, robotics, advanced materials... europe must identify the ariane and airbus of 2050 and change outdated rules to meet the needs of today's economy.
the european union must prepare for the future and cannot afford to waste money investing in basic research until innovative products and services are brought to the market.
while it is urgent to find ways of tackling the crisis europe is currently experiencing, we must also think about the future and the levers that will be needed to ensure a return to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
− in view of the current situation in the eu countries and in particular in the euro area, particular attention should be paid to sustainable economic development, productivity and global competitiveness.
climate change, population growth associated with urbanisation, industrialisation and environmental degradation are all possible causes of this increase.
i think the proposals are rather positive, such as the dissemination of expertise and good practice, the prior identification of the resources available to states, the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, references to climate change but also to the responsibility of private actors and the provision of assistance and humanitarian aid independently of any political considerations.
the objective set out in the report is to ensure that the european union remains the world's leading tourist destination, through four pillars: quality, visibility, competitiveness and sustainable development.
the measures proposed also provide for greater visibility and diversification of tourism activities, which we must fully support in a difficult economic environment.
given the economic weight of this sector, particularly in france, and the cross-cutting nature of tourism, at the crossroads of many european policies (transport, environment, regional development, consumer protection), it is time to have a coherent vision and objectives to make the tourism sector more sustainable, competitive and a vehicle for growth.
our parliament has adopted an ambitious strategy, identifying four pillars of action to ensure the attractiveness of the destination 'europe': competitiveness, visibility, quality and sustainability of tourism.
tourism faces several challenges, particularly climate change, which has a major impact on the infrastructure and organisation of the industry.
it is a great victory, among other things, that parliament recognises that the belo monte dam in brazil can cause serious damage to the invaluable ecosystem and the precious biodiversity of the amazon and to indigenous peoples.
the risk of using large dams to prevent flood damage is also considered, as their safety is threatened by the increase and intensity of floods, the primary cause of which is global warming.
the european parliament took the opportunity to call on the union to make greater commitments on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to meet its objectives of limiting climate change to 2°c above pre-industrial levels.
it affirms the right to food, stresses the need to increase support for the agricultural sector, in particular for small farms, and to focus on sustainable production.
parliament today reaffirmed its desire to see social, environmental and human rights standards as binding and legally binding in all trade agreements concluded by the union.
similarly, the european union must develop a genuine strategy for access to raw materials and rare earths from a competitive, social and environmental point of view to ensure that european industry has efficient and secure access to resources in the years ahead and to increase research and development on the recycling of these rare materials in order to reduce its dependence on them.
finally, if the european union is to maintain its key role in world trade, all current and future trade negotiations must be instruments for promoting european social and environmental standards.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by mr caspary asking the commission to present a real trade strategy for the eu to integrate social and environmental components into agreements between the european union and its partners.
the multilateral negotiations are at a standstill and we cannot expect any tangible results; they also help to communicate the union's values by including basic social and environmental standards.
while humanitarian, development and environmental issues can no longer be dismissed, 'the commission must give the union's trade interests a high level of priority' and other policies can only be considered in terms of their impact on those trade policies.
i believe that the union must adopt an integrated approach to its trade policy, since it covers many issues: competitiveness of production, socioeconomic, health and environmental standards.
and this, i beg your pardon, is a given, not dependent on our personal choices or our socio-cultural environment.
the funds allocated come from the under-implemented energy networks part of the european economic recovery plan.
this decision is all the more questionable as this increase is taken from the budget for the 'european energy networks for economic recovery plan', which could have been used otherwise.
it is a mistake to focus on tightening sanctions and rules without proposing a large-scale economic, environmental and social investment project.
to finance future projects in the fields of energy, transport, research and innovation, we need these so-called 'leapfrog projects' now, not in three or five years' time.
we must be careful not to run public deficits, but not at the expense of social justice and the investment in the future that is necessary for a sustainable economy.
in the end, only the proposals put forward by our colleague elisa ferreira will make it possible to provide concrete solutions to the macroeconomic imbalances undermining the sustainability and social foundations of the euro area.
we must be careful not to run public deficits, but not at the expense of social justice and the investment in the future that is necessary for a sustainable economy.
only a truly sustainable cap will ensure that fewer europeans need food aid.
citizens are sensing that europe is spending a lot of energy and resources to reassure the markets, as mr barroso's speech this morning showed, and that it is doing less and less to help the people who have been hit hardest by the crisis.
it is also a social and ecological crisis that we must put an end to.
we are now in an ecological deficit.
inequality is growing, and the problems are getting worse every year: climate change, deforestation, the collapse of fish stocks and the loss of biodiversity are the most obvious signs.
yes to an economy that consumes fewer resources, is more equitable, and is part of ecological sustainability and social justice.
and yes to an international status for environmental refugees.
yes to more accountability, justice and environmental democracy.
this resolution, as voted by the committee on the environment of this parliament, is an ambitious, voluntary and responsible position.
i call on the commission and the council to give it the scope it deserves at the highest level, for sustainable development on a global scale.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, as the united nations environment programme states, the concept of the green economy is complementary to the concept of sustainable development.
with this resolution we are affirming that we are finally putting the economy at the service of sustainable development, and not delegating the management of the ecological crisis to multinationals and financial institutions.
we must also succeed in creating this world environmental organization of which we have been talking for too long, an organization to which an international criminal court will have to be attached to try serious environmental crimes.
different technologies have different environmental, social and economic, and even geopolitical, consequences that should be assessed.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1992 earth summit in rio, the concept of sustainable development has been becoming more and more commonplace among the inhabitants of this planet and, in particular, among our fellow citizens in europe.
yes, the un environment programme must be strengthened by a un agency, or indeed a new world environmental organization with real means of action must be created.
i therefore approve the outline of the resolution drawn up by the committee on the environment and i would like to thank my colleague mr florenz for his patience with me.
however, one point particularly worries me: as you know, article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states, very clearly, that the choice of the energy mix is a national and solely national competence.
some colleagues apparently do not attach any value to the treaty and would like the european union to ask the whole world to abandon nuclear energy all of a sudden.
commissioner, sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs.
nuclear energy contributes directly to this sustainable development by being one of the lowest co2-emitting sources of energy.
nuclear energy is a key part of our energy resources: 78% of our electricity is nuclear.
nuclear energy guarantees us energy independence and stability of supply.
moreover, nuclear energy remains the cleanest and most reliable form of energy today.
the environment must be protected, but we must also be realistic and not penalize our economies by excessive ecological requirements.
this resolution calls into question this delicate balance and goes beyond the measures necessary to protect the environment.
we shall then have a debate on the conditions under which this fund is to be applied to multinational companies and on the conditions for its sustainability in budgetary terms, in order to ascertain exactly where these resources should be allocated in order to finance this action.
the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the best examples of social solidarity that europe can offer in the face of the global crisis and it is therefore essential to make it sustainable.
sustainable development is becoming more and more a part of our daily lives.
while article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu states that the choice of the 'energy mix' is a national competence, the greens wanted the eu to suddenly ask the whole world to get out of nuclear energy... and this even though some countries within it are producers of nuclear energy and others are large consumers of it!
we should not forget that nuclear energy contributes directly to sustainable development by emitting very little co2.
in the run-up to the next united nations conference on sustainable development, to be held in rio de janeiro, brazil, in june 2012, the european parliament today expresses its full commitment to sustainable development as a priority in national policies; the concept of a green economy is complementary to sustainable development.
in this resolution we believe that we must adopt a road map to put the economy back in the service of sustainable development.
rio + 20 will have to lead to concrete actions in the areas of water which we consider to be a public good , energy we remember that fossil fuels contribute to the greenhouse effect and that we need to develop renewable energy and agriculture which should be organic, sustainable and small-scale.
another important point is the creation of the world environmental organization, which we have been talking about for too long, and which will have to be joined by an international criminal court to try serious environmental crimes.
20 years after the first earth summit, the phrase 'can do better' could be applied to european policies to reduce the ecological footprint: research and development in renewable energy is still not receiving the necessary investment; the european industrial policy is not innovative enough in recycling activities and the energy mix has yet to be developed throughout the european territory.
we need a 'green economy roadmap' with new measures and quantified targets to achieve sustainable growth.
industrialized countries also have a responsibility to promote sustainable development and the preservation of biodiversity in developing countries.
the european union will have to speak with one voice and stand firm in its quantified targets on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the european parliament voted to support the use of nuclear energy in the future.
the dismantling of the nuclear industry would result in an explosion in energy prices for private individuals.
as human beings, we have a special responsibility to preserve our environment and the planet on which we live.
the guilt of man, especially of western man; the alleged need for a true world government; the desire for decrease in growth; the encouragement of international migration by the creation of the concept of "climate refugees"... these assumptions are, strangely enough, sometimes incompatible with other dogmas or principles which you defend elsewhere: for example, total freedom of world trade, which by definition leads to an explosion in international transport, with the resultant increase in pollution and fuel consumption.
it even advocates the establishment of an international status for climate and environmental refugees and the creation of an international environmental tribunal.
this will further increase the pressure on the limited supply of natural resources we have and the management of the waste streams we produce.
moreover, while climate change poses a serious threat to the world's population, greenhouse gases continue to increase.
we urgently need to change our lifestyles and development models, finally shifting our focus to sustainability.
the text of this resolution calls for sustainable development to be at the forefront of all eu processes and policies.
i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament clearly advocates an offensive position of the european union in favour of sustainable development.
the european parliament has made many observations, but it also recalls a number of proposals which i share without hesitation, such as: - the articulation of a global and local struggle; - the importance of linking sustainable development, reducing inequalities and respect for fundamental rights; - the citizens' ownership without which the political shift towards a real environmental policy cannot take place.
i hope that the rio summit in june 2012 will produce strong decisions, unlike the copenhagen summit on climate change, whose results were not up to the challenge.
i welcome the adoption of this resolution which calls on the council and the commission, in particular, to obtain concrete and quantified commitments from third countries in terms of reducing emissions, combating deforestation and overfishing and all human activities that are destructive to the environment.
if the eu has decided to lead by example, through the energy-climate package, it cannot be the only one to fight global warming.
similarly, only imports of agricultural products which comply with european standards on consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and minimum social standards should be allowed into the european union.
the economic crisis, demographic changes, the sustainability of our social system, the return to growth and the completion of the internal market - these are the challenges of changing the present system.
the report also stresses the need to develop a 'green vat' strategy, in particular by introducing reduced rates for energy-saving products and services.
instead, the eu prefers to continue to be financed by offshore subsidiaries of multinational companies and does not ask for any other environmental guarantees than those that the european commission is willing to offer.
i voted in favour of this report, which encourages the european union to support programmes to develop natural resources, combat global warming and combat poverty.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, public procurement is a great lever to boost the european economy, create quality jobs and make the choice of more socially and environmentally sustainable offers.
do you think that's sustainable?
my colleague mr tatarella's report deals with the reduction of emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter from small tractors.
each phase corresponds to a limit of emissions not to be exceeded and the installation of more efficient technological systems.
while reducing emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter is essential, i agree with mr tatarella, who stresses the difficulties faced by producers in meeting the technological requirements, despite the postponement of the date of introduction of the different phases.
in the context of the european policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the union considered it appropriate to set emission limits for engines for non-road vehicles (locomotives, boats, construction machinery, etc.
it sets maximum levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) emissions from diesel engine exhaust gases in construction, agricultural and forestry machinery, motor rails and locomotives, inland waterway vessels, constant speed engines and small gasoline engines used in various types of machinery.
as highlighted in the europe 2020 strategy, eu public procurement policy is central to achieving the objectives of innovation, competitiveness and the environment.
the rühle report, which i supported, makes several recommendations: a clearer legal framework; better exploitation of the potential of public procurement, for example by focusing on the most advantageous offer in the long term (economic, social and environmental benefits) rather than on the lowest price criterion; the commission will also be proposing a simplification of procedures to improve access to public procurement, particularly for smes.
contracts should be awarded not only to the lowest bidder but also to the most innovative or to the one offering the most attractive environmental or social benefits.
in the resolution on public procurement, the european parliament reinforced the commission's proposal for a social europe: the most significant advance is that local authorities should no longer opt for the economically lowest bid, but for the most advantageous one, for example, one that integrates environmental aspects.
this text contains several ecological considerations and a concern for the respect of collective agreements which i approve.
public procurement - which represents 17% of the eu's gdp - is a major instrument in supporting economic growth, innovation, employment, environmental protection and the efficiency of public spending in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
indeed, there is a cost to lowering the price of a bid by flouting basic social or environmental standards.
this resolution emphasises the importance of the principle of democratic ownership, the principle of non-fragmentation of aid, the need to give priority to the local and regional public market, the integration of horizontal issues such as gender equality, social inclusion, climate change.
(applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of redundancies affecting workers across europe should make us reflect on the role we as policy makers have to play in dealing with multinational companies that act without any social ethics, that carry out mass redundancies and relocate to reduce costs, increase shareholder profits and please rating agencies, in defiance of social and environmental standards.
the site, as part of the ulcos project, contains all the elements needed to establish a pilot project for the capture and storage of co2, thus meeting the difficult balance between heavy industry and environmental protection.
we are hearing today a kind of concert of mourners coming from the environmental groups, the liberal groups, the ppe groups, the socialist groups.
first of all, we must accelerate the transition to a sustainable economy and develop the enormous potential for green jobs that exists across europe, in order to protect and restore the quality of the environment and the quality of life of our citizens, in sectors as diverse as transport, energy supply and public services.
for all these reasons, commissioner, i can only call on you to use your energy to promote a fiscal europe, in order to put an end to the self-destructive competition between member states, whose first victims are growth, public finances and solidarity between european citizens.
on the one hand, we cannot but deplore the commission's inertia and even autism on the energy question.
we are seeing only marginal adjustments, and there is still this stubborn insistence on supporting ecological and technological dead ends, such as shale gas or the very expensive iter project.
the european union needs competitiveness, reciprocity in international trade, producers, but also a strong industrial policy, research policy and energy policy, and a europe that speaks with one voice in the world.
in an increasingly difficult international climate, we must stand firm and make the budget a tool to consolidate the europe of the people, to strengthen the europe of the workers and to consolidate the europe of the producers.
so my colleagues and i have decided to increase the share of the budget allocated to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the first post-fukushima budget still allocates a large share to the iter nuclear reactor, a costly and unnecessary project which is an energy and ecological dead end.
this budget, which is intended to focus on growth, employment and innovation, proposes more expenditure on the security and control of the european union's borders (a policy whose damage is already known), on support for research projects with a questionable impact on the environment and public health, on support for large enterprises (without social counterparts), than on education, youth, citizenship and the development of third countries in the framework of fair partnerships.
this report endorses the public-private partnership approach, a source of waste and plunder promoted by the commission.
our children need the best protection within their living space, regardless of their social environment.
we must not substitute over-dependence on the market for dependence on competing countries which do not respect social norms or environmental norms.
as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i supported a european parliament resolution which draws attention to a health reality: more than 25 000 deaths in the eu each year are linked to the growing resistance of bacteria!
if we want the railways to respond to the economic and environmental challenges of the single market, it is imperative that we improve the current legislation, which has left too much room for manoeuvre in a market which is struggling to break down.
the european council of 23 october also identified as one of the key priorities for achieving 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' the implementation of the 12 priority proposals of the single market act, the 12 proposals made by the commission for the recognition of professional qualifications.
this right would guarantee financial revenues to sports providers and thus avoid the increased risks of corruption or fraud in the sports environment.
europe can no longer afford to waste taxpayers' money on unnecessary subsidies.
it must be the engine of sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth.
secondly, the call for a framework directive aimed at ensuring the quality and above all the accessibility of all social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy and water.
we must make european funds more sustainable and optimum, in particular the programme of aid to the most deprived, which is being maintained at the moment, improve social protection, support local or national initiatives which develop services for the reception of children, the elderly and dependent persons.
investing in promoting innovation and social experimentation and in poverty reduction will enable us to implement a strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
since the barcelona process (1995), which became the union for the mediterranean (2008) under the french eu presidency, jordan and the eu have had economic, political, environmental and cultural relations, with the european neighbourhood policy complementing this union.
nuclear energy is an essential source of energy for some member states, including france, and helps to reduce their energy dependence.
i therefore voted in favour of my colleague jan březina's report which supports research activities in the field of nuclear energy, such as the completion of the iter reactor and sustainable waste management, but also research in the field of safety.
in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies!
the březina report concerns the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for research and training activities in the nuclear field (fusion, fission and radiation protection).
although i strongly advocate substantial financial support for research and development activities, nuclear energy actions deserve particular attention in terms of their purpose.
research and development efforts must also be made in the field of renewable energies, which are factors in job creation and ensure a high degree of environmental protection.
in the face of global warming and the prospect of an unprecedented peak in oil prices, nuclear power seems more than ever to be the energy of the future.
nuclear energy will therefore have a major role to play, despite the recent statements by some parties.
to oppose nuclear power outright in favour of so-called cleaner energy would, as the german case shows, be tantamount to favouring the use of coal as a source of electrical energy.
where is the environmental gain?
rather than contesting this energy developed at the very beginning of the eu, we should, as this report does, devote ourselves to proposing ways of better controlling the risks associated with the atom.
i am thinking in particular of iter, which aims to produce clean nuclear energy four times more efficiently in the long term, and yet is constantly criticized and endangered by environmentalists, who systematically oppose the vote on the european funds needed for this project.
the eu must find ways to manage these developments in a sustainable way, notably through cohesion policy.
this unfortunate situation has led speculative funds to create a climate of panic around greece by buying cdss en masse, which have become increasingly lucrative as the worries spread.
in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies!
in france, nuclear energy is a key element of our energy independence, since it provides 80% of our electricity consumption.
renewable energy has its place, but it cannot currently provide an adequate response to our energy needs.
it is therefore essential that we study the nuclear energy of the future, so that we can continue to provide our children with safe, high-quality energy at stable prices!
the european parliament voted by a large majority on tuesday 15 november on the brezina reports to extend research and training activities under the european atomic energy community framework programme for the years 2012 and 2013. the main objective was to ensure the consistency of these activities and the continuity of the commitments made with the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 and the 7th framework programme for research and development.
research in the broad sense on nuclear fission is essential to deepen our knowledge in this field and the continuation of the iter programme must not be exploited by those who oppose nuclear energy as an energy resource.
consumer protection requires an overall strategy that allows, on the one hand, to defend their interests and inform them of their rights, and, on the other hand, to empower them to encourage more sustainable consumption.
by adopting this report, we are thus strengthening the fight against inequalities, in particular by encouraging sustainable consumption, combating misleading advertising and increasing the safety of our citizens in the face of the trade in dangerous products.
consumer protection is a major challenge area: not only to ensure food safety, health and product safety, but also to tackle the problem of reducing inequalities between consumers in europe or the establishment of a low-carbon economy.
we also address several emerging challenges: the need to move towards sustainable consumption patterns, the need to meet the specific needs of older people in our ageing europe, the issue of social inclusion and vulnerable consumers, and the need to take account of new labelling requirements (fair trade, carbon footprint, etc.).
in this climate of mistrust, it is essential to support consumption by maintaining the relationship of trust between the buyer and the seller.
citizens should be able to benefit from clear and accurate information on all products they buy, whether health, safety or sustainability.
this support is essential for the safeguarding and sustainability of the equine sector, which also contributes to the vitality of rural areas.
however, i regret that our request to mention the equine sectors separately in order to make their current funding sustainable was not accepted.
bees are essential to the stability of our ecosystem.
bees play a fundamental role in the balance of the environment and food production in europe.
i have chosen to support this text because i believe it is essential to highlight the role bees play in our agriculture and our environment, and to support beekeepers who are currently facing difficult challenges.
indeed, beekeeping plays a crucial role in our rural areas and provides an important service to the ecosystem through pollination which helps to maintain biodiversity.
although the health of bees may seem to be an original concern, it actually has a significant impact on our environment, the preservation of the food chain and the economy.
we underestimate the role bees play in our agriculture and our environment.
beekeeping, through pollination, helps to maintain biodiversity.
the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture and, through pollination, provides important benefits for the environment, the economy and society, thus ensuring food security and the maintenance of biodiversity.
by transferring pollen from one plant to another, they ensure the sustainability and biodiversity of our crops, and thus our food security.
the overuse of pesticides, climate change, monoculture and parasitism have caused the colony collapse of bees.
the preservation of biodiversity, the quality of our food and the survival of the bee industry will depend on our willingness to act.
similarly, better use of eu funds will help achieve the europe 2020 strategy's goals for inclusive, smart and sustainable growth.
we know well what our common priorities are: we must achieve sustainable and job-creating growth; we must bring public finances back on track; we must restore confidence in our european union’s ability to get out of the economic crisis.
with the europe 2020 strategy we have the blueprint for achieving sustainable and job-creating growth.
twenty years on from its inception, we can show that the single market remains a key motor for sustainable growth in europe.
the european patent, roaming charges, the energy savings directive – these are all examples where early adoption would also show a european union determined to do everything possible to boost growth.
the growth we need to achieve in the european union has to go hand in hand with the creation of sustainable jobs.
i am also determined that we do not lose sight of our longer-term need to build an economic recovery that is sustainable.
next year will be a key moment of transition to the revised emissions trading system.
the rio+ summit will remind us of our global obligations for sustainability and green growth, looking in particular at a new water strategy.
new proposals on emissions for passenger cars and vans will spur innovation and give manufacturers the necessary regulatory certainty.
i know that now, in the face of the difficult situation in economic and budgetary terms of many of our member states, speaking about this agenda is not so popular, but i believe that we need these kinds of initiatives more than ever and we are working precisely on linking some of our initiatives in terms of climate action and protection of the environment with the e-economy, the digital economy, so that we can indeed have important breakthroughs in terms of our action for green growth.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr barroso, you have presented a programme which, in my view, does not take into account the extreme gravity of the crisis, the loss of popular sovereignty we have seen in recent days and the rejection by the people of the european idea itself, because europe is not, in fact, solidarity-based, social or ecological.
in connection with a new fund for human, social and ecological development, fuelled by a tax on financial transactions, which you have just mentioned, the fight against tax evasion, which you have also mentioned, and in connection with the european central bank, it would be possible to relaunch public services of transport, education, housing, health and social security of work and training, the indispensable investments creating jobs in europe.
yes, we have pockets of poverty and, in connection with this, we have heard that a head of state is questioning the sustainability of the funding of the food aid programme for the most deprived.
the worsening climate situation is becoming increasingly evident and emissions have never been higher than last year.
a tax on financial transactions, a carbon tax, a tax on sea and air travel?
yes, it is true that a kyoto ii that would be confined to europe would certainly be very good from an ethical and industrial point of view, because i share the view of our colleague florenz that we need to boost our industry in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
how can we then, by example and not just by word, convince the countries of the south - who are the first victims of climate change, because let us not forget that the first victims of climate change are the poorest countries and in the rich countries the poorest among us - that we must move forward?
how can we make the people of europe understand that the fight against climate change remains a priority in the face of a particularly serious economic crisis?
when president obama was elected, we had some confidence, and then, unfortunately, the house of representatives is climate skeptical.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, i would like to support the ambitious objectives of the resolution that will be voted on tomorrow, in particular the desire not to exceed the two degrees of increase in our climate, but also to allow a policy that ensures that these greenhouse gas emissions cannot exceed 20%.
– mr president, the eu committed itself to help developing countries reach the millennium goals, achieving 0.7 % official development aid by 2015, and committed itself on aid effectiveness, debt, climate, finance, etc.
2010 was a rich year for the apa, which met twice, as my predecessors said, in spain and the democratic republic of congo, to discuss, among other things, the impact of climate change in the acp countries, the impact of the global crisis, media freedom and independence and food security.
i meant by that, since the dimension of growth is of equal importance, as both presidents have stressed, we will of course have to involve the european councils in the preparation, whether they are the eurozone-level european councils or the european council as we know it, the social affairs council, the competitiveness council, the research council, the ministers responsible for energy, transport and innovation, the fight for employment, the fight against poverty, and i would like them to be able to intervene with the same vigour in the debate as the finance ministers.
the eurogroup, at its meeting a week ago, decided that this tranche could be paid if sustainability is proven, if we agree on a new greek programme which mr van rompuy agreed with us on 26 and 27 october, we make the payment of this sixth tranche conditional on the fulfilment of all the elements of all the decisions taken on 26 and 27 october in brussels and we expect to receive a letter from the greek prime minister informing us of the exact intentions, now and in the long term, of the greek authorities in responding to the recommendations and decisions taken on 26 and 27 october.
to do this, the founding act of the discussion - which is what you have called the annual growth review at least - should, it seems to us, become annual guidelines for sustainable growth.
the impact of climate change on acp countries, the social impact of the global crisis and food security were among the topics discussed.
the train, however, meets several of our requirements: more environmentally friendly modes of transport (europe 2020 objectives), more cost-effective, which contribute to the sustainable development of our territories while offering solutions to the increased need for speed and intermodality, both for passengers and for goods.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the eu and its partners to approach the next climate negotiations in durban, south africa, at the end of november with ambition and determination.
i agree 100% with the main message of this resolution: we need a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally binding international agreement for the period after 2011 because we must prevent global warming from exceeding 2°c and becoming irreversible.
in this fight against climate change, i am convinced that europeans will have to lead by example.
in this respect, i welcome the european commission's proposal that from 2014 onwards 20% of the eu's cohesion policy funds should be used to combat climate change.
with ten days to go until the durban conference on climate change and the international climate negotiations at a tipping point between stagnation and progress the eu must take the lead and reaffirm its commitment to the continuation of the kyoto protocol after 2012, and do so with one voice!
finally, it is recognised that the union economy would benefit from exceeding the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target by boosting green jobs and thus growth.
i am voting in favour of the creation of a roadmap to ensure that a comprehensive climate treaty is in place by 2015 at the latest and that air transport is included in the eu's emissions trading scheme as from 1 january 2012. i would, however, draw attention to the concern about the huge gap between international commitments and the un target of limiting global warming to 2°c.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the durban climate change conference.
i welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament in preparation for the forthcoming durban conference on climate change.
we call on the european union to reaffirm its firm commitment to the kyoto protocol and to be unequivocal in its support for a second commitment period after 2012. the union should formally invite all international partners to do the same in order to meet the kyoto protocol's greenhouse gas reduction targets and limit global warming linked to climate change to 2°c.
in particular, we emphasised the need to continue the implementation of the mechanism for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (redd+).
parliament has thus sent a strong message to activate a real mechanism to combat deforestation, which contributes 20% to greenhouse gas emissions.
the european parliament has just adopted a resolution expressing its expectations for the forthcoming climate change conference to be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december 2011. after kyoto, the durban conference will be a unique opportunity to make ambitious commitments to reach a comprehensive, balanced and, eventually, legally binding agreement.
by taking concrete and determined action to combat climate change, the european union is making a strong commitment to an economy based on greener growth and innovation.
the main focus of durban will be to put into practice the achievements of the cancun conference, such as limiting global warming to below 2°c, the system for monitoring and controlling the actions of developed and developing countries, and the creation of a green climate fund for the benefit of developing countries.
with two weeks to go until the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in durban, parliament had to send a clear message.
the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020 must be pursued.
it is urgent to conclude and act now, as co2 emissions increased by 6% in 2010. the climate catastrophe will become uncontrollable if ambition is not at the negotiating table.
i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which recalls the urgency for the international community to make concrete commitments to combat global warming at the durban conference.
indeed, a 2°c increase in temperature would have irreversible consequences for our environment and the well-being of future generations.
this must be avoided at all costs by extending beyond 2012 the kyoto process, which is the only international legal instrument that obliges countries to reduce their greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
in france, we even exceeded the targets set by the protocol in 2010, reducing ghg emissions by 10% compared to 1990, thanks in particular to nuclear power.
the eu has set an example with the energy-climate package, but it cannot be the only one fighting global warming indefinitely.
i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which calls for combating illicit financing, supporting international trade and private investment and helping developing countries to combat climate change.
the resolution first recalls the enormous contribution made to developing countries, in particular through the good management of aid for sustainable development in the fields of health, education, gender equality, biodiversity and many other areas.
the good health of european cinema unfortunately benefits almost only the large multiplex cinemas and leaves the rest of the profession, which is mainly made up of small entities, in a highly fragile situation in a highly competitive environment.
nevertheless, i feel that, of course, this text itself has weaknesses which were pointed out at the time, the weakness concerning the objectives set in the fight against antigypsyism and discrimination and then we now have, one month after the member states handed over their copy to the european commission, serious doubts about the energy that has been deployed by governments to include in the elaboration of these national strategies the actors, local and territorial authorities, ngos and the roma population themselves.
the european council of 4 february 2011, known as the european energy council, set out an ambitious european energy policy aimed at giving the people of europe the assurance that they will have secure, sustainable, best-priced energy with a guaranteed supply and contributing to european competitiveness.
this policy, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy, provides for investment in the development of low-carbon technologies.
nuclear fission and fusion are among the energy technologies which we europeans must maintain, develop and implement.
first, it brings the timetables of the research programmes into line with the financial perspective for 2007-13. secondly, it emphasizes safety, which is an essential element of the confidence that the operators of this energy owe to our fellow citizens.
by continuing the exploratory work begun through preparatory actions and pilot projects, we are ensuring that the european union's maritime ambitions are reflected in all the sectors concerned: environment, transport, energy, research, industry, fisheries and regional policy.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the immense potential of the sea is a decisive factor in the european union's competitiveness, particularly in the areas of sustainable development, maritime and land security and energy and food supply, which are also objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
these new sectors include, for example, the creation of offshore wind farms, investment in wave energy technologies, marine aquaculture and what is known as blue technology.
we can therefore say that the integrated maritime policy is considered a key priority for the sustainable growth of the european union.
this is why imp needs to be properly funded and implemented swiftly to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the main issues are: the need for the different uses to coexist; the commission has also proposed that the cfp should be extended to include the development of fisheries-related jobs, which should be an objective of the cfp, as well as the strengthening of maritime freight, the extraordinary industrial potential of offshore wind energy and the development of tourism.
since member states face common challenges (climate change, technological innovation, illegal fishing, the creation of a common maritime area, etc.
), the eu needs to take common action in this area (sustainable exploitation of maritime waters, sharing of knowledge) while remaining competitive and effective.
promoting the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, while supporting economic and sustainable 'blue' growth in terms of employment and technological development in all sectors of the maritime economy and in coastal, island and outermost regions, is what we will need to implement through this programme.
with five million europeans living from activities generated by the sea - shipbuilding, shipping, port activities, fishing, energy production, coastal tourism - interaction with the sea is intense, varied and rewarding.
we have a duty to promote the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, while supporting economic and sustainable blue growth.
the committee on transport and tourism adopted this report, which is mainly aimed at supporting the development and implementation of maritime basin strategies, promoting the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, and supporting economic and sustainable 'blue' growth.
in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies!
the summit will provide an opportunity for the us and eu to discuss the global and eurozone crises, climate change in preparation for the durban conference, and the arab spring and their support for the democratic transition.
it underlines the importance of our cooperation in the energy field.
the acta agreement has been ignored, as has the durban climate change conference!
digital is a growth-enhancing sector for the european economy and contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
however, in a context of declining fish stocks at sea and the gradual degradation of the marine ecosystem, it is important that the eu takes a leading role in international debates and proposes strong measures to combat illegal fishing.
this is an important report because illegal fishing is one of the most serious threats to biodiversity.
iuu fishing represents more than 15% of catches and threatens the sustainable management of fisheries resources and the whole sector.
we believe that this document should be a guideline for economic policy and that is why we propose that in future the commission should call this document what it is, namely not an annual growth review but a guideline for economic policy for sustainable growth.
in the committee on the internal market, catherine stihler's opinion emphasised the central role of the single market, the economic pillar of the union, at the heart of governance in the pursuit of sustainable, inclusive and social growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and for the benefit of all our citizens.
my group, on the other hand, cannot accept this austerity imposed on the peoples of europe and is therefore calling for a real debate on a new european project, free of the financial markets, with social, human and ecological progress and job security as its main objectives.
considering that aid to europe's immediate neighbours (in particular following the arab spring) is essential to guaranteeing europe's stability and that achieving the objectives of the strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth is a priority, i voted in favour of the böge report.
the budget as it stands today does not allow for economic, environmental and social recovery.
finally, the annual growth review should also be transformed into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' devoted to strengthening sustainable growth, governed by the co-decision procedure.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the negotiations on the eu-ukraine association agreement, firstly because it insists strongly on the conditionality of this agreement with the protection and promotion of human rights, and secondly because it recalls the strategic interest of ukraine for the european union, not only in terms of energy potential but also in terms of managing migration flows and fighting organised crime.
the european union must remain firm in its values and principles, which is why the association agreement must be a real window of economic and commercial opportunity for ukraine, but it must demand in return that ukraine respects the european environmental commitment in its energy activities, that it respects democratic values, the independence of the judiciary, human rights and fundamental freedoms and, above all, that it respects all the commitments it has made under this association agreement.
i also particularly welcome the european parliament's willingness to resume a necessary and effective dialogue with president yanukovych, the demand for reform of the judicial and electoral systems and the plan to strengthen energy cooperation to secure europe's energy supply.
with regard to economic and environmental issues, the mandate to extend the previous protocol did not leave us much room for manoeuvre during the last round of negotiations.
in other words, we really did not have the possibility to go for a better agreement referring to economic and environmental issues.
so in the case of any agreement, we have to significantly improve the text with regard to environmental, economic and legal/political aspects.
second, on environmental sustainability.
this agreement has negative consequences for the environment, since these fishing areas are notoriously overfished, and for the legal regularity of the expenditure, since the question of decolonisation of western sahara is still blocked by the moroccan state, whereas three quarters of the fishing area concerned is linked to this coast.
by proposing diy and short-term solutions to the increasingly costly large projects, the member states are underpinning the possibility for the union to assume its responsibilities in an efficient and sustainable way from 2013 onwards.
the union does not have the means to meet its international commitments; and yet research, innovation and energy are among the major challenges of the 2020 strategy, as are jobs, sustainable development and growth, and it is not by competing these different priorities... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to raise two points which i think are important.
of course, there can be no growth without putting public accounts in order, but the union must now work with the same energy and in the same coordinated way to strengthen and develop its industrial activities, its exports and its competitiveness.
this support for the iter project will not only contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 research and innovation strategy objectives, but also to reduce europe's energy dependence in the long term.
the same is true of energy.
this ambitious programme not only promotes research, innovation and employment, but also meets europe's objective of diversifying energy sources by focusing on the discovery of safer and cleaner energy.
above all, support for this innovative project could, in the long run, guarantee europe's energy independence.
the iter programme was launched to improve knowledge and control of nuclear energy.
but nuclear safety has always been and remains the sine qua non of the development of this energy.
it ensures our independence and access to cheaper energy.
i voted in favour of this text because we have national and european expertise to defend in the management of this energy.
with this additional 1.3 billion euros, the european union will spend 8 billion euros on nuclear research, compared with 2.4 billion euros allocated to other energy research, of which only 1.6 billion euros are for renewable energies.
this stubbornness about nuclear power is harmful to the public debate which should take place on the question of energy and the place of nuclear power.
it goes without saying that in the midst of the economic crisis, when every day brings new unemployed and excluded, this text is a provocation that ignores the worsening of social inequalities and environmental issues.
involving the upm is an undeniable success factor in areas such as the environment, economic development and youth.
whether on the eastern front, with the signing of the accession of croatia, with the launching of the eastern partnership last september, with the preparation of the association agreement with ukraine, or on the mediterranean front, with european support for the democratic process under way, the polish presidency has worked with great energy and i thank it for this.
we too must be able to react quickly and effectively if we are to survive in our institutional environment.
the european union must ensure that its citizens have access to products that meet high standards of quality, sustainability and fairness.
since the use of phosphates is bad for the environment, we must gradually learn to do without them.
thanks to the european union, our environment and our health are better protected.
detergents are the third largest source of phosphate discharges to surface water, after agriculture and waste water.
they are extremely harmful to the ecological balance of the waters of lakes and rivers, and especially to aquatic life.
the adoption of a directive aimed at limiting the use of phosphates is therefore a step forward in our fight to improve water quality and sustainable development.
the european marine environment and inland waterways are heavily polluted by phosphates contained in laundry and dishwashing products.
this measure is in line with the french environmental charter and the european policy of preserving fauna and flora, by encouraging the use of products that are more respectful of our environment.
the environment is a precious commodity and we must do everything in our power to preserve it.
i have supported this report which makes it possible to strengthen consumer protection and environmental protection by reducing to minimum levels the presence of phosphates in detergents in the european union.
the reduction of the presence of phosphorus compounds in waste water will help to combat the eutrophication process in lakes and rivers (algae growth).
a considerable proportion of these phosphates come from the waste from detergents used in washing machines and dishwashers.
because morocco is committed to sustainable fishing, and because hundreds of european fishermen and thousands of moroccan workers depend on it, i voted in favour of extending the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco.
russia is undeniably a key partner of the european union, with whom we must strengthen our energy cooperation in the fight against climate change, our trade, our negotiations for the resolution of global conflicts and conflicts in our neighbourhood.
but it uses it as a pretext for aggressive propaganda against the backdrop of inter-imperialist competition for control of energy raw materials.
it is therefore essential that national enforcement authorities - and, as a priority, national coastguard services - act in synergy to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of transnational actions.
commissioner, allow me to remind you in the minute i have left - i was a little bit hungry after your opening statement in our debate and i will explain it in a moment - how much has changed since the adoption of the white paper on transport in 2001. however, despite all the efforts made, it is clear that ten years later, transport is still not sustainable.
i would like to see you in the debate, following our road map as we will adopt it tomorrow, go further with concrete proposals on, for example, the reduction of co2 emissions by 20% in road transport and the application of the polluter pays principle to all transport.
in addition, many employees warn of risks to people and the environment.
when will we incorporate social and environmental criteria into our trade agreements to combat dumping?
it does not spare any sector: transport, energy, telecommunications, "services of general economic interest", banking.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
created in 1999 following the oil spill caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the european maritime safety agency promotes cooperation between member states in maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships.
it also offers assistance in the event of serious pollution.
it is essential to have the tools to react quickly to contain the damage caused by accidents which can have disastrous environmental and economic consequences for our territories.
in 1999, the erika sank off the coast of brittany, causing a terrible environmental disaster.
the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was subsequently set up to combat marine pollution.
more than 10 years later, and with the recent grounding of the tk bremen on the breton coast a stark reminder that environmental disaster is still possible, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the role of the agency by extending its scope of activity.
in addition to the technical and scientific assistance already provided, the agency will be able to intervene in particular on pollution caused by offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities.
i believe that the agency should have the competence and the means to prevent all causes of pollution and to combat its disastrous effects on the environment and human health, at sea and on our coasts.
similarly, european standards in safety, energy and the environment must be promoted.
this is the path we must take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i therefore voted against this own-initiative report which also contained provisions to promote the circulation of the so-called 'mega trucks', the ecological benefits of which are questionable, to say the least!
it is essential that the european union has an ambitious transport plan to reduce road fatalities and carbon emissions.
by 2020, the number of people killed on european roads should have halved compared to 2010. parliament also called for an overall reduction of co2 emissions from road, sea and air transport by 20% compared with 1990 levels.
the objectives set out in this white paper set new milestones towards a european network that facilitates the movement of our citizens while reducing the environmental footprint.
despite some reservations, i voted in favour of this report, which sets ambitious and positive targets, including reducing co2 emissions in the transport sector by 2020. however, i regret that mega trucks (these giant trucks up to 60 tonnes and 25 metres long) are mentioned in this report.
the single market cannot function without the creation of a european transport area, which is essential to ensure that trade can take place between the different member states of the union without technical barriers, without additional costs and in a sustainable manner.
i welcome the adoption of the report by mr grosch, entitled 'roadmap for a single european transport area', which supports the objectives of interoperability of transport systems in europe and the reduction of their environmental footprint.
this must of course be done with respect for workers, quality of services, safety standards, the environment, at prices that are affordable for all and in a technologically neutral way.
this report highlights many of the points i share in respecting human rights and the environment.
the text sees central asia primarily as a "potential source of energy security for the union".
i supported this report in plenary because it is a good report, which seeks to take account of the new psychosocial, environmental and physical issues (in particular musculoskeletal disorders).