− madam president, the tropical rainforests in cameroon and the congo are precious and we must welcome this voluntary agreement to address the sustainability of the harvesting of the timber that they contain.
the forests belong not only to the people of these countries but they are part of the ecosystem of the planet, they are key to the life-sustaining systems and they contain billions of tons of carbon.
halting deforestation is one of the ways that we should be tackling climate change, and governments around the globe have been trying to do this for years.
heaven knows, building in sustainable management of our own continent’s resources is hard enough.
we must take care not to undermine our own efforts to fight deforestation and climate change by simultaneously providing the largest market for illegal timber products in the world.
first and foremost, the danger – it is not the intention, but there is a danger – of agreeing such a framework is that it is seen as providing a framework for large-scale exploitation of our forests, leading to the opposite of the purpose of the agreement, namely further degradation and further deforestation, thus contributing to the very destruction of the global environment we are trying to avoid.
what we want is an agreement that contributes to the conservation and sustainable management of our biodiversity resources.
secondly, indigenous people, who are so often the victims of environmental exploitation, should benefit from this agreement.
i support the purpose of the flexible rules of origin in this agreement, namely to develop the processing industry, but it is essential that the industry develops in a sustainable manner.
environmental considerations are paramount and i have asked, in my report, for the commission to monitor this aspect and to report back regularly to parliament on compliance with the regulation on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
i have recently heard major speeches which indicate that the common agricultural policy should actually shift to being an environmental policy.
our farmers should be supported to produce food in a way which is not harmful to the environment, and as for importing food, world markets are simply too volatile – both in terms of price and in terms of consistency of supply.
cancún was a significant step in the climate negotiations, at least it was able to keep alive the multilateral process and this was good, but in fact it was not enough from our point of view.
at the same time, those countries that are ready to go forward and make more commitments can and should do so, and the concrete way that i am going to propose to the european council on 1 february is to achieve more in terms of energy efficiency, an area in which we are falling short of where we should be.
on renewables i think we are on target to reach our goal for 2020 but not on energy efficiency so that is a concrete area where we can make more progress.
to ensure energy security and low costs to consumers in the future, europe must use all types of low carbon energy.
can the president of the commission therefore give an assurance that support for research into carbon capture and storage will continue into the future?
but i certainly hope that member states will give priority to investment in renewables and low-carbon technologies, and focus on the technology priorities established in the european strategic energy technology plan.
president barroso, you said just now that member states are achieving less than half what they set out to achieve on the 20% target for energy saving by 2020, so why is the commission not pushing hard to make that target binding on member states?
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare (11038/2/2010 - c7-0266/2010 - 2008/0142(cod)) (rapporteur: françoise grossetête) (a7-0307/2010).
in order for the european union to remain competitive in this sector, the eu has set itself the objective in the lisbon treaty of promoting the competitiveness of tourism and creating an environment favourable to business development.
madam president, this is a time when we should be discussing issues of economic governance, employment rights and the environment, all high on our agenda; a time when we should be celebrating the fantastic achievement of hungary which, for the first time, has the honour of the presidency, and it saddens me that the hungarian people – who stood up against oppression and fought for so long for democracy – are now having that democracy challenged by the new media laws in hungary and the protectionist policies used to attack foreign companies, casting a shadow on what should be a proud period for the hungarian people.
i also consider cooperation with libya useful in addressing issues such as security and stability, migration, public health, development, trade, climate change, energy and culture.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague derk jan eppink for his excellent report, but particularly to make a comment about the energy market, which the commission is going to look at this year.
as other members have pointed out, energy supply and pricing can vary greatly between different member states.
so i would like to ask the commissioner: when you are looking at the energy markets this year, please do not forget those who live in very rurally isolated areas.
we insisted very clearly then on the protection of the fragile arctic environment in a coherent way – on protection of this last wilderness, which is now an environmental flashpoint.
there seems to have been a very subtle shift – an undertow – in our thinking, towards security: security of energy supply and security to use resources.
the eu’s environmental footprint there is not light.
despite the challenging nature of the environment in the arctic, the rising price of oil has stimulated international interest in drilling in that zone.
needless to say, the recovery of so much oil will have a dramatic impact on the arctic and may cause ecological disasters on a global scale, so i think we have to ask ourselves whether it is wise to embark on such a project at a time of determined efforts to sever our dependency on fossil fuels and to aim ultimately for a co2-free society.
− i welcome the suggestion of an eu policy for the high north, but any such policy must be conscious of the need to protect the fragile environment of the arctic and underline the importance of overall stability and peace in the region.
it should stress that the eu should pursue policies that ensure that measures to address environmental concerns take into account the interests of the inhabitants of the arctic region, including its indigenous peoples, in protecting and developing the region.
it should also stress the similarity in approach, analysis and priorities between the commission communication and policy documents in the arctic states and the need to engage in policies that respect the interest in sustainable management and use of the land-based and marine, non-renewable and renewable natural resources of the arctic region, which in turn provide important resources for europe and are a major source of income to the inhabitants of the region.
− i voted for this report, which stresses that the main objective pursued by the eu and the member states in the eu strategy for the black sea region should be to establish an area of peace, democracy, prosperity and stability, founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and providing for eu energy security, and considers that good governance, the rule of law, promotion of respect of human rights, migration management, energy, transport, the environment, and economic and social development should constitute priority actions.
mr president, this friday’s summit is supposed to be strategically focused on energy and innovation.
i also hope that the necessary discussions on energy infrastructure and cross-border cooperation – the supply side of energy – will not distract from discussion about the demand side of energy, which is equally important.
the 20% 2020 energy efficiency target is a very long way off track.
otherwise we will merely waste a great deal of this energy supply that we are so expensively putting in place.
well, when we have dismissed climate, something in the water, habitual diet and nappy training in a cold climate, whatever else could remain?
what a waste and what hypocrisy to bang on about women’s rights in africa when thousands of jennies cannot even feed their kids properly.
weee is the fastest growing waste stream in europe and we simply have to have an adequate directive to deal with it.
if we want to see the targets increased for waste electrical goods, we have to have more of that kind of collection.
it should be the norm that every item of electrical waste is collected and most of it recycled, not the exception.
they lobbied one government after another and they said that printer cartridges can be regarded as consumables, not as waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
well, that is just to name a few, because all of these appliances and many more will undoubtedly rise in price as a result of this waste directive.
i therefore encourage everyone in this chamber to show sympathy with the hardworking taxpayers and with small-to-medium-sized businesses and put this prospective law in the waste bin.
(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, mr nuttall tells us that the requirement to recycle electrical waste puts up the price of products.
why is he so against council taxpayers, ratepayers and local governments across europe, in his own country and elsewhere, who have to bear the burden of dealing with such waste, which he says the producer should not have to pay for?
we waste far too much of it, and we waste too much on useless bodies like the european police college.
− i welcome this report which introduces new targets to stop toxic chemicals from discarded electrical items seeping into the environment.
− electronic and electrical equipment is the fastest growing kind of waste.
therefore i voted in favour of the revision of this directive because i welcome the new target to collect and treat 85% of this waste by 2016.
in writing.
− i fully support the decision to update the waste electronic and electrical equipment (weee) directive.
the hazardous substances often produced by waste from electrical and electronic equipment can cause huge health and environment risks.
by ensuring that waste is recycled and reused, the directive will improve the environmental performance of producers and distributors.
new targets for recycling, reusing and collecting waste include an 85% collection rate for member states.
i am certain that approving the amendments to this directive has the potential to produce health and environmental benefits and will contribute to the objectives of the eu’s resource efficiency agenda.
− i welcome this resolution, which highlights not just the environmental consequences but the importance of tackling corruption.
− mr president, i am delighted to be able to open our debate today on my report about emissions from light commercial vehicles (lcvs).
before i get to the detail of the text, please allow me to express a few thanks: first of all to the shadow rapporteurs from all of the political groups; secondly to the rapporteurs and members of the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on industry, research and energy for their opinions; and thirdly to the commissioner and her team – we have had a number of very constructive meetings about this.
because of this, it has been my belief throughout the process that it is crucial to have an ambitious but realistic long-term target and an appropriate short-term target that takes into account both the needs of industry product cycles and the need for environmental improvement.
unlike passenger cars, there is less scope to modify either their shape or their weight in a bid to reduce emissions.
given the higher costs of reducing co2 in lcvs compared to cars and the longer development and production cycles needed, my personal belief is that this provides a good balance between ensuring improved environmental standards on the one hand and giving a realistic and achievable target for the lcv manufacturing sector on the other.
it balances the need for improved environmental standards with realistic and achievable targets that will not prejudice manufacturing industry nor pose a risk to jobs in the union.
however, in this case, a first-reading agreement provides clarity and certainty to a sector that is still suffering in the wake of the global economic crisis, whilst also setting the bar for the tough but fair environmental standards that we all wish to see.
the gentleman from the socialists said that this is a good day for climate change policy in the eu.
mr president, as i hear discussions on ways to screw more money out of the little people in the name of climate change, i am struck by two things.
the first is how no one talks about global warming anymore.
the second is the car park beneath us – porches, mercedes, bmws, suvs, a showroom of gas-guzzling luxury from the people who tut-tut in disapproval at many white vans and plot to make working lives even harder with speed limiters and financial penalties, all for a dogma based on discredited statistics pedalled by a clique of bought and paid-for academics, funded and hyped by super-rich vested interests in the green industrial complex – al gore, prince charles, shell and goldman sachs – all of whom stand to steal a fortune from the taxes harvested through wind factory subsidies and carbon trading.
while i appreciate the efforts of some meps to blunt the worst excesses of this co2 hysteria, the plain truth is that anyone who even gives credence to the threadbare hoax of man-made global warming is a collaborator with the deadliest scam in history.
no, it is not, particularly as it is diverting attention from the real crisis – not that we are releasing carbon dioxide from fossil fuels, but that we are beginning to run low on the oil which powers our civilisation.
every day wasted talking about limiting emissions of nature’s most important fertiliser is a day lost in the struggle to sustain more and more people on less and less energy.
just as it was two years in copenhagen, when the climate change conference was there, it was the coldest at the climate change conference in cancun that it had been for decades.
thirdly, your arguments would be more effective if the climate change computer models had foreseen this a couple of years ago.
finally, as for the statistics showing a global warming trend, the key factor everyone is ignoring here is that 65% of the world’s weather stations are within 10 metres of an artificial heat source.
that is what has skewed the statistics, which are fundamentally bogus because people, boosted by the united nations, set about finding man-made global warming in order to impose the solutions they wanted.
the opportunities to reduce emissions in passenger cars are much greater in terms of lightweighting and changing the fuel mix.
it produces the best balance, first of all in favour of costs for businesses, but also in terms of environmental improvement.
whatever view you take of climate change, fuel efficiency – using precious resources more efficiently – has to be a good thing.
madam president, we have just voted on a report called ‘emissions performance standards for light commercial vehicles’.
let me translate: light commercial vehicles are of course vans, and performance standards mean fuel emissions which depend on fuel burnt.
we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
− i have supported this report which is part of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles.
by helping manufacturers to develop green technology we can benefit companies and also create jobs whilst helping to tackle the environmental problems that we are facing.
− i voted in favour of this report today as it signals another step in the right direction in the fight against climate change.
sustainable state pensions need sustainable public finances, but this parliament’s report is clear: there cannot be a harmonised eu retirement age or minimum income level.
question 20 by laima liucija andrikiene (h-000053/11) subject: protection of investments in the context of eu-russia negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement does the commission raise issues relating to investment protection, especially in the energy sector, in its negotiations with the russian federation on the new partnership and cooperation agreement?
drawing on a number of cases when european energy companies were forced out of the russian market without the possibility to seek impartial and fair local judicial protection, does the commission intend to include an investor-to-state dispute settlement mechanism in the new partnership agreement or additional economic agreements with the russian federation?
what is the position of the commission with regard to the energy charter treaty (ect)?
or will similar provisions relating to the protection of investments in the energy sector be included in the new partnership agreement?
question 23 by georgios papanikolaou (h-000015/11) subject: uneven environment for growth and development in member states one of the key priorities of 'europe 2020' strategy is to support entrepreneurship through policies aimed at promoting growth and improving the business climate, in particular for smes.
nevertheless, among member states there is a very uneven business environment since, in many of them, setting up a new business involves a lot of red tape and high costs: this discourages entrepreneurship.
there is no way albania can even begin to enact the reforms necessary to regain the eu’s confidence in the current political environment of instability.
mr president, it is quite clear that across the political spectrum we all want adequate, sustainable and safe european pension systems.
we talk about sustainable pensions, yet at the same time we bring about policies in this place such as the alternative investment fund managers directive, which will reduce the returns on savings and investments for tomorrow’s pensioners.
we voted to remove from paragraph 8 the inclusion of private debt in the sustainability assessment of public finances, as we feel that current market conditions would not be supported by this kind of assessment.
− i can support the overall objectives of this report as its fundamental concerns are to create a sustainable approach to pension provision.
the regulatory exercise which will come about from the green paper will, i believe, bring supervisors up to speed with the necessary consistency to maintain a safe and sustainable pension system.
− i voted in favour of this report urging member states to ensure pensions are sustainable in light of the challenges of aging societies and the spending pressures being faced across the eu.
the inclusion of private debt in any assessment of sustainability of public finances should not be included in this report, as current market conditions would not support this kind of assessment.
our current agricultural production model has been based on cheap energy, an abundance of land and plentiful supplies of water.
a rising population to 9 billion, growing demand from developing countries and the impact of climate change.
as professor john beddington, the uk’s chief scientific officer, recently predicted, unless we take action we face a perfect storm of scarce energy supplies, scarcity of water and food shortages.
europe needs to take the lead and the reform of the common agricultural policy gives us the opportunity to map out a sustainable food production system that can meet that huge demand in world food supplies that is going to be needed in the future.
shelter for ordinary people can be constructed through a strong common agricultural policy which ensures high-quality food at reasonable prices without negative impacts on the environment.
it is charging farmers a global warming levy on their electricity bills, whilst those same farmers have lost thousands of tons of sugar beet and potatoes in the ground due to very cold weather.
madam president, the main reasons for food inflation have been rising global commodity prices, soaring energy prices and volatility within the marketplace, and there is no doubt that the consumer is suffering.
what would we be paying for food in that financial climate?
now, the united nations fao has warned that rising energy costs, growing world population, greater wealth and climate change are about to present huge challenges to the world food system and to the cost of food.
first, the rising cost of food and energy hits the very poorest families hardest.
there are a myriad of contributory factors – fewer smallholdings, deforestation, desertification, lack of access to water and climate change.
it guarantees wto-plus disciplines in the case of, for example, geographical indicators, government procurement, greater transparency of state aid and strong enforcement of intellectual property rights, and contains an all-important chapter on sustainable development.
− i voted for the kalfin report on the new external mandate of the european investment bank (eib), providing for an increase in its budget from eur 27.8 billion to eur 29.567 billion until the end of 2013 and expanding its fields of competence to climate change action and the advancement of development goals for countries outside the eu.
the agreement includes important social, labour and environmental standards, and i hope the implementation of these will be closely monitored.
− i welcome this resolution which: points out that, from an ecological point of view, central and south-eastern europe is one of the richest but at the same time one of the most vulnerable areas of europe, characterised by an ecosystem of high ecological complexity and great value, therefore requiring a high level of protection; welcomes the aim of the european strategy for the danube region to create a liveable, sustainable and at the same time developed, prosperous danube region by managing environmental risks, such as floods and industrial pollution, preserving the quality and quantity of water reserves and ensuring their sustainable use, and preserving biodiversity, landscapes and the quality of air and soils; stresses that protecting the environment in the danube basin is an important aspect which should stimulate responsible agricultural and rural development of the region; calls for improvements to the ecological status of the danube, and for measures to reduce pollution and to prevent further releases of oil and other toxic and harmful substances; stresses that a good ecological status of the danube is a prerequisite for all human activity along the river and recommends that the environmental targets should be considered in particular
in writing.
− i voted for the resolution, which welcomes the world bank's energy strategy and recalls that it should specifically address how access to energy can help lift people out of poverty, while facilitating the shift to an environmentally sustainable energy development path; urges the world bank to pursue an approach to private-sector development that delivers maximum benefit to the poor while tackling climate change; and underlines that environmental and social factors, at both national and local community levels, must be taken into account in a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy options.
− i voted for this resolution, which underlines that the europe 2020 actions are of crucial importance to the future prospects of all european citizens, delivering sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth, and social progress; fears that the europe 2020 strategy will not be able to deliver on its promises due to its weak governance structure, and strongly urges the council, therefore, to strengthen the community method; reiterates the importance of integrating the eu 2020 goals into the economic governance framework and calls for the european semester to be part of the legislative governance package, while including national parliaments and social partners at an early stage in order to foster democratic accountability, ownership and legitimacy; stresses that the achievement of europe 2020 is essential and not optional.
a reformed cap must be in line both with global food security and development policy objectives, abolishing once and for all export refunds, that undermine the ability of developing countries to build up their own agricultural production, limiting market intervention mechanisms, which also serve to distort the market and promoting sustainable agricultural production to help both the agricultural sector mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the eu's natural resource base and food production capacity.
promotion of sustainable agricultural production is necessary in order to help the agricultural sector both mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the eu’s natural resource base and food production capacity.
it is inevitable that in a climate of such bigotry the lives of gay rights activists would be endangered, and so it has sadly proved to be the case with david kato.
this will help make our fishing more sustainable.
in paragraph 8 there is a focus on interconnectors for marine energy.
we have a massive renewable energy potential in the atlantic region.
coming from scotland, we have a vast contribution to make towards our climate-change and our regional development objectives.
in paragraphs 9 to 11, the importance of marine transport could also have hugely important economic, as well as environmental, output.
no attempt is being made to tackle the outrageous waste caused by the three seats of this parliament.
if only we could learn the rule of law, and if only we could apply property rights to fisheries policies, we would have sustainable fisheries policy not just for the common fisheries policy of the eu but globally, and we would have no need for these agreements.
no one has ownership and therefore no one has an incentive to treat fisheries as a renewable resource.
if this is what we have come up with – the ecological calamity, the poverty, the inflationary consequences of higher food prices – what are we thinking of if we want to give these same institutions additional powers?
in this vote, meps have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a robin hood tax – a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally.
in this vote, labour euro mps have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a robin hood tax – a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally.
a tiny tax on financial transactions will be able to be put to use to fight poverty in the uk and across the world and mitigate the effects of climate change.
eu farmers are required to meet stringent environmental and animal welfare standards, for which they are in part compensated through the subsidy system.
the eu should actively seek to export its strong animal welfare and environmental standards around the world, notably through more open international markets, rather than focusing on defensive, protectionist solutions.
my view is that encouraging domestic protein crop production needs to be done in line with a reformed cap which sees the eu moving towards sustainable farming and greater market orientation and, importantly, moving away from trade-distorting subsidies.
finally, on interest rates there is a balance that has to be struck between sustainability and moral hazard.
part one
question 16 by silvana koch-mehrin (h-000084/11) subject: energy-saving light bulbs is the commission aware of the study by the german federal environment agency, according to which energy-saving light bulbs pose a risk of causing poisoning, because of the mercury contained in them, if they break in the domestic environment?
so the linkage between innovation skills and sustainability is evident.
if there is one lesson in this crisis that we have to learn above all others, it is that western civilisations must not be dependent on others for their vital energy supplies.
and on interest rates, a balance has to be struck between sustainability and moral hazard, but the end-of-the-day position cannot be that member states extract rent greatly in excess of costs.
we talk about global warming and yet we emit thousands of tonnes of greenhouse gases as fleets of lorries transport the necessary documentation back and forth.
either way, let us cut out the waste and let us, in this time of austerity, try and return some savings to our hard-pressed taxpayers.
you currently have two factories, but by having only one factory you could increase productivity while reducing costs by £150 million and protecting the environment.
we waste £150 million each year by having 11 sessions here in strasbourg.
in a house that obsesses with green policy, some choose to needlessly pump 20 000 tonnes of carbon monoxide into the environment.
− i voted for amendment 1, which deletes the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2012. i see this as a small step in cutting the waste involved in travelling from brussels to strasbourg.
the vote on the changing the calendar to allow two of these strasbourg sessions to take place within the same week reflects our desire as meps to cut costs and co2 emissions.
travelling to strasbourg is expensive and the increased travel causes extra co2 emissions.
i therefore support this report, which will enable us to hold the required 12 plenary sessions in 11 weeks, thus cutting the cost and environmental impact of our work.
by stopping the practice of travelling to strasbourg twice in one month the parliament can set an example in reducing its co2 emissions and saving public money.
− i agree with this report that an eu strategy to promote strong and skilled human resources with a strong creative potential and active involvement in innovation and development, new and innovative technologies/processes/solutions which generate added value, r&d geared to the needs of sustainable development, an efficient supply chain for the production of high-quality goods and services, more efficiently organised production and management systems, overall greater resources efficiency that leads to reduced carbon footprint, cost-efficient and sustainable modes of transport, smart and efficient logistics and high-quality infrastructure, a consolidated and fully operational single internal market and a level playing field in trade relations with third countries, is the only means of increasing the sustainability and competitiveness of european industry and thus maintaining its global leadership.
some of the most useful recommendations in the report include the need for an innovation chain which links industry-related research to innovation and application of the technology, and an increased emphasis on resource efficiency and sustainability which ties in with the aims of the europe 2020 strategy.
as an example, think ‘climate’: keeping a house warm near the arctic circle needs much more money than in mediterranean countries.
mr president, my concern about the nuclear industry has been overshadowed by my concern about climate change and i now believe that nuclear has a role to play in helping us fight global warming.
it is about implementing measures for the fuel quality directive and setting baseline or default values for greenhouse gas emissions for transport fuels.
the real, very serious issue is: how serious are we in the european union about tackling emissions from transport?
we know that around 20% of greenhouse gas emissions come from transport.
we know that figure is rising, unlike in the housing and energy sectors, where the figure is falling.
cleaning up our transport fuels is a key part of the fight against climate change and that is why the fuel quality directive is so important.
that greenhouse gas emissions from canadian tar sands are on average 107.3g of co2 per megajoule, compared with 87.1g for conventional fuels.
we often hear that the eu is leading the way on climate change, but california has already put in place a low-carbon fuel standard which assesses tar sands as high-carbon.
you are known for your commitment to tackling climate change and are respected for it in this house.
we want to work with you to deliver your low-carbon roadmap to actually cut emissions from transport by 60% as you announced last week, so i hope that tonight you are going to come here with some good news for us and tell us that in the next few weeks we will have that implementing standard and we will have a higher value for tar sands and oil shale.
first of all we were told it was not enough that there were a dozen studies that all showed that tar sands had higher greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil.
the fact that these alternative sources of oil are attracting investment interest across the globe is precisely why we must insist on a separate greenhouse gas value for them.
otherwise, as tar sands creep up as an increasingly large part of the energy mix, we will find ourselves in the situation where we are complying with the fuel quality directive’s 6% reduction target on paper, but in real life we are producing fuel with even higher emissions than today.
i acknowledge that negotiators have made huge progress in the areas of security, competition, market access and environmental cooperation.
this report is therefore not intended to tackle the substance of the regulation and it does not comment on whether gsp+ beneficiaries do in fact continue to qualify for these trade preferences on the basis of good governance, sustainable development and ratification and implementation of un conventions in the field of social, environmental and human rights.
parliament also pushed for the regulation to cover areas of data collection which until now have not been thought of as relevant for tourism statistics but which we felt needed to be included as part of the recognition of tourism’s important social, economic and environmental impact.
the final agreement also sees the inclusion of pilot studies that show the effect of tourism on the environment – an interesting avenue to pursue, given the need for a sustainable tourism approach.
at a time when smes are struggling to survive an already dire economic climate, this is only helping to depress a difficult situation.
− i supported this report, which highlights the importance of gender equality in promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development.
the eu has drawn up legislation and strategies to promote the sustainable use of the sea, the conservation of maritime eco-systems and the protection of the resources essential for maritime activities of a social and economic nature.
what progress is being made by eu initiatives in this area, for example with regard to pollution in the mediterranean?
what instruments does it have at its disposal to facilitate the adaptation of the mediterranean area to climate change and avert the serious risks arising from flooding, coastal erosion and further land deterioration?
how do mediterranean energy transport policies fit into the maritime strategy?
question 26 by bernd posselt (h-000107/11) subject: air pollution in german cities how does the commission assess the state of air pollution in german cities, for instance in munich, and what measures does it propose?
question 28 by nikolaos chountis (h-000122/11) subject: waste management in greece in its answer of 9 august 2010 to written question e-3732/2010 answer of 9.8.2010 the commission said that it 'considers landfill disposal to be the least and last desirable manner for managing and treating waste'.
according to the press, environmental organisations, political parties and local authorities, the government's persistence in seeking to impose this technology and methods for collecting and managing waste are connected with certain corporate interests, something that could result in a fresh political and economic scandal.
can the commission answer the following questions: independently of the choices made by each country, does it consider it preferable from an ecological and environmental point of view to use the option proposed by environmental organisations (wwf, greenpeace, sos mediterranean, etc.)
that waste should be sorted by households at source rather than recycled at waste plants?
we oppose the increases in the budget – which seems to me an extraordinary allocation of resources in the present economic climate – and i oppose my compatriot and my friend andrew duff’s idea that these transnational parties should be allowed to spend effectively eu money in national referendum campaigns.
the history of this important project, referred to by a number of you, had its seeds first of all in professor monti’s work, for which i pay him tribute, and in a desire by my committee – and i want to thank all the coordinators particularly for the support and energy they put behind this – to say that parliament needed a response to this as well.
another waste of money: how many billions is this house of history going to cost, to sell propaganda and tell how the european union ‘saved the world’?
under the agreements with african and pacific countries, the eu’s financial contribution is to a large extent expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources.
the partnership agreements therefore amount to a commitment to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels might be operating, based on a thorough assessment of the resources available, making sure that the fishing opportunities to be used have been vouched for by credible scientific opinions and ruling out any risk of depleting local stocks.
the uk is keen to participate actively and positively in discussions on tourism at eu level, supporting fully the need to improve the competitiveness of the european tourism industry and its capacity for sustainable growth.
until now, investment agreements were so focused on investor protection that companies could sometimes operate in developing countries without respect for environmental or social considerations.
i call for root and branch reform of the dispute settlement mechanism, which so far enabled private companies to take legal action against countries and sometimes attack their social and environmental law.
they are a waste of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money.
the priorities of the rapporteur are arranged in four groups, aiming at transforming the single market in an innovative, business-friendly environment, based on a digital economy and where free movement of services is effective.
only sustainable growth can guarantee the creation of sustainable jobs
in writing.
i welcome the resolution calling for an increased focus on the mobility of citizens and i believe it is also essential that the re-launch of the single market focuses on the needs of smes in order to provide an environment that will create new, innovative businesses across the eu, and especially in wales.
commissioner, as you say, member states have the right to decide their energy mix, but you have the responsibility for nuclear safety.
what will you be proposing to make sure that governments and investors focus instead, now, on how to get a greater commitment to energy efficiency and renewables?
mr president, the three key areas – the vulnerability of ldcs, sustainable development and the promotion of economic growth – are all welcome.
what kind of good management – sustainable management of fisheries – do you call that?
they always pride themselves on having a sustainable fishery and they laugh at the common fisheries policy that we employ.
mr president, the eib is providing up to eur 1 billion for the construction of wind turbines and other renewable energy projects in the uk.
while this fits neatly within the strategy to fight climate change, i am alarmed that the current criteria governing eib funding lack transparency and accountability when it comes to the examination and due diligence of these projects.
renewable energy companies in the uk claim that their turbines have a load factor of 30%.
they are not economically viable and they will double or treble electricity prices for consumers while failing to cut co2 emissions.
this is an unfolding financial scandal, and the eib should stop funding wind energy.
madam president, i would like to include, after ‘climate change risk assessment’, the words ‘which does not harm trade’.
− although this is a sensitive period of time just after the enormous problems with nuclear safety in japan, nuclear energy remains a major contributor to energy supply cross the eu and globally.
i could not support ‘aggressive’ amendments which could have damaged the energy supply policy of a ‘mixed’ approach leading to reduced co2 emissions and the eventual growth in renewables.
− i voted against the resolution in the final vote as i believe we need to debate this issue in the context of the overall eu energy strategy not in the context of the japanese nuclear tragedy.
nuclear power is a vital source of energy across europe, with some member states getting as much as 75% of their electricity from nuclear power, and a review of the safety of nuclear power plants should be a priority, including stress tests on existing plants.
we need a grown-up debate on these issues to ensure that there is a balanced mix of renewable and other low-carbon sources of energy to ensure that the lights stay on across europe.
i believe that ldc-iv should focus on policy coherence for development as an important factor for policy shift, at national and international level and call, therefore, for policy-making in all areas – such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance – to support the development needs of ldcs in order to fight poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods.
this outrageous behaviour exposes the lie that iceland is at the forefront of sustainable fisheries management.
but what this debate does reveal is that, while everyone says we should have sustainable fishing policies, in practice, when it comes down to it, some people do not understand the word ‘sustainability’.
the commissioner mentioned, quite rightly, sustainable development.
the japanese prime minister has called for an ‘open japan’ policy, and that is partly because he recognises that japanese industry is stultifying in its present environment.
that is a direct quote from paragraph 2. i think that is a premature support when we do not have impact assessments on the environmental and social effects of an fta.
the next item is the report by kriton arsenis, on behalf of committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission green paper on forest protection and information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change (2010/2106(ini)) (a7-0113/2011).
− i voted to give the european environment agency discharge on its budget.
− i welcome this agreement on the protection and sustainable development of prespa park.
the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
− i welcome this agreement, the objective of which is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
− i voted to give discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in our energy-scarce, post-peak oil world, the alternative to reactors is mass starvation.
question 17 by seán kelly (h-000158/11) subject: the cap and the multi-annual financial framework beyond 2013 the need for an adequately-financed cap, which delivers public goods, such as a secure and sustainable food supply for the eu, which ensures a stable food price regime both at the farm gate and on the shop shelves and which underpins a vibrant rural economy, is as important now as ever, especially in the light of the recent rise in energy prices and instability in certain regions of the globe.
question 19 by spyros danellis (h-000185/11) subject: innovation and measures to combat climate change in order to achieve its ambitious climate objectives, the eu needs new innovative technologies.
adjustment to climate change could thus become an instrument for growth, generating hundreds of thousands of jobs as well as exports of advanced technology.
would the commission consider the introduction of fresh incentives, such as an annual climate innovation award?
question 26 by jim higgins (h-000157/11) subject: climate change and the role of farmers does the commission have a view on what importance should be given to the role of farmers, in terms of carbon sinks, forests and other measures, when fighting one of the biggest challenges our environment faces today?
how does the commission intend to support farmers in their battle against climate change?
question 27 by justas vincas paleckis (h-000162/11) subject: gender equality in the fight against climate change according to the 2011 global climate risk index there are six member states among the 35 countries in the world which are most at risk.
in terms of climate change, women comprise the most vulnerable group, as they form the majority of the poorest populations.
although gender equality is recognised as a precondition for the achievement of sustainable development and the millennium development goals, climate change policy does not, in the view of the experts, pay sufficient attention to this.
there is clearly no procedure for involving women in the fight against climate change.
what action does the commission plan to take in order to include the subject of gender equality in european climate change policy?
question 28 by zbigniew ziobro (h-000164/11) subject: costs of cutting co2 in the european union the european union is planning to cut co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this ambitious target cannot be attained without affecting the economies of the member states.
firms are already moving their production out of the eu as they are unable to afford the cost of european climate policy.
has the commission carried out any simulations to show how cutting co2 emissions will affect the economies of the eu member states?
what would be the costs to the member states’ economies of a target to cut emissions by 10 and 15% by 2020?
every year tonnes of toxic waste is shipped from the eu to developing countries against european environmental law, smuggled through ports with very weak controls.
almost three quarters of electric waste in the eu is unaccounted for and only one third of electronic waste is treated according to eu legislation.
in the uk the average briton throws away four pieces of electronic waste every year.
the export of controlled waste from the eu for disposal is prohibited under current legislations, yet annually illegal shipments from the eu are thought to average about 22 000 tonnes.
this waste contains lead, cadmium, barium, mercury, brominated flame retardants and other chemicals and plastics that become hazardous when burned.
we cannot ignore the environmental and health impacts of this scandal which affects the most vulnerable.
i thank the commissioner for the answers and the responses, but we need to know the specifics of how he is going to close this loophole in the waste shipment regulation.
does the commission have any plans to address the tonnes of eu waste already dumped in african countries?
does the waste shipment regulation need to be revised or is it just a matter of enforcement?
this improved network will also contribute to making europe's digital economy more competitive, in the hope of developing an innovative and creative environment that can foster future advances in digital technology.
i can assure you that the commission services and i will pursue this challenge with all determination and energy, and i also assure you, especially mr staes, that i do not put off decisions that need to be taken.
micro-businesses really need to be treated like family units and, in particular, the eu and its member states need to work together to look at how small businesses can be given upfront support for energy efficiency improvements.
just before easter, a number of meps from the committee on industry, research and energy went to california to see how investment works in silicon valley.
on the other hand, the eu combines this positive sentiment with plenty of legislation on employment protection and environmental requirements: legislation which is well-intentioned but all of which bears most heavily on smes, increasing the administrative burden on small business when we should be reducing it.
it is because politicians consistently spend more money than they raise in taxation – more money than they can possibly raise in taxation –, most of which, in point of fact, they actually waste.
unfortunately, in the current economic climate with many member states adopting austerity measures and budget reductions necessary to reduce deficits, these areas can often appear neglected and i wish this were not the case.
it goes without saying that, the more we educate our young people across europe, the more the future begins to look brighter in a challenging global environment.
our eu budget should be used productively to develop the huge amount of creative energy around us into true wealth-creating businesses, providing sustainable jobs and a prosperous and rich future for our people in wales and beyond.
i therefore strongly support what the commissioner has said, that member states should now continue to invest in education and should not be using the economic climate to make cuts, because making cuts in education would be the worse possible thing to do.
if you look at the countries that have pursued successful conservation policies in fisheries – whether it is the falkland islands, iceland, norway, new zealand – all of them have done so on the basis of giving skippers a sense of ownership so that they have an incentive to treat fisheries as a renewable resource.
hence the ecological calamity which has befallen stocks in the north sea.
youth on the move (yom) is one of seven flagship initiatives contained in the commission’s europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
− i voted for this report, and in doing so urge the commission to ensure that fishing activities that fall under the fisheries partnership agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as fishing activities in eu waters.
the report, moreover, calls on mauritanian authorities and the commission to ensure that strict sustainability criteria are respected by all vessels exercising fishing activities in mauritanian waters (either from the eu, mauritania or third countries).
the resolution also outlines the energy savings potential that smes have – currently only 24% of smes are engaged in actions to reduce their environmental impact-energy efficiency; if smes applied cost-effective energy efficiency measures, they could reduce their energy bills and increase reinvestment.
– mr president, a regulation on the european environmental economic accounts sounds very boring but, in my experience, that makes it the most dangerous kind of eu legislation, because you think that the taxpayer and the media will not bother to read it.
this is about – and i quote – ‘air emissions and environmental taxes’, just as the last speaker said.
– madam president, in today’s uncertain economic climate it is more important than ever that the global institutions set up to ensure financial and economic stability, which many countries around the world are dependent upon, are not used to make symbolic political statements.
to give just one example, the ontario green energy act would be illegal under ceta.
that act promotes the production and feeding of renewable energies and directs investments into local economies.
indeed we should all welcome this enhancement and diversification of global energy.
madam president, it is the intention of the commission to set default values for the use of tar sands – not just from canada, but from any source, including venezuela, for example – for the purpose of reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels, as required by the fuel quality directive.
i have met the alberta energy minister, who has been doing the rounds, as i am sure others have too.
canada is making a great deal of money out of exploiting its tar sands but it also made commitments under the kyoto protocol to reduce its co2 emissions, and it has reneged on those commitments because of the financial benefits it is getting from tar sands.
tonight this gives us a chance to influence the commission in advance of its csr communication by asking it firstly to maintain the open definition of csr latterly adopted by it in the multi-stakeholder forum; to return to the principle of convergence in private and voluntary csr initiatives, which was its former policy; to make concrete proposals for implementing global csr standards, specifically the updated oecd guidelines on multinational enterprises and the new ruggie framework on business and human rights; to commit to the principle of integrated financial, environmental, social and human rights reporting by business – indeed paving the way towards the possibility of future legislation in this area; and to advance the responsibility of european businesses in their global supply chain, responding to the governance gaps identified in the commission’s own recent edinburgh study.
− i voted for this report which is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the eu.
− i voted for this report which considers that comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers, freight operators and airlines, by means both of market access and of regulatory convergence to promote fair competition, including with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards providing certain standards and conditions are met.
however, the westminster government is looking into rolling out hgv charges in accordance with european law by 2015. the commission, however, has reserved the right to make the carbon charge obligatory by 2013. i do not wish to see uk citizens in any way contributing to any form of eu tax.
− i voted for this report revising ‘eurovignette’ road haulage tax rules, which will make it possible for member states to charge hauliers for air and noise pollution costs, in addition to motorway tolls.
this directive will ensure that revenue from these charges is used to improve the performance of transport systems and cut pollution.
the only way that we can make progress in fighting climate change is responsible reports such as this one which hold those accountable who cause the most pollution and which is why i was able to support it.
environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making data available on the environmental impact of economic activities.
such information could be extremely valuable for the purposes of environmental policy-making.
there is therefore no doubt that it needs to be made sustainable.
question 19 by hans-peter martin (h-000208/11) subject: reallocation of financial resources in the regional and cohesion funds is the commission prepared to reallocate at least 10% of the eur 51 billion currently available each year in the regional and cohesion funds to fast-start funding for new electricity networks for renewable energy?
we agree: investment in research and development, in trans-european networks for transport, energy and telecommunications should be increased.
in the special committee on policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 we rightly talked about priorities, but then we never acted on it.
we also need to invest in our infrastructure in the european union – infrastructure like transport, energy and improving broadband in many rural areas – and our rural areas themselves should not be forgotten.
the aim is to enable the eu to respond to the great societal challenges that concern all member states and to which they cannot respond alone (ageing population and health, energy, water and food supplies, sustainable development, climate change, and so on), as well as to develop the knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness.
however, there are some concerns which the commission needs to take in to account: the environmental impact of extracting oil from tar sands and the health of workers mining asbestos are just two issues which need to be looked at carefully.
the europe 2020 strategy lists the key factors for smart growth (fostering knowledge, innovation and education, and promoting the digital society), sustainable growth (more resource-efficient production going hand in hand with enhanced competitiveness), and inclusive growth (increasing the employment rate, training, and eradicating poverty).
− i welcome this report which stresses that gdp is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy-makers throughout the world; emphasises that gdp is a measure of production and does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general; underlines furthermore that it can be misleading in the sense that remedial measures following certain incidents such as accidents and natural disasters are treated as a benefit instead of a cost; notes that besides measuring economic development and productivity there are other indicators that influence and explain the living standards in a country and that have not been quantified until now although relevant indicators exist; stresses the need to develop additional indicators for measuring the full impact of economic activity.
− i support this report, which recommends several concrete actions including the creation of an environmental index, more timely publication of environmental and social data, more accurate reporting on social disparities and extending the system of national accounts to include environmental and social issues.
in this current difficult financial climate, i have to oppose this increase in spending, especially considering that the programme is already 60% over budget.
while believing that good value can be obtained when 27 member states pool their resources, i could not vote for a 5% increase in the eu budget beyond 2013 when we have not thoroughly examined existing expenditure with a view to eliminating waste and duplication.
when such tough economic decisions are being made at home, (...) it is unacceptable for the eu to take no action to cut costs and eliminate waste.
a structured civil society dialogue would help; common action to fight climate change would help to build trust.
however, i also believe that nuclear power should be part of our future energy mix.
it is low-carbon and it can provide a secure supply.
for example, it will mean that prosperous european countries will not have to import energy from less prosperous countries, with all the problems that that can bring.
i believe that the report should perhaps have gone a little further in responding to that question by backing the idea of a more targeted direct payment, containing a major incentive to develop a more sustainable and competitive model of agriculture, and giving the possibility of a targeting of payments at lfa areas – the so-called greening of the direct payments, which i believe the commissioner is very much favour of.
i hope the last three winters will have convinced all of you that there is no threat to us from global warming.
unless we have paragraph 1, all of this is pointless – and paragraph 1, where we call for a strong and sustainable cap with a budget commensurate with the ambitious objectives, will be pointless too.
food security, food safety, biodiversity, climate change, new technologies and creating a viable, competitive market-led industry have to be the focus.
yes, we have to take care of the environment – i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we know that – but we are in real danger here of creating a report with a rhetoric moving into things like ‘greening pillar one’; we are talking about moving away from the real focus, which is efficiency.
the idea of making direct payments conditional upon cross-compliance with environmental protection and landscape management is potentially beneficial, but only as long as they are not tied to the semi-religious precepts of climate change and social diversity nonsense.
we can see the vital need to improve competitiveness and rebuild public finances in a sustainable manner.
from the realisation that the stability fund facilities had to be larger, to recognising the fact that punitive interest rates do not give sustainability and the chance to return to the markets, this house has not been afraid to lead and the council has followed.
new rules need to ensure it is made stronger and more sustainable.
we believe that the highest safety standards for the use of nuclear energy for whatever purpose and the highest standards for disposal are both appropriate and appropriate at european level.
i thank mrs jordan cizelj for her comprehensive report, the work of the last few weeks, and also her shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy and the other committees.
secondly, when we consider the question of the recoverability and reversibility of the stored fuel and waste, the principle is that each storage site should be suitable and safe for permanent, final storage, both geologically and technically, as well as in terms of what is happening to construction.
in these weeks, evidence is mounting that in the foreseeable future - the next decade - a next or next generation of science, waste can be better managed in recycling or storage than we know today.
thirdly, we expressly support the rapporteur's view of the importance of adequate funding for national waste disposal programmes.
the last point is the question of exports: the principle of our proposal is that each member state, whether or not it has nuclear power stations, and how many of them it has, and how much waste it has to deal with in general - even without nuclear power stations, each member state has nuclear waste from large-scale medical equipment and industrial research - must take care of its own tasks and must always find bilateral agreements and solutions with other member states.
i can say from my own country that in the 1970s and 1980s a great deal of special industrial waste was exported from germany to the former gdr and eastern europe, where it was stored in landfills for a fee, which were far from the state of the art and the best protection of the environment and people.
we also underlined the importance of providing information and genuine consultation with workers concerning the safety case and safety assessments, not only of sites dealing with spent fuel and radioactive waste, but also as regards how these should be transported, and the need for a rigorous and effective inspection regime with sanctions that are effective, dissuasive and proportionate.
we also took the view that there was no easy divide between civil and military waste, given that civilians may well handle military waste these days.
– madam president, nuclear waste is a problem we just have to deal with.
even if all nuclear reactors were shut down tomorrow, there would still be a legacy of waste from half a century of nuclear generation and from a variety of other activities.
since we cannot just wish it out of existence, we need to deal with nuclear waste in the most responsible way possible.
that means making sure that radioactive waste remains under eu control and scrutiny.
once nuclear waste is outside european borders, we cannot guarantee how it is managed.
the export of radioactive waste to third countries must be banned.
a particular problem with nuclear waste is the sheer timescale of the danger that it poses.
at the moment the geological storage of nuclear waste may very generally seem to be the least worst option, but advances in science could potentially turn that conclusion on its head.
madam president, the recent events in japan certainly reminded us of the potential problems associated with harnessing nuclear energy and disposing of spent fuel.
however, in a world challenged by energy shortages, we need to remain open-minded.
we must try to encourage all forms of energy production – from renewable, sustainable energies to investing in safe nuclear plants.
when dealing with nuclear energy, safety and the transparency of procedures are two important issues which need to be constantly attended to.
the answer is not necessarily to shut down plants, as germany is planning to do, but rather to ensure that we are following the strictest safety programmes when it comes to dealing with this form of energy and the waste it produces.
nuclear energy has great potential to serve europe, but we need to be realistic.
let us be proactive in making nuclear energy work for us now and in the future, and work with this report.
– when my own country, scotland, passed a climate change act in 2009 it called for a 42% emissions cut by 2020. these targets are ambitious but we consider them a vital part of our efforts against climate change.
investment in transport, our energy networks and broadband expansion, particularly in our regions, will all boost jobs and growth.
i voted against the overall package as i do not believe it is the right thing to do in the current financial climate.
this compromise package has removed a number of these threats and will hopefully lead to a better consumer environment across the eu.
whilst today’s vote could have gone much further, i welcome colleagues’ decision to reject the dumping of nuclear waste in third countries.
− i have voted on the jordan cizelj report in a way in which i believe was the most responsible regarding europe’s future energy concerns.
i am referring to the fact that roughly 15% of the eu’s current energy supply comes from nuclear energy.
this is huge chunk of our energy demand, a demand which is projected to increase in the coming decades.
it is therefore essential that this significant section of our energy supply should not be taken hostage to fear and panic in the wake of the fukushima incident.
i fear that these concerns have been exacerbated for political ends by certain factions here and elsewhere in europe and i wish to make a clear stance regarding our future energy mix that is free from fear and panic and approaches the subject of nuclear energy based on science and evidence.
the fact is that nuclear energy and nuclear research will be a part of future energy demand and that is why i have voted the way i did in order to ensure that the waste and spent fuel is dealt with in the appropriate way.
− it is important that we have a strong and sustainable cap and the ongoing work on its reform is one of the key issues before this parliament.
finally, we agreed that member states could use wider environmental grounds to introduce a ban provided – and this is very important – that they did not undermine the current eu-wide authorisation process.
the environmental grounds that they use for introducing a ban must be distinct.
we reject technology that will replace sustainable local family farming with short-sighted international agri-business.
they do not argue that this reduction, adopted unilaterally in europe, would have more than a negligible impact on global warming on their own predictions.
mr president, i am not convinced that the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is achievable.
issues of climate change and global warming are of great importance not just to europe, but to the whole planet and for future generations to come.
i think that bandwagon jumping, and therefore attention-seeking, by politicians eager to please the global warming alarmists, will be no more helpful than dubious pronouncements by the deniers, who may or may not be emissaries of oil-company money.
the fact that these regions are permanently disadvantaged by their insularity, remoteness from major markets, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products severely hinders their development and fully justifies the implementation of specially tailored measures.
agriculture must evolve, be more sustainable and find more efficient ways to use expensive inputs; this will involve embracing new technology.
meps have voted to allow member states, as well as distinct territories like scotland, to decide whether to prohibit gmo cultivation, including for environmental reasons, such as to protect biodiversity.
eu member states should have the flexibility to ban or restrict the cultivation of genetically modified crops and should be able to cite environmental motives for doing so.
europe should be ambitious in its emissions targets, just as my own country, scotland, is ambitious – but parliament has chosen to back-pedal.
− i voted against this resolution because amendments meant that it did not clearly call for a move from 20% greenhouse gas emission reductions to 30%.
− i voted in favour of the increase from a 20% reduction to a 30% reduction in emissions, as it is important for europe to lead the way and be more environmentally responsible.
− i voted for this report, which supports the issue of european bonds to provide funding for energy infrastructure projects.
− in voting in favour of the resolution on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, the european parliament has emphasised the integral role that smart and sustainable energy networks play in allowing europe to reach its energy targets.
i believe that the eu has an important role to play in energy infrastructure projects that are of european interest, and i support this resolution that proposes that projects must be approved in accordance with their ability to respond to europe’s energy needs.
in addition to this, the resolution that i supported highlights the importance of enhancing regional cooperation by promoting regional initiatives that focus on developing energy infrastructure projects that respond to the eu’s needs.
− on some of the issues raised in the commission’s green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development, parliament has an established position or is currently preparing reports.
madam president, i welcome the commitment to use this budget to create jobs, growth and competitiveness, and i am particularly pleased to see the plans to invest in the single market, research and development and the environment.
you could have looked to cut waste.
consumers will now be able to see when unsustainable palm oil is used in foods at the expense of precious rainforests and to put pressure on manufacturers to use oil from a sustainable source.
mr president, the eu world view is that it knows best about everything, from global warming scare stories to food labels.
let us have a europe where we sit down together, where we have a free trade agreement and where we agree minimum standards on work and on the environment.
there is plenty of waste; use your resources more wisely.
broadband is of vital importance if the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy are to be achieved, if and we are to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the eu’s objectives should include enabling all regions and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, and this report – along with its complementary initiatives – takes important steps to achieving this.
labels will have to spell out a food’s energy content as well as fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar, protein and salt levels, in a way that makes them easy for consumers to read.
yes, it is an expensive project but this commitment holds out a promise of energy supply absent of the problems of nuclear and fossil fuels.
food waste is a terrible thing, and i think we can do an awful lot to bring it under control.
an additional 25 meps, representing the whole of the eu, will also be expensive, both in money terms and in carbon dioxide consumed.
at a time when the eu is seeking to reduce its carbon footprint, do we really need another 25 pan-european meps travelling across the whole of their new huge constituency?
we believe that we should be basing wto reform around trade justice and sustainable development, which should be the watchwords as we develop a new trade body for the planet.
i followed this report as shadow rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and the debate there quite rightly centred around some very specific areas in the report.
landfill creates greenhouse gases, we all know that; that is why we are trying to avoid it.
− madam president, thank you to everyone who has contributed to this report, including colleagues from many committees and industry regulator and environmental organisations.
offshore is crucial to meeting europe’s energy needs and its energy security.
as well as oil, the north sea provides thousands of jobs in the fishing and tourism sectors – sectors which are heavily dependent upon a clean environment.
scotland’s oil industry remains a vital industry – not solely in terms of scottish jobs but in terms of european energy security too.
the proposal is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of law-making, and to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses
in writing.
− according to oecd estimates, each year an area of original forest covering the size of greece is lost, threatening irreplaceable biodiversity with extinction and increasing the risk of global warming.
the agreement promotes the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and promotes the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests.
these conventions are important tools for maintaining sustainable fisheries – and there is no reason why similar tools could not be applied to the waters and resources of europe's fishing nations.
to fill this gap, and given that there is fishing activity both in the eez and in the high seas, in 2006 the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch a process of international consultations on the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation, with the aim of cooperating to address the gap in the management and conservation of non-highly-migratory species and the protection of biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law.
partly this is because most of these projects are high risk due to their environmental, political, social and cultural impacts, and would not come to life without the support and financial backing of ecas.
as government-backed institutions, ecas should and could instead play an important role in promoting the transition to a low carbon economy in coherence with their national government climate commitments.
colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy have acknowledged this and produced a report which is more respectful of other countries as well as the environment.
however, the commission should also ensure that eu companies adhere to environmental and social standards in their work abroad so as to further cement good eu relations with resource-rich countries.
− in light of the increasing scarcity of many raw materials and the eu’s increasing dependence on imports of rm, in particular from china, the comission has identified 14 critical rms, which are essential to the future of european industry; especially important for the transformation to a low-carbon and sustainable economy as they are used in high-tech products such as catalysts, batteries or the construction of renewable energies.
this report calls for a coherent strategy, with a commission working group, to focus on increasing innovation on rm use, utilising our r&d strengths to discover more ways of recycling and increasing efficiencies in the use of rm, and to look at sustainable extraction of rm.
institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin.
this report comes too late to save the lives of the 11 workers killed on the transocean platform in the gulf of mexico in 2010, or undo all the environmental damage wrought by the disaster.
oil and gas exploration in european waters or elsewhere is not the only answer to solve europe's energy mix but it is vital to securing a diversified energy mix and thousands of british and european jobs.
in fact i believe this quota system will only serve to undermine the role of women in a business environment.
these measures will ensure we do not waste such a pool of talent as women can provide, especially at this time of economic difficulty.
domestically, we face generation-defining problems in the energy sector and managing the environment together with finding a successful growth model for the 21st century.
in terms of new forms of working, i am sure the commissioners would agree that workers see themselves not just as employees of the company with employment rights but also, increasingly, as stakeholders with an interest in the company’s impact on the locality in which they live, on their environment and on their human rights.
– madam president, startling leaps in technology and transportation mean the natural environment for a business has ballooned.
however, at the time, and indeed now, almost every car in use in europe used or uses in its air conditioning system a hydrofluorocarbon called hfc-134a, which has a global warming potential 1 400 times greater than carbon dioxide.
eventually, after years of argument, we eventually resolved that from 2011 all new models of car should be fitted with an air conditioning system which used a gas with a global warming potential no greater than 150 times co2.
this led to a confused situation in the industry and there have been all sorts of rows over the years, but eventually honeywell and dupont, two of the biggest chemical manufacturers, came up with an alternative air conditioning system using hfo-1234yf, which has a global warming potential of just four.
this week, the interest rate for italian bonds has again reached 5.75%, which is hardly sustainable for the third-largest bond market in the world.
− i believe that increasing integrity and transparency in wholesale energy markets should seek to foster open and fair competition that will benefit consumers.
energy prices need to be contained or lowered and not harmed by market manipulation, thus i fundamentally disagree with creating an eu regulation that serves only to promote the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which requires all eu energy traders to register.
this is merely another attempt by the eu to harmonise policy across the union and seize control of energy security regardless of the impact such legislation is likely to have.
− i welcome this report and the commission proposal and its sector-specific approach to focus on the energy sector, in order to prevent market abuse.
i especially welcome the recognition that, in today’s economic climate, it is vitally important that we identify any new eu laws imposed on member states that may result in driving up business costs.
− i voted against this report to show my disapproval of the european union’s action on hfcs under the montreal protocol as a prime example of a non-market-based approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions at cop-17 in durban.
in a time of austerity, new stricter rules on greenhouse gases, mainly used in refrigeration and air conditioning systems, will create extra expenditure to people already struggling with a higher cost of living.
in addition i would like to express opposition to creating a further burden for the car industry by pushing forward the idea of reducing bloc carbon emissions.
− i voted for this resolution which welcomes the european union’s commitment to support action on hfcs under the montreal protocol as a prime example of a non-market-based approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions at cop-17 in durban.
in the letter she states, and i quote: ‘despite the constraints of an environment which is so controlled by the government, the eu is developing practical actions to support the civil society and human rights defenders in syria and beyond’.
it is a counterproductive waste of eur 1 billion a year.
we need irrigation projects, sustainable agricultural development and a long-term plan.
the eu must respond to the humanitarian crisis, but it is also absolutely vital that we do all that we can to ensure that countries such as somalia and ethiopia – which is otherwise a good news story in terms of economics – have the necessary resources and ensure that the necessary future measures – such as irrigation projects – are in place to make them more resilient in future, particularly as regards the threats of climate change and drought.
in addition to this, this resolution calls for an increase in aid to be allocated for agricultural production as this provides an essential long-term investment in building a sustainable infrastructure.
we agree that funding for research helps us confront great challenges like health and ageing, and energy, food and water security, and we also agree that too often we have allowed bright ideas to be left in the lab or exploited elsewhere: so supporting innovation and development can help competitiveness and growth.
we have some misgivings in our group about the nature of the agreement, the dislocation of development in social and environmental protection, and some of the practical difficulties around identifying the sources of products.
mr president, climate change, pollution and co2 levels are a matter of constant debate in this chamber.
i hope other member states are taking similar measures to reverse water pollution and thus to safeguard wildlife and human health against contaminated water supplies.
whilst the eu can come up with goals and targets for our environment, it is vital that member states follow the uk example and take control of their own environmental projects.
however, i look forward with the great british sense of humour which is one thing nobody can take away from us in this place which gave us an energy policy, an employment policy, a fisheries policy, an agricultural policy that have been – as almost everything that this place has done has been – a complete and total disaster.
it can of course be a driver for growth, which in turn fuels prosperity and rising living standards, but trade is also influenced by, and can influence, human rights standards, labour standards, environmental standards, and they must be key components of our trade policy, not as an alternative to trade liberalisation but as a key component of it.
we need policy coherence between our trade policy, our development policy, our environmental, social and labour policies.
mr president, i understand that the commission is currently challenging canada at the wto over ontario province’s use of local content requirements for renewable energy sources.
the overall enlargement policy is giving us an opportunity, through a number of the chapters, not only chapter 30 which relates to trade, but also other chapters, rules of law and so on, which also benefit the more appropriate business and investment climate in those countries, to work quite efficiently.
we in this house talk endlessly about the increase in world population, the effects of climate change, increase in biofuel demand and the increasing demand for western eating habits, yet we have decreased agricultural output and, due to decoupling, provide no incentive to produce food.
the european schools were set up to ensure that the children of the european institutions’ staff – who are required to live and work abroad, in a different cultural environment – have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can be reintegrated into a school in their country of origin at any time.
however, the fact that the eu wishes to harmonise the ibns among the participating member states at a time when the euro is failing, the very production of the report, which aims solely to sustain what is in essence the collapsing myth of the euro, is a sheer waste of taxpayers’ money.
it is a crucially important sector since, in addition to furthering the integration and development of less developed regions, it manages to combine growth with ethical and sustainable development in the eu’s member states.
the resolution proposes that tourism focuses on engaging further with cultural, historical, environmental and sport sectors and also suggests harmonising recognition of tourist industry qualifications by member states, which will encourage further eu-wide mobility of workers.
with all sympathy to those who are living in least developed countries to whom access to water can be a daily struggle, we can not afford to create a whole infrastructure in order to promote the eu and its climate change policy.
it is vital we now use this trade policy framework of human rights, labour and environmental standards, fair trade and policy coherence for development in upcoming trade negotiations and ensure these commitments are followed through.
and i would like these investments to be increasingly innovative and to serve the ambitions that the european union has developed elsewhere, particularly in the field of energy supply from alternative energy sources and the improvement of mobility networks within the southern part of the euro area and within the european union member countries: bulgaria, romania and others, where additional efforts in the field of mobility need to be made.
quite apart from the dubious wisdom of drilling for hydrocarbons on a planet whose temperature is increasing far too fast and in countries which have huge resources of renewable energies, this is a challenge the european union cannot ignore.
i note the speech of cyprus’s new energy minister, praxoula antoniadou kyriakou at the energy council last week, and i welcome her commitment to the opening of the energy chapter for turkey, which cyprus blocked in 2007. but i note too that exploratory drilling has begun.
will he seek to extend the mandate of the european central bank, perhaps to add the pursuit of sustainable growth to the goal of price stability?
we hear much talk of the commission's environmental concerns and priorities, and yet we, our staff, and the press corps had to come all the way to strasbourg, as we do 12 times a year, to hear a speech that you could have made in brussels.
the payments are taken from an unused eerp energy project budget line which is unrelated to the funding required for management of migration flows.
it makes the eerp energy project line look like a hidden reserve intended for other purposes and in an audit would set alarm bells ringing.
we all know about the waste of food and we have talked about the food that is being wasted throughout europe.
marking 20 years since the rio earth summit of 1992, this is a timely opportunity to assess our approach to international dialogues on the environment and development.
firstly, nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is an essential part of the energy mix.
to suggest that they are not sustainable development is disproportionate.
mr president, for some years now climate realists like me have struggled to understand what lies behind the man-made global warming hoax which will be further exploited at rio+20.
it has handed carbon traders and wind factory profiteers a taxpayer-funded blank cheque.
but none of the above explains the hitherto puzzling role of big oil and neo-con foundations in funding the environmentalist protest groups which have led the climate-change and anti-nuclear propaganda offensives.
this gap allows those who will profit from gas fracking to say that we have no choice but to exploit this environmentally disastrous energy source.
climate change never was about drowning polar bears.
but global governance through scare stories about man-made global warming has fallen flat.
no one knows what sustainable development really means – and who would want unsustainable development anyway?
in scotland right now we have set targets of 100% energy from renewables by 2020. the scottish government has stated that it will not allow new nuclear power stations to be built, but rather it will race ahead with a mad dash for renewables based mainly around onshore and offshore wind, tidal and wave energy.
in july the department of energy in whitehall revealed that rising bills have pushed 5.5 million households into fuel poverty.
nor can such a policy be described as sustainable when wind turbines only provide energy for around 22% of their working life.
− i have supported the calls made in this important resolution as i strongly believe that a two-state solution is the only way to achieve a sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict.
we must ensure that all eu governments play an active role and continue to give the strongest support to the quartet and the high representatives in their efforts to re-launch the peace process to reach a sustainable conclusion regarding this conflict.
− in general, we oppose the eu green agenda of climate alarmism and global governance by environmentalism.
specifically, we oppose: rio20+ and the eu deciding uk water policy; rio20+ and the eu negotiating on the uk’s behalf over pollution of the ocean, maritime biodiversity, etc; the eu dictating rules of arctic oil exploration, or development of tar sands or oil shale; the eu dictating rules of global targets on renewable energy; the eu dictating rules of nuclear policy; the eu dictating rules of organic farming policy for anyone; concurring with the imf, world bank, un hltf, etc.
; the eu impinging on the sovereign state of brazil in management of its own resources; the ‘tax on financial transactions’ via unfccc or any other route; eu tax policy or its shift from labour to ‘resource use’; large-scale geoengineering by the eu; the eu’s view on patents on life forms and living processes; the eu’s view on an international environmental court; the eu view on procedures for environmental disaster or with international status for climate refugees.
− i welcome this resolution on the rio earth summit, which urges the host nation brazil to make a clear commitment to protect the amazon forest and stem criminal harassment of representatives of civil society pursuing environmental protection.
only one member state has proposed a phasing-out of nuclear reactors since the incident at fukushima and i cannot support any policy that would see this implemented across the eu while nuclear power currently provides around 30% of the eu’s energy supply and employs thousands of workers across europe.
listening to this debate today it is almost as if this debate has been going on inside a padded cell that is the european parliament, as people compete for who can be the most stupid; who can waste the maximum amount of taxpayers’ money.
mr president, i welcome this road map outline and i hope that additional detail is coherent, substantial and sustainable.
all of it: that includes banks, backstops, greece, firepower, flexibility, sustainability and growth.
my point is not to rehearse all of the manifold failings of that system: the wanton damage it does to developing countries, in africa in particular; the ecological cataclysm that it has caused in europe with the felling of hedgerows; the encouraging of pesticides and chemical fertilizers; or indeed the way in which it penalises the poor both through their taxes and through higher prices.
article 4 concerns the taxation of aviation fuel, which must conform to the provisions of council directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products.
public procurement is a key market-based instrument which is a vital factor in fostering sustainable employment and can also be geared towards innovative solutions to environmental and social concerns.
with public procurement accounting for approximately 17 % of the eu’s gdp, if we simplify the current rules we could give smes a genuine opportunity to come forward with innovative ideas which not only promote economic recovery but also sustainable job creation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
on energy efficiency, for example, searching for the lowest price is not always the answer; nor is forcing authorities to purchase individual products, which individually appear efficient but collectively may not be.
i hope the commission will help them now by giving serious consideration to investment in things like broadband, cheaper energy – such as from renewable sources – and transport links, which will help these people to trade and to prosper.
the impact on the regional economy at the moment is very severe because of the economic climate.
in the current financial climate, smes across europe are operating in these tough times, so those small businesses face various pressures – not least, difficulty in accessing credit.
however they are really struggling right now with the economic downturn, and although i appreciate the small business test and all the efforts under the procurement directive and such initiatives, they actually still do not help directly the micro- and small businesses in this current climate.
mr president, i am happy to have voted for this report, as it gives us the opportunity to make sure that greater emphasis is put on social and environmental standards when member states award contracts under public procurement rules.
we want all procurement rules to drive up standards and encourage sustainable, inclusive growth.
to achieve that, the lowest-cost-only option needs to be the exception to the rule and social, economic and environmental criteria must become the norm.
− i fully endorse the eu’s policy of reducing emissions and support directive 2000/25/ec.
a contract should be awarded to the proposal offering the most advantageous economic, social and environmental terms rather than being based solely on the ‘lowest price’ criterion.
parliament urges the eu once again, therefore, to make the fight against tax havens and tax evasion its utmost priority, while also promoting alternative sources of development finance, for example through the introduction of a financial transaction tax; likewise, urges the eu to give developing countries more help with tax reforms, thereby supporting the establishment of effective, efficient, fair and sustainable tax systems, which should have the effect of reducing poverty and aid dependency.
the emissions trading scheme and the large combustion plants directive have caused alcan to face serious competitivity problems.
i and many others warned about the knock-on effects of ill-thought-out legislation such as this, but our concerns were brushed aside by the greens and over-zealous environmentalists whose fixation on reducing carbon emissions made them deaf to all of the arguments about economic and environmental damage.
we warned of the risks to businesses, we warned of the risks to jobs and we warned about the serious effect that it would have on the environment caused by carbon leakage.
employers like alcan and arcelormittal are at breaking point, and one by one they are going to relocate to other parts of the world where they are not choked by the same cumbersome environmental legislation that we have here in europe.
of course we want to reduce carbon emissions, of course we want to avoid carbon leakage but we do not do that by exporting jobs and by exporting companies to other parts of the world.
we do nothing but export jobs and we export the emissions along with them.
of course we can check that all the rules the commissioner referred to are being adhered to, but we also know that in this same locality we have the huge development of offshore wind and carbon capture and storage, and i was much impressed by what isabelle durant said.
all over europe member states are making painful but necessary cuts to their budgets; they are aiming to end waste and make their finances sustainable.
− i voted against the budget resolution because in the present climate i could not vote for a 5.2% increase.
i think that the parliament now has a strong position to take forward into negotiations to reach a sustainable and satisfactory conclusion to this report, which will allow for greater transparency, accountability and sound management of funds.
– mr president, when a delegation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety went to the european medicines agency a few weeks ago, we were told that this issue is a top priority for the medicines agency: 25 000 eu citizens are dying every year from conditions which used to be treated with antibiotics which are no longer effective.
we are also revising the common agricultural policy, and we need to look at more sustainable methods of farming as well.
there is nothing wrong with some appropriate, moderate and sustainable immigration, but the uk is adding over one million people to its net population every four to five years.
last time and the time before we got through about 20 questions and there were about 50, or at least 40, of you in the chamber, so it is only fair that those of you who are not going to be called should be told at about 11 o’clock; otherwise it is going to waste your time.
in the case of england, farmers have embraced agri-environment schemes, with over 68% of england’s utilisable agricultural area covered by schemes such as the entry level stewardship scheme.
i want to support and back up my colleague, mr karim, on the subject of environmental schemes.
there are many people in britain who have land in environmental schemes.
− what has been proposed for the greening part has no impact on the contract for environmental measures that farmers now have in the rural development programme.
the 7% is not the 7% of greening, it is one of the 7% measures which are aimed at the ecological infrastructure at farm level, that is to say areas, parts of parcels which are kept with vegetation other than agricultural production.
but i said there is no link because these greening measures are not contractual, they are not multiannual, they are annual and the commitment made by a farmer under a contract for agri-environmental measures will remain in force until the end of 2013. after 2013, if the member state decides to continue these measures, the farmer may continue to benefit from them.
but once the farmer, with the help of this agri-environmental programme, has, for example, planted, maintained areas, ends of plots or even grassed strips, these areas will count for 7%.
it is, and how is it going to help the environment?
one on capping and another on the 7% of the ecological infrastructure.
starting in 2014, we are proposing not only that these areas be eligible but we are even encouraging farmers to maintain them, because alongside the productive arable area, all these areas, these ends of the plots play an important role for biodiversity.
the three measures we have proposed for this part of greening, namely the maintenance of permanent grazing, the diversification of crops on a holding and this 7% ecological infrastructure on a holding, can be applied throughout the european union.
- mrs hassi, this is a typical situation to which the agri-environmental measures of the rural development programme can be applied, measures which allow member states to deal with a specific issue in a region by encouraging farmers to adopt agricultural practices adapted to that specific situation.
crop rotation, for example, or crop diversification, as proposed, would also enable farmers to reduce the use of chemicals and thus the amount of waste.
but the coastal member states can deal with this specifically with the agri-environmental measures that are provided for in the rural development programme.
i was, in fact, the person who drew up the environment committee’s opinion and was not able to vote for it because it was highjacked by non-scientifically-validated concerns about pesticides, which were knee-jerk and disproportionate.
such decisions should be taken by member state governments based upon domestic research, economic need, climate and exportation.
− i voted for this report on participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community which aims to continue supporting r&d actions in this field.
i support the report, which adopts an improved budget for the fight against poverty with the important objective of decreasing the number of poor people in the eu by 20 million by 2020. in addition, it is very important that eu funds are better used to address these issues, as part of an integrated strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
mr president, the lisbon strategy’s aim in 2000 was to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
but if, as i suspect, the commission knows that it cannot, why does it waste time with this posturing?
i welcome the commission’s determination to get an early agreement on the energy efficiency directive.
the new innovative renewable technologies offer the greatest potential of all for creating jobs.
the resolution uses the eu’s climate change policies in the same sentence as competition as though they were compatible.
and that is a pity because global warming emissions rose by 6% last year.
the barclay study, funded by arch-climate change sceptics, has just concluded that in practice the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were right all along and temperatures are indeed growing as predicted.
but just when we need action, we are going to get kyoto ii, which is going to be weaker than kyoto i, and 85% of the world’s emissions are not going to be covered by it.
global warming is being forced ahead by population growth and demand for energy by all those extra people: 200 000 extra people on the planet every day.
it is clear that the nations of the world do not care very much about the more vulnerable ones, about protecting those at most risk from climate change, or indeed about passing on the costs of dealing with climate change to future generations, but maybe self-interest will start to prevail.
we look at the predictions of the international energy agency, of oil prices within five years going up to usd 150 a barrel as a standard.
that, i think, is double what the commission was predicting when it carried out impact assessments for the climate change package just a few years ago.
no country is changing its energy mix faster than china; no country is trying to move away from coal, develop global warming, improve its energy efficiency, develop an emissions trading scheme more than china.
madam president, one thing we do know about climate is that it is a pretty odd old thing.
we also know there has been no significant change in climate over the last 6 000 years and we also know that most scientific organisations have confirmed that there has been no significant statistical global warming in the last 15 years?
with the climate summit coming up, i would like to affirm our support for the key message which emerged from the g8 and g20 in advance of the 17th conference of the parties (cop17), namely that the conclusions of the summit should be balanced, fair and credible, while at the same time maintaining and strengthening the multilateral rules-based response to climate change.
i fully support the need to build on the foundations of last year's cancun agreements, particularly the full realisation of the green climate fund which, of course, is crucial to many potential outcomes in durban.
yet that is precisely what this parliament will present in durban with the resolution which was recently adopted in the environment committee.
mr cameron, please do not waste any more british taxpayers’ money.
given our current economic climate, i think this is poorly timed.
it contributes to the understanding and preservation of our natural environment, as well as highlighting europe’s rich and diverse historical roots.
mr president, the markets have withdrawn their confidence in the eurozone, the bond spreads are widening, our economies are contracting, the doom is almost upon us and here we are solemnly talking about these proposals massively to increase our debt and deficit and pour more money into this climate change project.
this development is even more worrying against the background of a steady overall growth in freight transport of around 2.3% annually: the railways sector has been unable to profit from an otherwise favourable environment.
moreover, it can play a key role in supporting the eu’s goals to reduce co2 emissions and make its economy more resource efficient.
the european commission in its 2011 white paper therefore rightly attributes a major role to rail transport in achieving the goals of a more sustainable and greener transport system for europe.
− i voted for this resolution, being convinced that the eu has to go to durban with coherent and robust proposals to tackle climate change.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because it is vital that the eu leads the way at the next un climate summit in durban.
this will ensure that the fight continues to extend the co2-cutting kyoto protocol beyond 2012. i supported this resolution because, like previous climate resolutions adopted by the european parliament, it states that the eu should be aiming above the current 20% greenhouse gas reduction target for 2020. this would be in the eu’s own economic interest and would compliment the eu’s strategy for growths and jobs.
there should also be an agreement reached to establish a green climate fund, which would offer support to developing countries.
− action on climate change is one of the eu’s strongest policy records and a key reason for european citizens to support european integration.
the environment does not respect national borders – so only by working together can we tackle the urgent problem of climate change and set an example for the rest of the world.
it also calls for all parties to close the ‘gigatonne gap’ between the reduction in emissions they have committed to, and the reduction they have actually achieved – crucial to the objective of keeping global warming below 2ºc.
the vote highlighted the weakness of the uk’s conservative meps on climate change.
after trying and failing to water down the text and remove support for a 30% emissions reduction target – in defiance of their own government’s policy – conservative meps refused to support the resolution calling for action on climate change.
i and my labour colleagues understand the importance of tackling climate change in our own lifetime, and so we are delighted to have voted for this resolution.
it is from this base that a significant proportion of global trade can actually take place and, due to this close relationship, vast levels of global wealth are constantly being formed in a well-regulated environment, which is rule-based and transparent for all.
the eu-us partnership is also essential to dealing with global climate change and energy security, particularly making sure that countries from which we draw our energy supplies are stable and secure in the middle east, south america, africa and elsewhere, as well as the economic challenges posed by the rising phenomena of brics, the economic powers of today and the future, and in particular the challenge posed by massive china, both militarily and economically.
the pretext of course would be the report of the international atomic energy agency, which concluded that iran was indeed developing nuclear weapons.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the open internet and net neutrality in europe by herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000243/2011 – b7-0641/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on the open internet and net neutrality in europe by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, jürgen creutzmann, heide rühle, adam bielan, cornelis de jong, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000261/2011 – b7-0653/2011).
− madam president, it is a privilege to be working once again with my distinguished colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy, because we had a very fruitful partnership in the reform of the telecoms package.
my colleagues will remember that, from the side of the consumers’ and users’ rights reforms, together with the basic principles in the framework directive we spent a huge amount of time and energy crafting amendments to the existing telecoms framework to deal with some of the potential issues that might arise in a framework in which broadband speeds, access to much greater bandwidth of communications and ability to offer different ranges and types of services on the internet might bring about the sort of anti-competitive behaviour which would restrict the rights of consumers to access and distribute content and services of their choice.
the next item is the report by jan březina, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision concerning the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012 – 2013) (com(2011)0072 – c7-0077/2011 – 2011/0046(nle)) (a7-0360/2011).
that money will go towards integrating maritime policy around the development of short sea shipping, the detection of illegal fishing, the integration of sea-basin strategies and maritime surveillance and, importantly, protection of the marine environment.
i know thought is being given to discards, but after 38 years of waste, will our stocks recover?
last week, i presented the commission with details of an innovative project being launched by marine scientists in northern ireland, who are about to begin work on an ecosystem approach to management within the irish sea.
by contrast, the conservation credit scheme that is operating in scotland has government, industry and environmental ngos all working together to devise and implement successful management measures which, among other things, are radically reducing the wastage of discards.
i follow my fellow colleague, mr kelly, who talked about discards – a huge and utter waste of a valuable material.
− i could not support amendments 34, 35d, 36, 31, 32, 33 to the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities, because while these amendments appear to represent a budget cut of eur 2.46 billion from spending on nuclear programmes, in fact the money is already budgeted and the amendments would merely redirect the money away from nuclear research to the green agenda.
instead of limiting the waste of taxpayers’ money, this amendment would simply waste it elsewhere.
− i could not support amendments 34, 35d, 36, to the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities, because while these amendments appear to represent a budget cut of eur 2.46 billion from spending on nuclear programmes, in fact the money is already budgeted and the amendments would merely redirect the money away from nuclear research to the green agenda.
instead of limiting the waste of taxpayers’ money, this amendment would simply waste it elsewhere.
regardless of the fact that some member states have decided to phase out the use of nuclear energy, it is important to continue nuclear r&d at european level in order to enhance the safety of nuclear fission, to operate existing facilities, waste management, dismantling and decommissioning processes and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine, as well as to enhance nuclear security (nuclear safeguards, non-proliferation, combating illicit trafficking and nuclear forensics).
− i voted for this resolution and encourage georgia to pursue reforms that improve the business climate, its tax collection capacity and its contractual dispute settlement mechanism, while promoting corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.
this situation leads to the loss of both short and long-term social and economic opportunities and to negative effects on food security and environmental protection.
i think that the energy behind that and behind the single market forum contributed to this.
− labour meps backed this lengthy report as it includes important and positive proposals, including the importance of the european commission's analysis of growth focusing on long-term sustainable growth.
the priority measures that the commission will come up with in the coming months in the single market act should focus on the need to drive sustainable and innovative economic growth, hand in hand with initiatives taken by member states and the business community to boost growth in the eu at a time of economic recession.
the small business act principle must underpin all initiatives taken in the framework of the single market, to create a small business-friendly environment for our enterprises to thrive on the markets, accompanied by sound and fair regulation which does not create additional unnecessary burden on smes which are the core of our potential for growth in europe.
not surprisingly, when we look at the issue of sustainability and we recognise that these fishermen are fishing in waters which are described as ‘fully-exploited’ or ‘over-exploited’, there are questions here about the whole sustainability aspect.
i think we can have confidence that the commissioner will do her very best to negotiate a new arrangement which meets the criteria of sustainability and the social requirements referred to in the declaration.
− i voted against this report in which the international nuclear fusion research project iter will get eur 1.3 billion for 2012 and 2013. this joint research project with the eu, the us, china, the russian federation, india, japan and south korea, aims to show that fusion energy is scientifically and technologically feasible.
− i voted for this report, which calls on the commission to pay particular attention to tackling unjustified ntbs – which are a barrier to trade – while recognising the importance of legitimate public policy aims in relation to human rights, environmental rules and social standards, for example in gmo laws.
the next item is the report by andres perello rodriguez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2001/112/ec relating to fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption (com(2010)0490 – c7-0278/2010 – 2010/0254(cod)) (a7-0224/2011).
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by bill newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 648/2004 as regards the use of phosphates and other phosphorous compounds in household laundry detergents (com(2010)0597 – c7-0356/2010 – 2010/0298(cod)) (a7-0246/2011).
it came to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and we discussed it and thought it was a good step forward – thank you, commission, for the proposal – but why not throw in dishwashers as well, as they also use phosphates in their detergents?
the new danish environment minister is a green and immediately sent a signal saying that he was reversing danish policy.
we look for all of these to be included in the economic reading of the scoreboard, most notably in relation to employment, drivers of productivity and the role of energy.
in order for markets to survive they must develop and advance their products in line with environmental targets.
the environmental and health impacts of the new chemicals that will be needed to replace phosphates in dishwasher detergents are not yet fully assessed.
phosphates are a kind of fertiliser, thus disrupting the natural biodiversity of bodies of water, and have a huge detrimental effect on aquatic life.
despite my initial concerns over the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this matter, such as the short compliance timeline envisaged for its implementation, following the recent negotiations with the council i can now agree that this ban on phosphates usage could also be extended to dishwater detergents, with suitable derogations.
realistic and reasonable limits have now been set at 0.5 grams per dose, paving the way for manufacturers to develop more compact and concentrated products to the benefit of our environment.
from a sustainability point of view, the stocks we are accessing are already overfished, so not only are we heavily subsidising jobs, but we are doing so while exporting ecologically unsustainable fishing practices.
there are successful fisheries’ conservation schemes around the world in new zealand, in norway, in iceland, in the falkland islands but all of them are based on giving skippers a sense of property so that they treat fisheries as a renewable resource.
surely having created this ecological catastrophe in our own waters, we should now draw back before we inflict it on others.
the report sensibly suggests that our approach should be to support further progress towards deep democracy and to support sustainable social and economic development in our neighbouring countries.
− the european union produces high quality fruit juices which contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are manufactured according to the sustainability standards supported by our laws.
without seeking to question any form of import policy, this report favours the consumption of local products, those which do not have to be transported over vast distances, generating co2 emissions, which are produced under social and labour conditions which are acceptable under community law and which are manufactured according to the food safety principles established by the eu.
this is not a matter of european protectionism, but reflects the continued pursuit of sustainability in all sectors of our economy.
the overall quality of a product can also be measured by its ethical quality, its ecological quality and its social quality.
− i welcome today’s vote on this report which will go some way towards reducing harm to the environment.
too much algae causes an imbalance in the ecosystem which can result in ecosystem problems such as dead fish.
− i am very pleased that this report on limiting the use of phosphates in household detergents in order to combat eutrophication of water bodies in the natural environment has been passed by parliament.
eutrophication, which causes the accelerated growth of bacteria, algae and other plant life in a water body, can be a serious environmental problem, killing higher sea life and plants and upsetting the balance of local ecosystems.
− i voted against this resolution on the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) because of economic, legal, environmental and moral reasons.
− one of the principal aims of the european union is to promote european values in the world and to set an example to the world on issues such as the rule of law, social justice and the environment.
evaluations of the agreement have shown it to cause a net economic loss to the eu, whilst failing to aid the development of the fisheries sector in morocco and failing to prevent over-exploitation and promote sustainable fishing.
madam president, the european maritime safety agency, which was set up in the wake of the erika oil tanker incident, carries out an important role in pollution response and should be commended for its work in this area, which was emphasised by my good colleague, peter van dalen.
mr president, a thriving and sustainable transport sector is hugely important to the uk and europe as a whole, but having the right transport policy is essential to ensure competitiveness, future economic growth and much needed jobs across the eu.
ensuring that future growth in the sector is sustainable is a major challenge, and we should discuss ways to encourage and assist industry in reaching those objectives.
it seems to only offer one solution to improve the sustainability of the transport sector, and that is legislation, legislation or more legislation.
we must also take into consideration the efforts made by many sectors to reduce their carbon footprint.
the intelligent energy europe (iee) programme and the european agency for competitiveness and innovation are outstanding examples of this in the field of combating climate change, so the commission will understand the concern of members of this house when we learn of plans to discontinue a programme which encourages citizens to use energy more wisely and to help the union to meet its kyoto commitments.
commissioner oettinger was suggesting yesterday that intelligent energy europe might go into the horizon 2020, but we want to know whether there will be a dedicated programme still.
as ms carvalho said, the european local energy assistance facility has leveraged huge amounts of money from a very small investment to help businesses become energy efficient, to retrofit social housing, to improve public transport, to design smart energy buildings and to connect renewable energy production into electricity grids.
if that programme were to disappear it would be a real loss to a huge variety of decentralised activities to promote renewable energy and energy saving.
i think at heart the question that members are asking is this: has the commission lost its way when it comes to renewable energy?
why is it planning to pump money into gas distribution networks for the benefit of companies that are already making billions in profits, rather than pumping money into the vision that it still professes of a renewable energy europe, one where we can meet our commitment of cutting carbon by 80% by 2050?
although competition policy has made great progress in many areas, failures still remain with regard to price transparency, the food supply change and energy prices.
madam president, good competition policy should ensure the right environment for an innovative business culture which, in turn, will yield sustainable economic growth.
one area where we must move cautiously is in the development of an increasingly complex regulatory environment, especially for global financial services, where reducing risk needs to be balanced with damaging our global competitiveness.
unfortunately, all that the european globalisation adjustment fund does is to encourage this inertia – not adapting to market conditions, not taking advantage of global supply chains and asking for more taxpayers’ money when that money would be better returned to member states to be invested in sustainable jobs.
moreover, i believe the suggestion of it having an anti-pollution role is too controversial and thus cannot be supported.
madam president, this draft scoreboard for surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances is unnecessary and a waste of this parliament’s time.
the report is far too ambitious, and unrealistic targets have been set for reducing the number of road deaths and reducing co2 emissions from road transport and shipping.
however, we are currently operating in a starkly different economic climate compared to that of 2007 and so it is only appropriate that the eu strategy for central asia be reviewed and updated accordingly.
− i voted for this report which points out that there is an acute need to take action in towns, as the population in conurbations is increasing, which will lead to increasing traffic, noise and air pollution.
in order to address these problems, towns should establish sustainable mobility plans, and financial support for projects should be made dependent upon the submission of such plans.
under the principle of subsidiarity, towns will, of course, decide themselves what urban projects to plan, but these projects will have to comply with the standards of european transport policy, meaning that they will have to provide for efficient multi-modal passenger and goods logistics chains which reduce not only traffic in towns but also environmental impact.
− i voted for this resolution, which underlines the strong political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bi- and multilateral relations with central asian countries in all areas of cooperation, such as stability, security and sustainable development of the region, trade and economic relations, energy and transport links, reinforcement of dialogue on universal values such as democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and common challenges and threats, including border management and combating drug and human trafficking.
these vast but comparatively underdeveloped moderate muslim countries have crucial energy and mineral (including uranium) reserves that remain central to the eu’s energy security: turkmenistan provides an outlet for gas flow across the caspian sea and into the european continent.
i strongly agree with the kiil-nielsen focus on environmental policy – in uzbekistan, for example, decades of soviet environmental mismanagement for purposes of cotton growing have damaged the aral sea, and in mountainous tajikistan, soil erosion through deforestation for agricultural development has led to desertification.
a good and sustainable water management policy is indispensible for development in the region.
as such, we call on the tunisian authorities to carry on reforming the security forces and ending any climate of impunity.